ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 8th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. And before we go any further, I have a request from three MPs: ODS Club, TOP 09 and KDU requested a 30-minute break. This means that I declare a break at the request of three clubs, ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, for a duration of 30 minutes. We'll continue at 10:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u2	Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, it is 10:30 a.m. and we will continue to discuss the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This meeting was convened by President Markéta Pekarová Adamová following Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which she declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday 25 January of this year. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Michal Zuna. Does anyone else have a suggestion, please? If that is not the case, I will put in charge and we will vote on whether Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Michal Zuna will be the verifiers of this meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number one, 139 Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, for 133, abstained from the vote. The motion was accepted. I can therefore say that we have designated the verifiers of the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Michal Zuna. I hereby declare that, before the opening of the meeting, the Kolář, the Member of the Rudolf Salvetr, the reasons for not taking part in the sitting, the Ondřej for the medical leave, the Munzar for the Lacina, the Tomáš for the illness, the Markéta for the Hájek, the Malá for the Oulehlová, the Rais for the illness, Mrs Lenka Dražilová, the Pastuchová for the Kaňkovský, the Jiří for the Zdeněk, the Válková for the illness, the reasons for the illness, the Milan for the illness, the Wenzl for the illness, the David for the Šimek, the Barbora for the Urbanová, the Helena for the Feranec, the Pražák for the illness, the reasons for the illness, the Martin for the Romana, the Vít Jáč the illness and the illness, the Karel for the illness, the Jiří for the illness, the Nina for the illness, the Nováková for the Dvořák and the illness, the reasons for the illness, the reasons for the illness, the Richterová for the illness, the Štolpa for the illness, the Kašník for the illness and the illness. Furthermore, members of the government apologize for the following: Petr Fiala from 10.00 to 11.30 for working reasons, Ivan Bartoš from 10.00 to 13.00 working reasons, Martin Baxa from 17.00 to 19.00 working reasons, Mikuláš Bek from 10.00 working reasons, Minister Jana Černochová from 10.00 to 16.00 working reasons, Anna Hubáčková working reasons, Helena Langšádlová until 12.00 working reasons, Zdeněk Nekula - working reasons, Jozef Síkela - foreign trip and Minister Michal Šalomoun for health reasons. Mr Jiří Mašek also apologizes for his illness, and then Mr Richter apologizes for his professional reasons, further apologizes for her quarantine of Mrs Klára Kocmanová and also asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský from 10.00 to 11.30 hours for his work. So many apologies. The honourable Member, honourable Members, by decision of the President on 20 January, by decision No 12, on the basis of the Government's proposal, extended the state of legislative emergency until 18 February of this year. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House press, which it approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a shortened hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a government bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of COVID-19 disease and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court, published under No. 4/2022 Coll., et seq. Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, House print 127. By decision number 13, the President decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing and ordered this House press 127 to the Committee on Health and set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution by Tuesday 25 January t. r. no later than 13:00. [[10.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am now opening the debate and I have so far signed up for this debate with the priority right of President Tomio Okamura and President Radim Fiala. Please, Mr President, the debate is open and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, Petr Fiala's government here today presents an amendment to the pandemic law. The content of this government proposal is an unprecedented attack on citizens' rights and freedoms. That is why the members of the SPD will not support this amendment. Freedom is not only a constitutional right, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is a natural human right, with which we are born regardless of constitution, laws or decrees. Freedom of movement, freedom of personal, freedom of opinion, freedom to work, but even to do business are rights that the State should restrict and regulate only in the most serious cases in accordance with the Constitution. However, here we have the problem that the government is trying to limit these constitutions guaranteed by freedom and rights only by law, because the Charter of Rights and Freedoms clearly states that citizens have the right to enter into business, the right to private and social life and, for example, the right to education. That is why it is in the Constitution, in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which is an integral part of the Constitution, so that there can be no totalitarian will. So that there couldn't be some small group of people or politicians who couldn't just control the lives of citizens the way they wanted to. If there is a situation that is so disastrous for the Czech Republic that it requires certain intervention by the state, it may be some big flood, but it may also be some big epidemic, it may be some kind of terrorist attack on some sort of strategic nuclear power plant, so of course for these and similar purposes there is a so-called emergency situation that the government can declare, and there is also a control of the House, which after 30 days then has to discuss and agree whether it extends or not. That's right. It is because we - or we should be a democratic country, where the country's owner is a citizen and not different elitists and not some politicians who just have in themselves that want to conduct like puppets to other citizens and order them what they can and can't. And now we're in this situation right here, this so-called pandemic law, where House President Pekarová Adamová from TOP 09, who isn't even here today and is somewhere abroad I suspect, so she said in the Prima Party on Sunday, and she admitted it completely to the fair that the government's five-wheelers, that means ODS, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and KDU-ČSL, want to enforce the pandemic law because they don't want it to be an emergency. Or she admitted that the government actually wants to circumvent the constitution by wanting the possibility and authority to restrict constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens in an unconstitutional way. That means, basically, they flipped over - Petr Fiala's government flipped over to the emergency... in this pandemic law about 95 percent of all restrictions and measures that are possible under emergency conditions. This is normal, it is simply an unprecedented attack on the rights and freedoms of citizens and they are really totalitarian manners. In this way, direct control of citizens' rights and freedoms and restrict them, for example, to social life, to the right to do business, whether they can make a wedding in so many people and so many people, if a funeral can be in so many people and so many people, it takes a really strong stomach for any politician to propose this at all. And today, these totalitarian manners are exactly what the government's five-calibers have in their arrogance. We as the SPD have freedom and democracy in our name. Freedom and direct democracy to talk about freedom and democracy in a broader sense. And we're just gonna be here, unlike that government five-wheeler that, by getting 108 votes here, they obviously liked the power, we're just gonna keep you from adopting these totalitarian laws. As far as the pandemic law is concerned, I would like to point out once again that it is not acceptable to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the ordinary law of the Constitution. That is why we have the constitution here, and the constitution can be changed not by simple majority, but it can be changed by the fact that in the House you must have 120 votes of Members, the simple majority of the government is no longer sufficient, that in the Senate it must be two-thirds of the senators so that it is not a simple majority, and that is why it defends itself in the Czech Republic and in other democratic countries from which current government. But you're trying to get around it completely, even under an incredible argument that you're saying you want to be ready for the fall wave since November. Well, you're lying to yourself because you yourself, and witnessing it, and proof of that is this extraordinary meeting, you yourself propose this law in a so-called legislative emergency, therefore in the same legislative emergency, if you were to think the way you say it, if it were true, there's nothing stopping you from suggesting it in August, perhaps in September, when you propose it in such an accelerated way, in the fastest possible way that it should be accepted. Why do you propose restrictions on the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens now in February, now in January, in January you proposed, now it is February, so why do you suggest it, when at the same time Western countries like Britain, Ireland, Spain and others are relaxing, Austria, and, on the contrary, after evaluating this omicron they are trying to return to normal lives, because it is normal, normal is the life that was here two years ago, and not the life that is here now. And I know that some government politicians, perhaps everyone, liked it, simply limited the lives of citizens, commanded what they can and cannot. But that's clearly a totalitarian mannerist, and I have to say, some of these bans that you present in the ordinary law, even the communists didn't dare. And I'm still reluctant to use that word, but I'm gonna use it to think that this government has fascinating tendencies, which I think is the right word. This means really completely controlling the lives of citizens, to which citizens, however, have the right under the Constitution. So for these very reasons, we cannot support this. [[10.50 hours]] At the same time, even the government coalition's argument cannot stand here, and that it is necessary to protect the health of citizens, because of course, we all agree to this in order to protect the health of citizens. But that's what the Public Health Act is for, that's a valid law. We have a crisis law that allows soldiers, for example, to be called for help. That means the legislation's here. And I'm sure we all agree with that, and the SPD certainly, I don't know how you do that, of course, protecting the health of citizens is the first thing to do. But you also have different words and actions because it is under the ODS and TOP 09 that availability, for example, of dental care has deteriorated. Today, when you look or talk to people, so many of them are missing a tooth, because they simply don't have it because it is your governments that have allowed you to privatize dental care completely, but in that way - no one has anything against private doctors - in such a way that basically even relatively basic dental care has become unavailable for a number of citizens, therefore they have no teeth. So where you should protect health and care for health and where you should focus as a government, so you don't care about it, you don't have any suggestions, and vice versa, where it's redundant, but it would give you more powers and power to control people, so you're taking your initiative there. In this context, it's really trivial that for all of January, and you've already had it ready and you've said that you've been ready for a year, you've said that your five-calices are ready to rule both programmingly and staffly, it turns out that the deed has escaped, so you're actually - we've had almost four months after the election, and if I'm specific for the whole of January, you haven't actually proposed a single law here to help people across the board. For people to have more security, justice, and more money. You didn't suggest anything. Your government hasn't proposed anything. But... you didn't suggest anything in this matter to help people. But you've been promoting two laws as a priority all along. So here we need to see what the priorities of this Petr Fiala government, the five-year-old, are. And the citizens may call it a five-blinder, but of course I'll leave it at the five-calice to leave it at that political level. So you're the first to enforce the pandemic law so-called, which is otherwise called an emergency for an infinite period of time. Yes, the fact that, based on the pressure of the SPD and the pressure of the citizens, you're simply putting amendments in there, that it's like until November, and then that some of these restrictions are suddenly being cut off, well, that's proof of how incompetent your government is. That you are proposing a fundamental law here to restrict the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens by ordinary law, which in itself is unconstitutional, of course, but I will get to that, but at the same time it is necessary to talk about what your priorities are. Your government hasn't designed a single solution all this time to increase energy, food, and so on. Let's go abroad, to the V4. Since February, Polák have proposed zero VAT on basic foods, such as bread and so on in Poland. They had 5 percent VAT on them, and now from February they are proposing zero VAT to relieve people from having such expensive food. That is why many Czech citizens from the border countries also go shopping to Poland. For example, Maďar... They have also reduced VAT on artificial Polák to farmers now, because this is also reflected in food prices. Hungary. The Hungarian government has put down mortgage rates, and has put up fuel prices, as well as some of the food. So the Hungarian and Polish government of V4, these are countries in a region like us, with a similar standard of living, they spew one specific idea at a time to help their citizens. Petr Fiala's government does not propose anything in this regard. Nothing at all. I think only this moment is for the immediate demise of the government. Because people pay overpriced bills, and the government doesn't even compare with neighbouring countries - and here I deliberately gave the specific examples to point out the total inactivity of this government, and you increased the number of ministers from 15 to 18, that you will not fit into one line here, that you are even in two rows, so you have divided your own super-standard smugglers, even because of the service for those three ministers will receive more than 70 workers for their advisors etc., it will cost more than 40 million crowns per year, so basically you already suck full slumbers, but you don't have time for citizens. And the highlight was, or is, when I read last week that you have one more, third priority for January, which you started working on instead of preparing proposals to help people solve the price increase, like the Polish and Hungarian government does. We have yet to read, you must have read many of you that the government has begun to work on the national cock competition. This means the priorities of this government at a time when energy and food are increasing sharply and people need help, for example. Polish and Hungarian governments are spewing one concrete solution after another to help their citizens, so your priority is the pandemic law, which you want to limit even more by the constitution guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens. The second priority for you is to push forward because you're afraid that you're going to fail in the next election, so you want to change that because you're afraid of succeeding next time. In this regard, of course, the president of the House Pekarová Adamová and the pirát has the greatest fear, that is TOP 09 and the Pirates. TOP 09 has long been balancing on a 5% threshold, respectively. under it. And to the pirát, after they've shown now, I've been told that voting preferences are falling steeply. So, of course, for these parties, the introduction of a correspondence election is basically such a rescue, because the correspondence option allows fraud and manipulation, which we see, for example, in Austria, even in France, it cancels it already and so on. And the third priority is that you want to look for a bird, a national bird. I think it's really... it's like this... Not that I've been in politics for a long time like many here, but I think it's the worst government I've had since 1989. It's powerless, people are already asking, "Where's the Prime Minister?" Where's Prime Minister Fiala? They're asking. It was customary for prime ministers to see and solve problems, but where is the Prime Minister every day? And I'm not saying that where, he's out here somewhere, and sometimes he says something, but the question, where is he, where's the leader?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u4	Mr. Chairman, I will answer you. The Prime Minister is excused properly for business reasons until 11:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u5	Yeah, but I don't think we're getting along right now. I was pointing out here that I'm not saying that he's not here in the Czech Republic or that he's not moving around. Now I don't know if we've gotten along, Madam Vice-President. Thank you for saying that here, but I guess we didn't listen to my speech, so don't be mad at me. I didn't mean literally where she is, I hope everyone here was following my speech. I say, where is, when the Prime Minister is supposed to be the leader, to be seen in solving everyday problems, I was talking about expensive, and you here right now, don't be mad at me, Madam Vice-President, you're evaluating this attendance here today. I don't know, then. So I'm talking here, I hope, for adult people who understand the context of my speech, but thank you. So where's the Prime Minister? Where's the Prime Minister in dealing with these everyday problems? I mean, you can't really see it at all. And really with the national cock contest where we learned that the Ministry of the Environment is already doing the preparation here, so I think that we really like the animals, I do too, but I think it's definitely not the topic that should be addressed right now. Now he needs to be dealt with so that people have to deal with the extreme upheaval that's coming. And you're just delaying it. But you're not going to delay the problem, because if you don't start dealing with it now, the problem will just grow. I'm pointing that out. And what you're doing here now under this pandemic law means that you're actually going to put it in an extraordinary meeting where you want to beat it with your hundred-eight, when it comes to constitutional rights and citizens' freedoms, I think it's really completely behind the edge of what I've ever seen in Czech politics. I've even heard here that the government, the government coalition, the government Members want to limit to such a serious proposal, where you want to restrict the constitutional rights of the SPD voters and others, essentially the whole republic, so you want to limit speaking time to five minutes. Five minutes. You want to silence even political and opinional opponents, totalitarianly completely, you even want to silence us so that opponents can only speak for five minutes. Even, because I'm here in the galleys today and every day, so just a few hours ago, one of the government MPs, I know his name naturally, so there was still an option that twice 15 minutes would be limited. But apparently, another government majority came in here, the government majority said, we're not giving them two or fifteen minutes, those who don't have priority rights. We won't give them twice 15 minutes! And now I've gotten the last piece of information, maybe it'll change after I say it here, so it's only supposed to be limited to five minutes. To silence 92 members here who are from the opposition who voted for over two million citizens of the Czech Republic, so you simply want to silence them. Although most voters didn't vote for you, because if you add the million votes that fell in the election because the citizens voted for less than 5% of the parties that didn't get into the House, you weren't voted by the majority. And yet you want to limit everyone's constitutional rights and freedoms, not most of them. I don't understand how anyone can think of such totalitarian manners. Anti-democratic, undemocratic manners. You're against democracy. You're against freedom. After all, this has already been shown in the debate, when President Pekarová Adamová here identified the SPD as an undemocratic party, while we are the only party that has a signatory to Charter 77 and a political prisoner in our ranks, and she is our MP Jaroslav Bašta, whom, of course, Mrs Pekarová Adamová does not touch her ankles about her professional past or her personal past. So these are really very insulting words, and it would be good not to confuse apples with pears to stop lying, mostly, that's what it's about not to lie. Don't lie anymore, because a lie has become your instrument. Just like she started, it's a very unpleasant surprise for me that Jan Hamáček's mannerists are continuing at the Ministry of the Interior last week, when the Home Office released a message that the SPD is supposed to be the spreader of disinformation, and when I looked at it, because we don't want this government dragging us into war with Russia, so whoever doesn't want war is a disinformer. So Minister Rakušan, Minister of the Interior, this government is already taking revenge on the SPD for this, other totalitarian manners, but I think it's getting very dangerous now that we're opinion opponents, so the Ministry of the Interior is using it to fight politically. That's what Mr. Hamáček did, and how did he end up? He's not here any more as far as the ČSSD is concerned. I remember Mr. Jan Chvojka, a member of the ČSSD, told me about the microphone, the microphone, and he went and said, Mr. Okamura, you will not be here for the next term. Here's what he said about this microphone. Jan Chvojka. And I'm not going to comment any more because Jan Chvojka isn't here anymore, nor is his ČSSD. So these arrogant manners that some parties have here, instead of being modest and appreciating every citizen's voice, and the fact that we have both freedom and democracy that you're trying to chop off right now, so here it is, these tendencies are here. As for the pandemic law, I think it's really a problem. And you're suggesting it in a so-called legislative emergency, so that it's pushed through at all costs. And here I will help myself by analyzing the Institute of Rights and Civil Liberties, which - it is such an association of lawyers and very nicely described here why the moment is already illegal, and that is the debate I am speaking to, now we have not yet reached the pandemic law, that is the next stage of this meeting, why it is illegal that you are proposing this in a so-called legislative emergency. So I quote it, the part of the analysis: The draft amendment of the law is to be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. In accordance with Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union may, on the basis of a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union, or of the European Union, or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the End of quote. - But that's from the Rules of Procedure Act. - Compliance with these conditions must be demonstrated sufficiently by the Government of the Czech Republic, or by the House. It is a fundamental principle of democratic rule of law for legislative power to adopt laws by a standard legislative process. The violation of this process is an unacceptable interference with the foundations of democracy. It is clear that neither of the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency has occurred. In this regard, it is particularly important to draw attention to the fact that although the number of positive PCR tests is currently increasing - this is an analysis, which is not today's, of course - but the number of people hospitalized is constantly decreasing, etc. It is not sufficient to rely on the decision that this might be otherwise in the future to declare a situation of legislative emergency, because the law assumes that an exceptional circumstance persists. On this there is no logical argument for the assumption that the conditions under that provision should be fulfilled. Foreign experience also shows that the variant of the omicron virus is harmless for people in most cases, and any negative scenario is a barren speculation. [[11.10 hours]] But I'd like to think about this section with permission. That's just because this government coalition that's here isn't what she's doing. She's not dealing with the SPD. They don't actually act. In doing so, a politician should be able to act. They don't act. You haven't acted here since the beginning of the House and you haven't acted, and then you're crying and you're whining in the media that you're not supposed to be able to enforce anything. I have an internal nickname - a weeping government. Crying, whining government - that's this government. And that's you instead of fifteen eighteen. It's kind of whiny. So you're crying, you're whining that you're not getting away with anything. At the same time, we, as the SPD in opposition, proceed precisely according to the law, and this is the law on the Rules of Procedure of the House. That's the law. It's not like anybody's making this up. We are proceeding exactly as you did in the last parliamentary term. But we were also in opposition during the last parliamentary term. But when you did it, it was okay. When we continue our opposition work, suddenly when you get to drink your own medicine, you don't like it. And why am I talking about this? You, because you're not dealing with anyone, you're not able to negotiate here in the House, you're not able and you just don't want to agree, because you're so impressed by the power and you've become arrogant and overlooked, the five-callice that you want to limit basically, as I said, by this pandemic law as well as the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens out of emergency completely. Of course, there's no need for an emergency, because there's no such condition. And instead of going back to normal life like other countries, you still want to expand your limits. So you have basically stepped up to this in a way that you do not act, you cannot negotiate with anyone in the House on anything, with anybody at all, with any of us, and instead of being politicians, and instead of being politicians, a politician should have the ability to negotiate and compromise, so you will start unconstitutionally and unlawfully abuse even the so-called legislative emergency, because it is clearly stated, and I have read it here, that in this way the law can only be discussed in the event of exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are substantially limited or when there is a threat of significant economic damage to the state. But this moment didn't even happen here. It doesn't. It doesn't happen here at all. And even here, the exact opposite moment is that you want to jeopardize the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and limit them. Indeed, no one here would invent that here the provisions in the Rules of Procedure Act, that someone will abuse them completely the other way around, and, on the contrary, they want to limit the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. I must say, I'm very surprised. That the people, the TOP 09, the STAN and the Pirates have these manners, that they jump like puppets, that they say in Brussels or Washington, we know that, of course. This is, of course, a political battle between us as the SPD as a patriotic party, where the Czech Republic comes first, and then it is a duel of these globalist pro-brussels parties, if you like, called them sunshiners, sunshine parties. And then there's the ODS, where, of course, there are defense secretary Jana Černochová, who sends ammo to Ukraine, unlike Germany, unlike France, from Western democratic countries. Notice that only countries that are not directly on the mainland with Ukraine are sending ammunition there. As far as military aid is concerned, it was essentially decided to send the US, Britain, and so on. But the countries that are on our land, typologically France, Germany, are now holding a neutral position and promoting rather a form of dialogue. But specifically, they don't send weapons and ammunition. Yes, helmets and military hospital. And I wonder if there are at least a few Members among the ODS Members, and I know there are a few who are also hard to swallow. And I think that it would be a good idea to propose, not by pressing a button on the pandemic bill, but it would be good to propose a secret vote, because I wonder if in a secret vote, when some Members will not be under this bullying pressure from the government, I have such a feeling that some Members of the government, the government Members, might not all have to vote for it, even if one brave man had found himself there, that would have been a good signal. Well, good signal, it would at least be proof that there's one person who has common sense in this case. But I have such a feeling that those who do not agree with the pandemic law, and I think I have the very right idea, so that those Members who have certain doubts are there more than one. But it's pushing exactly the ODS line machine, Petr Fiala, STAN, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09. So let's see if it's possible to do the secret vote on this matter here. Maybe, maybe not. I've already looked into it. And it needs to be consulted, because that might also be an interesting moment. Another thing is a state of legislative emergency. So I'd like to get back to the subject. You basically, because you can't deal with anybody here, those five-wheelers of the government, you can't sit at one table when you have a problem, you're whining, you're crying, you're suing in the media, as the opposition doesn't allow you to discuss this totalitarian pandemic law and correspondence choice, where you want to manipulate the president's choices already and influence, because that's where the president's election is written in the law, that's clear, that's what you're talking about, so you're actually taking these illegal steps, and I've already quoted lawyers here, and there's a lot more of those legal opinions, and there's a lot more where you're actually taking advantage of the institution of law enforcement in a state of legislative emergency. The problem is, the House is, of course, a sovereign. And you, despite all the abuse of power and all the abuse you're proposing of legislation to limit citizens' rights and freedoms, so you're just able to finally vote it out here. We also discussed the possibility in the SPD to have more priority rights, so that we would choose a lot more vice-chairmen of the club. But again, I know that here last week, the week before last, there was this weird thing that started yelling at the government coalition that only one of the club's vice presidents could represent in this thing. That's what we've been talking about. So you guys are gonna be rolling this place again to prevent this solution from happening here. In fact, you are doing everything you can to prevent the opposition from expressing itself and not actually being able to show you and explain, explain, explain to you why the pandemic law is not good. As for the other issues that we see as a problem, I would quote here, because our reasons why we do not want this pandemic law and why it has nothing to do here in a legislative emergency, that is what I am talking about here, so, of course, the government's proposal for an amendment to the pandemic law shows that not only the Ministry of Health, but also the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs should be able to issue extraordinary measures. Basically, it can be said that - I am not quoting this analysis, I am quoting my analysis here - that is, the legislative power goes from Parliament of the Czech Republic to the hands of three ministers who will have the right to decide our freedoms and lives. [[11.20 hours]] The problem here, of course, is that of the previous misguided and unconstitutional measures of the previous government, unfortunately, we know that human rights were not limited to all of us by ministers, but also by a group of anonymous officials who wrote illogical, illegal measures, and ministers signed them. When I go back to the analysis, to extend powers to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, the lawyers are here to communicate, it is the Institute of Rights and Civil Liberties that the explanatory memorandum does not explain enough why the authority to issue emergency measures should be extended to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. As can be seen from the overall argument of the petitioner, the covid-19 disease affects the entire society. Soldiers and other personnel subordinate to the structures of the Ministry of Defence and police officers and other personnel of the Ministry of the Interior do not constitute a special endangered or threatening group of residents. It is therefore unacceptable for those ministries to be allowed to issue restrictions only in their area. This could lead to a situation where a certain part of the population, soldiers, policemen and so on, will be limited to its rights in a completely different way than another group of residents, although the threat is the same for all persons. Such a situation is unconstitutional, completely contrary to Article 3 (1) and Article 4 (3) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u6	Mr President, I am very sorry. You are enrolled in the debate that we will confirm the state of legislative emergency. I don't know if you realize this, because you are still signed up for a item in the debate. So I'm just reminding you that now we're deciding and talking to a point, we're confirming a state of legislative emergency, so we're just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u7	And can you tell me if, Madam Vice-President, there is a time limit for me in the Rules of Procedure when I want to justify why it should be or should not be in a legislative emergency?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u8	That's definitely not a time... [[Mr Okamura: So you can see, so please don't interrupt me.]] Please, let me... You asked me, I answer. I just want to remind you that we are at the point... that we are at the point of debate on the confirmation of a legislative emergency, and you are acting as if you were already in the debate on the open point number 1. [[Mr Okamura: But I am...]] I'm just reminding you. [[Mr Okamura: And I can...]] This is not a time limitation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u9	And may I remind you, do you know that there is another provision in the Rules of Procedure that the speaker should not be interrupted except for specific points, why can you interrupt me? [[President Kovářová: Yes.]] Do you know what these points are in the case of a speaker who has priority rights?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u10	Yes, of course. I can interrupt you even if you're not making a point. I'm just warning you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u11	Well, that doesn't concern the speaker with the priority right, you've got it all wrong. It's, for example, when I'm talking vulgarly and so forth. So maybe next time I can train you, but with a priority-right speaker, he can talk about anything, Madam Vice-President. Don't be mad at me, and I'm trying here, so I'm not limited in time, we agreed. I'm talking about a state of legislative emergency, but there's no time limit for her to justify it. Or would you like to explain to me in the government coalition... You don't want to write it down, actually, the justification? That I would read what you're dictating to me here, and that you, together, five-calice, would sit down on what Okamura's supposed to be talking about? Yeah, I don't think it's adequate. And don't worry, I'm ready, even here, when I'm signed up for that pandemic law, yeah, that's another piece of evidence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u12	Please, nicely, I don't need any training. I was just pointing out that you probably misjudged the point... of the application, first of all. [[Member Okamura: No, I didn't, I know it very, very well.]] And secondly, even a speaker with priority rights should stick to the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u13	Well, what if Mr. Kalousek was reading here? What did he read the snippets from Riding Karkulka? Or was it babička? [[President Kovářová: Mr President...]] So that was the point? Now I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u14	I'd ask you not to come back. [[Member Okamura: And Mr Stanjura here has also read a book.]] I wasn't talking about Mr Kalousek, I was talking about you, please, and I consider this done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u15	Well, I don't consider it done because you have double standards. I think that Members are all equal, and it would be as good as breaking the Constitution as it really would be to end it slowly, these manners, because I don't understand how government MPs, current government MPs here, if I remember correctly, so Mr. Kalousek here read a passage, quote here from some Red Karkulka, or now I don't know if it was babička, I guess it was Riding Karkulka, I guess, červený Riding Karkulka was or something like that, so it was okay from your point of view when your colleague read it. But I'm not reading anything, I've been talking about your law all along, and why shouldn't it be in a legislative emergency? I'm not reading anything here that's not relevant. I don't understand now. So Riding Karkulka yes, or babička, and I'm quoting an analysis of lawyers here on the current draft amendment to the Emergency Measures Act in the Covid-19 epidemic and the amendment to related laws, and that's wrong? Well, then... or that you'd like to dictate it to them again, those lawyers, how are they supposed to write it down to make you like it? Well, anyway, I'm taking into account what you said, but I'm gonna stick to it like... I say again, a priority right, we can get off to whatever it takes, if there is an event, so remember, here Members, and we accepted it, maybe something happened in the world, it wasn't even on the agenda, so they got off to comment, and maybe they asked for a minute of silence and so on. After all, it's a priority right for those people with the priority right that they can do some actual case, it's been here a hundred times, maybe there's been some corruption case of something or something, so even your MPs went right to the microphone with the priority right, immediately suggested that it needs to be discussed, it wasn't even on the agenda. That's normal. This is simply democratic, and I am in favour of having this democracy with each other here, but also with the citizens. So, the cases or the cases, there's a lot of them where it doesn't apply to those with priority rights to the matter. But I'm talking to the point, okay? So I just wanted to point out that it would be good if we didn't have double standards after all, okay? [[President Kovářová: Okay, go ahead.]] Let's continue. So anyway, as far as the legislative emergency goes, that's really the problem, too... and I'm trying to point out here, okay, I'm just going to give it a little bit more detail here in one sentence to make sure you're happy. I am trying to describe that such a law, which severely limits - that is, to put it here into the limits, if we did not understand each other - which limits the fundamental constitution thus across the board guaranteed the rights of freedom of citizens that cannot be discussed in a legislative emergency, I am trying to say. I'm trying to say -- and that's the point of my performance, so I thought it was understandable -- and I'm trying to explain that at least you should have put it into a normal legislative process, although we obviously fundamentally disagree with the law, but that's the point, why I'm explaining it, so I hope we understand each other now, and I'm here trying to describe how you actually restrict the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution and why it should not be in that legislative emergency. So I hope we understand why this needs to be described in detail, because it doesn't really feel right to take it lightly and limit it to five minutes of discussion, which is what you're planning to do when you're here telling people that you can't even do business, yeah, which is what you're proposing. As for your government amendment, you're the one who's expanding the list of emergency measures that can be taken under the pandemic law as an adverse epidemic situation. And the authorities, and that's what I was just talking about, will be able to limit business and other activities in the establishment, in the mall, in the marketplace or in the marketplace, and it will also be possible to regulate operating hours. And restrictions will also be possible for all activities in which one is in direct contact with someone else. And again, I'm saying here that this is just another example of the specific things that you're limiting here, and that is even a constitutionally guaranteed right, it's in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the right to do business, and it can't be discussed in a legislative emergency, and I'm trying to explain to you here that this needs to be discussed very widely and in depth. Of course, our position is clear that we are against it. So I'm trying everything here... Okay, so I'm going to point out why I'm talking about this, so it's clear that I'm talking about why it's not supposed to be in the legislative emergency. [[11.30 hours]] You also suggest that it will also be possible to limit all activities in which one is in direct contact with someone else, which are also weddings, funerals and other things. This amendment also complements the power to regulate the operation of all types of sports facilities, schools and children's groups and facilities for extracurricular education of children. Measures based on what your government is promoting will also apply to music, dance and similar clubs, discotheques, gambling rooms, casinos, museums, galleries, castles, castles, public libraries, planetariums, zoos and botanical gardens. And the amendment includes that you will also be able to restrict cultural events, festivals, festivals, markets, fairs, recovery events for children or suburban camps. So I say again that this broad amendment, this pandemic law of yours, which limits citizens' rights so widely, simply cannot be discussed in our opinion in a legislative emergency. 'Cause you can't sneak up on it like that. Shmahem. Within an hour, limit constitutional rights. You've got a hundred and eighty, a hundred undemocraticly-thinking MPs, and you're just gonna drop a blank check for an otherwise-named emergency. That's what I'm trying to explain. That's what this is about. From your novel, as far as you're concerned, you're expanding those areas where basic civil rights and freedoms are restricted. And even lawyers consider that the principle set out in Article 4 (4) of the Charter is violated because it clearly states - I quote that - in applying the provisions on the limits of fundamental rights and freedoms, their substance and meaning must be investigated. End of quote. As the petitioner, a government amendment, says, is a government, responds with this amendment to the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. The State is bound by the decision of the court. Well, it's unacceptable for state power to respond to the lawlessness of its previous emergency measures in any way other than to respect the court's decision. It's unacceptable, yes. And in this case, the petitioner even admits that the aim of the change is to force the judicial authority to pursue measures that are illegal at the moment. Well, that's a really strong coffee. And I'm really saying again, where did that come from in that coalition hundred and eight, these totalitarian manners? That they want totalitarianly to influence the rights and freedoms of our citizens? That's crazy. That's completely insane. Otherwise, in order to continue, why it should not be in a legislative emergency, I will continue, here I have an analysis of the Institute of Law and Civil Liberties, which says that in promoting the amendment, it must be borne in mind that executive authorities acquire in the hands of instruments that are commonly used only as sanctioning and coercive means. - It's exactly how experts see it. The government wants instruments in its hands - that is executive power, government - that have so far been used as sanction and coercive means, but the government actually wants to normalize, it wants to make it a standard for it to have sanctions and coercive means in its hands against citizens. I think it's scary completely. It's scary what the government's trying to get through here! Article 2 (2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is given - which is not the amendment, I quote from... that is actually part of the Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - that State power can only be exercised in cases and limits laid down by law, in the way that the law provides. In most of the provisions of the amended Section 2, the method of application of the State authority is set out only in the framework. So you see the half-heartedness, too. The phrase "including limitation of operating time' can be used as an example. So, in extreme cases, the competent authority of the executive authority, so we're talking about the Ministry of Health, could limit it by allowing the service to be operated every fifth Sunday between 1 p.m. and 13.30, and the entity concerned wouldn't have found the protection of the judicial authority, because the executive authority, the government, would have acted in accordance with legal authorisation. And again, we'll hear from the government: but that's not how we want to do it. But it's not like that! It's not like the government's gonna be here to decide whether or not to limit it if it's not necessary. But a citizen must have guaranteed that he will not be restricted beyond and that he will not be restricted by constitutional rights and freedoms. You guys turned the whole thing around! You've turned the democratic system into totalitarianism! It is unbelievable that in 2022 someone in the Parliament of the Czech Republic could even suggest this, some parties. This means a Bianko penalty and coercive means, a Bianko check for penalties and coerced means that when someone happens to decide, typically the Minister of Health, the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Defence, this is Mrs. Černochová, Mr. Rakušan and Mr. Válek, so that they can show each other who might not be able to go to work. Well, the lawyers here rightly point out that one of the characteristics of the rule of law is legal certainty, and the condition for fulfilling this sign is predictability. If the State exercises its power, the addressees of the standard must be clear in advance what they can count on and what their subjective rights are. But that's what this place is all about. Not in this analysis, in the government proposal. The fact that, if such restrictions were not considered necessary by the State at the time of the adoption of the original text of the pandemic law, this is all the less necessary now, when it is more than obvious that the epidemiological situation is dramatically better and in some countries it has already adapted and repealed this new reality. We would like to remind you that intervention in fundamental rights must be proportional. Therefore, in each intervention, the appropriateness and proportionality of the measure in question should be determined and measured with the law affected. No legislation should advance from this principle. - And once again, for the President of the House, which in the meantime has been replaced, I am here to justify why we in the SPD think that this should not be in a legislative emergency. And, of course, we have a number of arguments here, and I'm trying to make a speech here. Just so it doesn't come out again so someone doesn't say I'm not talking to you. Of course, that would just be proof that he doesn't listen to what I'm saying. - Expanding the scope of human rights and freedoms restrictions, which may be made by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, is therefore unacceptable. This must be said that your law as such is unacceptable from a constitutionally legal point of view. Furthermore, if we look further into your bill, why it is necessary to discuss it properly and not in such a way that we have no time to comment on it, notabene, if you want to limit us to five minutes, and so I would continue to justify it. The newly formulated provision of Section 2 (2) (c) is too general. For example, couriers come into contact with another natural person directly. If it is not the government's intention to allow the executive authority, which is the government, to unilaterally limit the delivery of consignments at a time when the movement is limited overall, not to mention that the affected may be ill in isolation, who have no other option to obtain food, in such a general way, the provisions should not be formulated by the government. In this case, it was just one example, but there may be a number of such situations. Each provision should therefore be allowed to go through the review procedure, to think carefully and to formulate precisely. And that's not what's happening here. That's why I'm stressing again - I'm just gonna see who's chairing so I don't address you as a female, because I didn't look, you might as well take it personally. [[Vice-President Bartošek]] So that's why I'm saying again, and the lawyers here are saying that that's why it's necessary to discuss this law not in a legislative emergency, but to let it go through the proper review procedure, to think carefully and precisely formulate it. [[11.40 hours]] In this context, I do not understand why such a move? You say you want to be ready for the fall wave. But for... We don't know if there's going to be a wave, and we have a constitution here, and we have a law on public health, and we have a functional Czech Republic here from this point of view, so we can deal with different situations. And secondly, it is precisely that you propose this in a legislative emergency, as I said before, that you might as well have suggested it in August or September. I don't understand why you're proposing this in January, in February, at least. For who's benefit? Who did you promise to make sure that if you did, you'd give them something? I'm running tests? Pharmaceutical lobby? That's really remarkable, and that would also deserve to have answers for this, which, of course, we'll never get from you here. Because it is strange indeed, I have already said this here, that while other countries are loosening up, you, on the contrary, are proposing a law to the maximum possible limitation by the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens, even though there is no situation here that needs to be addressed in some way. Let's move on. By rephrasing § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) - and again, why am I reading this, that I am stressing here that this legislative emergency is simply wrong, so it takes time, time for this law to be discussed in detail - I am stressing this so that someone here does not jump in line with the House Rules of Procedure Act again, because I would not like to be interrupted by someone when I interrupt myself when I want to. By rephrasing § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) an exception to the prohibition or restriction on the conduct of events where the accumulation of persons takes place in one place has resulted in meetings, meetings and similar events held by other public or private persons on the basis of the law. This Act allows, for example, the executive authority to prohibit the holding of general meetings of corporations or may violate other rights and obligations of corporations. So such interference with rights is obviously disproportionate, and therefore totally inadmissible. I've already read a few points here, and I'm going after those sections that are very controversial. Well, controversial, they're unconstitutional and illegal. And over and over again, I'm trying to convince you to drop the emergency meeting here to call it off, that's my goal, and to start talking to the others here, you, the government coalitions, to start talking to the opposition, to acknowledge that you're really interfering with the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms, and to start discussing this properly here in the House in the presence of experts, legal experts, constitutional lawyers. I mean, you guys totally knocked everybody out. That's an unprecedented dictatorship you're setting here. Dictatorship even a political minority, which is your government coalition when we come out of the number of votes cast in the elections. And that is completely unacceptable. That's why I'm trying to say here again that it would be optimal, and I think it would also be reasonable for the leaders of the government coalition headed by Prime Minister Petr Fiala to agree that you've overdoed it, that citizens are already rebelling, and that's far from just the SPD voters, as you know, it's many of your constituents who have had enough and are already dissatisfied. They're dissatisfied with what you're dealing with here when you're dealing with a price increase. That's another thing. And that really optimal and fair would be if you came up with a proposal - and I'm handing you a hand in this - to withdraw it, this proposal. So you can download it and we can have a discussion here. A discussion that can take place here on political grémium etc., what to do next. Of course, we fundamentally disagree, but it would be fair for you to acknowledge that you just overreacted. I've even been told by some people who move around the Ministry of Health that Minister Válek, Minister of Health, how he got in and doesn't know what he's hitting, which is why the confusing measures that nobody knows any more, so that the officials basically planted it on him, he didn't even really know what he was doing, they said they needed it, so he filed it. Even the gallery is already spreading this information and now the minister is desperate and desperate for the government coalition, which is why you are quickly putting in those amendments, where originally a few days ago it was unlimited, now a changeling, that perhaps by November. You originally flipped from 95 percent - based on the analysis of our experts, I have that from about 95 percent you flipped restrictions from emergency to ordinary law, and now you're retreating and you've prepared a big amendment, where you're already cutting a lot. But you can't treat people's constitutional rights and freedoms like that! That when you get under pressure... And it only proves that you are a completely incompetent government, that is, of course, that you propose the law behind which you have to stand, and then, in a legislative emergency, you will put yourself under pressure, under time pressure, you will put yourself under time pressure, and then, based on SPD pressure, you will find that it is actually wrong that you are already restricting power, and within a few days you are now preparing an amendment, where what we have criticized that you are proposing unlimitedly, so you are already putting a changer in there only until November, what you have turned over completely, measures in an emergency state, so you are already preparing a changer, where you are already cutting a number of things back there. But that's what my words confirm, that it's messed up, that you're the government of chaos. You're an incompetent government that, running here, based on the pressure of the SPD and the opposition, recognizes its mistakes quietly so no one will notice. But I noticed that because, of course, we're analyzing it in detail in the SPD, so we can see it. Now that you're on the run, you're setting up a hot needle again with amendments, where you're actually trying to sort of cross out what the SPD here... we're right to criticize, and you're telling us the truth, and you're cutting back a lot, because you've realized it's just too much. So it's really a bluff. And I really wanted to ask you to just take it down today. I would like to ask you to do this for the sake of a good cause, because you are persuading yourself to know that it is not okay, you are persuading yourself by making amendments to your own government proposal. Well, that's unbelievable. This incompetent government is doing an incredible ruse. That's why you've got thousands of officials, you've got legislative unions at the ministries, you've got professionals at your disposal to make a proposal so it just fits. And you will immediately find out about the first larger law that you are making - and yet you have said how ready you are, how competent you are to rule - as well as the first law that you have put forward here is a pandemic law restricting constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, so right away, government MPs are making amendments to their own government proposal, because it staggers them. That's crazy! That's crazy. That's why I wanted to ask you to take it down! Please withdraw the pandemic law. Because you're planning on... I hear Mr. Výborný has been telling his MPs here to take their sleeping bags and stuff, so you just want to make a hard call here. [[11.50 hours]] I'd like to ask you politically fairly, because you acknowledge that it's a pasquil, which is why you're putting your changelings in there for your own proposal on the move, on the run, on the move. But you can't work like that, especially with the law. I'd still understand if it was some kind of law, so if, I don't know, maybe there's something small going on. I get it, something's gonna go through, it's gonna go through, okay, it's gonna be effective from February 1st, because it's February, so you're gonna move it to March 1st. I understand these changelings. That could happen to the government. Something's gonna stretch out here in the House. But not if you're just juggling a restriction on constitutional rights and freedoms. So I was going to ask the government MPs to withdraw today to stop them from messing with these constitutional rights and freedoms. And so when they see that there's pressure from the SPD, you respond to it with amendments, but in principle it's all kicked in, it's wrong. The law is already fundamentally wrong, but it would be fair if you just pulled it off and had a normal discussion. But you don't want to do that. But I think that would be fair, and we would accept that. We'd accept it, and it'd be quiet, for a while, that you'd just admit it's too much. We can promise you a fair approach on this, that if you pull it off, well, we'll make a big line, and in that case we'll have to move on and start talking and not doing these things to the power when it comes to constitutional rights and citizens' freedoms. Okay, state budget - I get it, you guys are gonna say that, right, we're gonna say our thing. But these are constitutional freedoms and citizens' rights, that's a whole different caliber you're doing here. So that's my proposal, I'd like to suggest that, because, of course, the petitioner can withdraw the proposal. So it would be optimal if we didn't have to deal with this here for a long time to realize that it was just a mistake on your part, that it was all in too much of a hurry, and that, like I said, you're giving your changelings to that, you want to give. I know you're planning this because you already know that you have butter on your head and that you've made it wrong, wrong, unconstitutional. Well, let's continue with the arguments about why it shouldn't just be in the legislative emergency. There's a lot of arguments here. For example, on paragraph 8 of the amendment, and here again I think I quote from the analysis of the Institute of Rights and Civil Liberties, namely the amendment to the provisions of Paragraph 2 (2) of the Amendment. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) where further restrictions on the right of children to training guaranteed in particular by Article 33 of the Charter are unacceptable. Yes, it's in the Constitution, the right to education. It is in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the Czech Constitution. And you want to limit it, you want to restrict constitutional rights by ordinary law. It's just a crazy, crazy rise of totalitarianism on your part. Children have the right to go to school, that is the constitutional right to be educated. And you want a check, so you can just say, "You're not going, you're not." You don't care what happens to your parents anymore. They need to go to work, and that doesn't interest you at all. Besides, we know you don't care. That's not what I'm saying here, just saying you don't care. After all, many citizens ask us, we have already discussed this here in the House last week: what about the various compensatory programmes in the framework of the measures? Your government is silent, your government isn't responding to it at all, and it's not responding. Here we are bombarded by businessmen, businessmen, small Czech companies, asking questions and your government is silent. Nothing, he doesn't know anything, chaos. So, on the one hand, this is proof of the enormous underachieverness of the whole thing. You're not just, in short, ready to rule. In short, you are not competent to rule, and this is also seen in the way in which this law is presented and at all addressed. Article 2 of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms explicitly states: "No one shall be denied the right to education.' Article 10 of the Constitution states that: "The international treaties declared, for which Parliament has given its approval and by which the Czech Republic is bound, are part of the rule of law. Where an international treaty provides for something other than a law, the international treaty shall apply.'; Czechoslovakia was the first ever state in Central and Eastern Europe to become a party to the Convention. The Convention was ratified on 18 March 1992 and published under No. 2009/1990 Coll. The above provision of this Convention therefore has an application priority and, in our view, it is unacceptable that national legislation restricts the right to education by this Convention in any way guaranteed. So that's another question mark. And again, I'm talking about you wanting to restrict the constitutional right to education. And you can't do that here either, working in a legislative emergency and in such a way that you're gonna take it all the way and you're gonna think everything's okay. In addition, your proposal should also be affected by the right to basic education, which represents one of the basic conditions for maintaining contemporary civilization. Basic education, which is the basis of the literacy of our civilization, must be limited only in cases where the objective pursued, which only the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be achieved otherwise, cannot be achieved. There is no reason for implementing this type of measure. The completion of the pandemic law on this point thus constitutes a completely flagrant infringement of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty. 4 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is a constitution. So, one after another, what you're proposing in that pandemic law is constitutional violations. In this regard, when you look at the analysis, there are references to other expert studies and articles proving that there is no reason to direct antiepidemic measures against children and their rights. Let's move on. Another problematic place that we simply cannot discuss in a legislative emergency. No way. After all, everyone will confirm to me, certainly also President Bartošek here, what broad discussions, in the case of laws that do not interfere with constitutional rights and freedoms in any way like yours, the discussions are taking place on the constitutional-legal committee, how many experts are invited there, the positions of ministries. It's a normal process here. I don't know why your government coalition is doing abnormal processes here. I know. Because you liked the power and control people. But it's perfectly normal that if there were so many questions about any law, you, today's five-calice government, are in the last parliamentary term, and we were also the opposition party, the SPD, always asking for more opinions to be made about it and to discuss it. It's just incredible what this arrogance of power can do to people who have completely forgotten about citizens within a few months. And after all, any law that would only have a fraction of these comments that I'm saying here from various reputable lawyers and so on, so you'd all be asking that this be discussed, that it be done, that it be properly discussed. I don't know where you're coming from today, in all of you, except, of course, us, in the SPD, defending this freedom and democracy. [[12.00 hours]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (n) be reported as an anti-epidemic measure to natural persons who have undergone a test for the determination of SARS-CoV-2 antigen with a positive result, abstain from other natural persons without specifying what this separate retention means. If not only the tested person but also his employer is to be affected in such a serious way, the conditions should be laid down precisely. This is one of the provisions that should be properly assessed in the commentary procedure and assessed how to adjust the rights and obligations, for example, in a situation where the person would be tested positively with an antigen test repeatedly in a row. However, it should certainly be specified what is meant by the wording - I quote - to "stay separate" in order to rule out the possibility that, under such legal provisions, an executive authority, that is to say, a government, a ministry, could, for example, order a stay in a quarantine detention facility. This point, I'm gonna stop by his place for a while, because it's one of those many discussed moments of your amendment to the pandemic law. Here I would just remind you that the SPD movement was the only MP who voted a year ago against the pandemic law that was passed by the government of the YES movement, Andrej Babiš. But they're not ashamed of it, the YES movement. She's not shy. They've got this program and it's been evaluated by voters in the election. So to keep it separate, actually to isolate some people, that the Ministry will say, you can't associate with others, that's a moment that I've noticed a lot in the public debate and the lawyers in relation to that proposed amendment to the pandemic law, because that's really an extremely dangerous moment too. An extremely dangerous moment, which allows for extremely totalitarian manners. Because actually what is specified by the formula to abstain separately? So somebody's gonna order it, some clerk. The text, maybe? How do you suggest that from an anonymous number, people get text messages and then have to stay apart, or even get banned from going to work? What if it turns out someone took advantage of it? So who's gonna pay for the damages and so on? Let's move on. Again, I stress that I am saying here the reasons why this should not be in a legislative emergency, but again I say that we will, of course, be against this law, and I call on the government again to withdraw it for the many reasons that I am saying here, so that you simply withdraw it, because even if you vote on power here, the arguments still apply, and believe me, sooner or later it will turn against you, because this really bothers a lot of people here that you are dealing with, instead of dealing with energy and food expensives, etc. What are you calling an emergency meeting for? And that's definitely gonna be an extraordinary meeting, maybe, as I'm guessing, we'll see about the correspondence vote. This means, instead of being an extraordinary meeting, how we will help people against increasing energy, we have made proposals here, the SPD, many times in particular, and I have already talked about them today, so you are simply calling together, your priority is completely different things. Let's move on. Therefore, in Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission (t) the possibility is provided for to limit the activities of legal entities due to the personal contact of natural persons. This restriction is already being applied in practice by the newly formulated provisions of § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e). As mentioned above, the amendment thus allows, for example, the executive authority to prohibit the holding of general meetings of corporations, thereby violating other corporate rights and obligations. Such interference with rights is apparently disproportionate and therefore totally inadmissible. So, again, another argument to discuss this more closely, because I am - although I am not, as I said, and you know it, I have not been in politics as long as some of the others have, but I have already understood that many politicians here are completely distracted from reality. They're saying something here, they're going to cause damage to citizens, they're going to cause damage to citizens, and then they're going to cause damage to citizens, and then they're going to cause damage, because the state is anonymous, so it's like nothing's going on. In fact, it's like nothing's going on, and it's like no one's responsible. Citizens will pay for it, often they will fail, for example, see how you here - even the SPD, even I was not in the House - have voted for the execution system. It's very typical here. And that then people are often completely unjustly bullied, persecuted, even though they may not even be... It's not their fault, it's just the system, the mafia system is just going down, it's going down, and it often ends with suicides, because the politician caused by the mafia system, it's just set up that even the citizen who's innocent in it, there's a lot of cases, or the system is set up so draconically, that it doesn't even often allow you to return to normal life even for those who are paying back, so politicians actually wash your hands over it. And that's exactly what's going on here. Well, that's exactly what your novel is. It's just that the head isn't willing to limit constitutional rights and freedoms, cause damage, and then actually the only person who's gonna pay for it and get desperate is the citizen, and you're not really gonna know each other anymore, because the train is going on. But you can't just do that! You can't just do that! So let's keep going, let's say another particular reason why this should not be in a legislative emergency. As regards point 8 of the amendment, namely the amendment to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) u). The amendment introduces a new institute - quote - order to a natural person. As the petitioner expressly admits, the purpose of this supplement is to circumvent the existing regulation under the Act on the Protection of Public Health and the Administrative Code, where limiting a natural person to his fundamental human rights and freedoms is only permitted by a decision in administrative proceedings. In practice, this can therefore mean that not the law or decision of a public authority, but only a kind of unnamed act, such as the delivery of a SMS message, restricts a person to his rights, even not on the basis of the law, but on the basis of an emergency measure of a general nature. Lawyers here state: A similar delegation is completely inadmissible in the constitutional state. Yes, it is. It infringes the fundamental principles of constitutionality, as they result from Art. Article 2 (1) (a) Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 6 The Charter of Fundamental It's part of the constitution. The amendment does not address - that is to say, the proposed pandemic law - the possibility of defending against such an order, and is therefore completely contrary to Art. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is the right to judicial protection. The regulation of isolation or quarantine measures is a very crucial step and represents an extraordinary intervention in fundamental human rights and freedoms. In such a case, however, the legal regulation of these institutes must also correspond to that. We strongly point out that according to § 2 para. The protection of public health can only be ordered by a person who has become ill with an infectious disease or appears to have symptoms of this disease. According to the government of the bill, it is to be ordered by this completely unacceptable form of isolation even in cases of a positive PCR test or antigen test. So here again you see another moment, one of many moments, where in a completely insane way - in a crazy way - you are actually limiting the constitutional rights and freedoms of Czech citizens, citizens of the Czech Republic, and basically it is absolutely incredible. And your argument that self-insulation will be terminated if a person limited to his rights proves that he is not infected cannot be accepted. [[12.10 hours]] I will add that, in view of the intensity of interference in such measures, in the most fundamental rights of man, it is essential that it is the state power to prove that such serious and exceptional conditions for such intervention are met, and in the current form of an administrative decision. For example, an intervention in the form of a text message is an unprecedented attempt at overturning the democratic rule that no one is obliged to do what the law does not impose on him. This is a very important moment. Because you're basically completely overturning the existing democratic rule here, or one of the principles of democracy, that perhaps an upright citizen, a citizen who hasn't done anything, maybe the citizen doesn't have to prove that he hasn't done anything. If the state can't limit it just so that the citizen can prove it's unfairly restricted. That's completely insane. This is a crazy moment. I don't know if the government MPs of Petr Fiala even realize that. That's an incredibly bullying practice. An incredibly totalitarian practice. Again, from what you're proposing, it means that you're going to restrict someone, and basically only that person has to prove that it's wrong in isolation to not be there, but yet the Constitution, constitutional rights and freedoms are clear that people have the right to live, work, educate and do so. And they can't prove backwards that they can even have the right to live in harmony with the Constitution. That's a scary moment, isn't it? And the lawyers here are pretty much at odds. Well, that's crazy. I don't know how anyone can think of designing this at all. This is really totalitarianism and dictatorship, it's covid's totalitarianism and dictatorship. But be careful, you can apply it to anything of course. It's unbelievable. Really, as I suspect, when I see here Minister Válek, Minister of Health, it is said that as you, Minister, have found out the Ministry, I know that you are not listening to me, but we know this, these games, but that, in fact, as you were there in the hustle, that it was slipped to you by officials, and if it is not just that there is actually such a pasquila when your government MPs themselves put amendments there, because it is unbearable. I would just like to ask you, Minister of Health of the Válek, to withdraw today. Do you think that would be possible? Well, the minister's pretending not to hear, and he won't answer me. Okay. I'm not gonna bother him here. But it would just be ideal if you just pulled it off today because it's already so messed up. I'm telling you, Minister, this is going to turn on you for nothing. There's no point in people being upset with you because it's just too much, what you're suggesting. It's wrong what you're suggesting. So it would be ideal if you yourself suggested that you discuss it here with government colleagues, and Minister Válek, Minister Health, if you just downloaded it today. If you were to hide this extraordinary meeting and even give yourself time for your amendments, they would have given themselves time to discuss it. Of course, we are happy to participate in the discussion in the sense that we do not want it. But it would be good to get a little... You need to talk about it, because there are so many complaints here that it's not possible for you to push this around at all. Otherwise, the lawyers here say that we have no choice but to point out that the only obvious motive for this proposal is to support the functioning of the so-called Tracing Mediation Project Smart Quarantine. We present a professional study by profesor MUDr. Jiří Beran, CSc, which clearly shows that this form of tracing is a completely nonsense measure that does not lead to the eradication of the epidemic or to the prevention of its spread. Please also note that the Smart Quarantine project is currently under investigation by the Police of the Czech Republic and the National Headquarters against organized crime. But let's go back to the clause. To that end, it should be added that it is formulated in such a way that it is not clear which other natural persons are to be treated as such. So in turn other natural persons, but the term of the other natural person expresses the indeterminate number of natural persons, including all natural persons who reside in the territory of the Czech Republic. From the Government of the proposed provision, it is not valid who will prove in any way that other natural persons have not been in contact with an infected natural person. So again, it's just a problem again. Well, if I sum it up in an intelligible sentence, the Health Minister just wants to show himself in quotes: you, you and the isolations, you don't go to work, and this is where the manners are going to work. Well, if the firm loses their jobs, something, they show him this noodles, and you don't even get a loss of profit. This really is absolutely unbelievable. Where Article 2 (2) (a) is not applicable, Article 2 (1) (a) shall apply. Article (b) enables natural persons to give orders to the public health authorities after returning to the Czech Republic to provide all the required data, the law should specify how the obligation under this provision will be fulfilled. That's another problem. Where the obligation of a natural person to provide additional epidemiologically relevant data is foreseen in this provision, it should be specified which data are or may or may not be or may not be concerned. Without this specification, the obligation remains too vague, plus without legal authorisation. In this context, we would like to point out the provisions of Art. Article 2 (1) (a) 2 Charter - I quote: Everyone can do what is not forbidden by law, and no one must be forced to do what the law does not impose. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100 million. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 of the same article of the Charter, and I quote, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms which forms part of the Constitution, these freedoms may be limited by law if this is essential for the security of the State, the maintenance of public order, the protection of health or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others, and in defined territories also for the protection of nature. End of quote from the Constitution, specifically from the article of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Newly inserted § 2a, what the Government's proposal for the pandemic law introduces there, i.e. the newly introduced § 2a is a fundamental breakthrough in the law and the realization of the right to ownership. This right is a fundamental right, which, moreover, conveys other fundamental and other rights, including the right to entrepreneurship. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice's file mark ÚS 24/99 stated that - I quote: Protection of the freedom of the contractual will, which is a derivative of constitutional protection of the right of ownership pursuant to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. End of quote. It is therefore clear that it is therefore unacceptable for the Government's proposed pandemic law to replace the contractual will of the persons concerned and for the legislature to at the same time resign from its competence, which it will without justification leave to the executive power, should it leave to its consideration whether it will prohibit the decision-making of the legal person's bodies in its chosen form. So another point that confirms that we just can't discuss it here in this legislative emergency. And I'm really surprised those government MPs aren't talking about it. Yeah, there are some members from the government coalition, as well as ministers, that's Mr. Výborný, Mr. Jurečka and Co., who have thicker skin and so similar, Mrs. Pekarová and so on. They don't really care whether they limit citizens' rights or not. They don't care. Apparently, Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS also has thick skin. Because he's still silent, actually. He's actually just silent, and he doesn't really want to discuss such topics. Such a silent Prime Minister. And when he says something, he always sends signals. So they're sending out a signal. Which, of course, is not enough, I must say. People smiled when it was just after the election, but now it would take not words, but it would need the actions too. [[12.20 hours]] So let's move on to point 22 of the amendment, the government amendment. We consider the extension of the effectiveness of the pandemic law, especially because it does not even contain the date of termination of at least part of the provisions restricting human rights, completely unacceptable. The pandemic law, as a regulation, substantially extending the power of the only administrative authority to directly intervene in the fundamental and other rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, was adopted - the original pandemic law - for a relatively short period of time, in view of the intensity which undermines the normal functioning of the democratic rule of law. That's the pandemic law YES, that pushed the YES movement, together with this currently government five coalition, you voted in favour. And I remember some of the members of the government coalition here still criticizing the pandemic law, but you already liked the power. And once again, the YES movement is openly applying to the pandemic law, so here again it depends on what everyone is promoting, then it evaluates the elections, so it depends on everyone again. But it is our right, as a party, to defend our program as an opposition, as an SPD with the title of freedom and democracy. I would really like to ask you not to limit speaking time, as the roundabout is going on here, for our Members, because our Members simply want to express themselves. We have a number of Members of Parliament who are doctors, I believe that we even have the most doctors of all in the SPD in relation to the number of Members. That means, in our case, it's twenty-four, which means we'd like to comment on it, we've got right people there, we've got people who have experience both in the financial sector and diplomacy and so on, as well as other experts. I think that they should have the right and it would be dignified for us to limit the space of speech to such people so that everyone can actually discuss this proposal from their point of view. And more than half a million citizens of the Czech Republic voted for us, and we represent them, unlike the TOP 09 or the Pirates, who are here in the leadership of the House, but they have much smaller parliamentary clubs, and they want to limit us here how to express ourselves and time. That's absolutely incredible arrogance, that's not possible at all. I wouldn't dream that the Pirate here would raise his hand for this - with four MPs - and the TOP 09, so that the MP who voted for over half a million voters - wouldn't be able to speak to a fundamental point here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u16	Mr President, if there is a legislative emergency, please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u17	There. So to point 22 of the amendment. I see Mr. Vice-President's a close man. So to point 22 of the amendment. An extension of the effectiveness of the pandemic law. Yes, I have already mentioned that we consider it completely unacceptable that it was not there... that there is no end to the effectiveness. The pandemic law, as a regulation, substantially extending the power of a single administrative office to directly intervene in the fundamental and other rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, has been adopted for a relatively short period of time, given the intensity which undermines the normal functioning of the democratic rule of law. As I said before, this occurred at a time when, according to the petitioner, there was an acute threat of hospital overload, etc. So those were the reasons why the YES movement came through here last year. We were against it because we said that if there was some really extreme emergency situation, that's what the Emergency Institute is for, but the situation isn't here, or there are common laws to protect public health and all that. And after a year of application of this law, which was passed by the government of Andrej Babiš last year, the situation is completely different. The law was passed with effect for a year, until February 28th. The covid-19 disease, according to all expert opinions, does not pose an increased threat to humans compared to other respiratory diseases. Hospital facilities are open. So here you see again, I know there's already some amendment that's supposed to apply like November, but that's not satisfying at all, because I'm asking why the pandemic law is supposed to be here in this amended form, where you just tilt the emergency clause to make it look like you're not imposing a totalitarian emergency state in the sense that right now the emergency situation... there are no conditions for an emergency situation at all. Otherwise, I don't doubt if there is a terrorist attack on Temelín, so of course it deserves an emergency when immediate measures are needed to protect citizens, but this is not the current situation. So now you're promoting it at a point where it actually sounds totalitarian, that it's basically an otherwise-named emergency situation. And even without limitation. Yes, based on the criticism of the SPD, you have tabled an amendment that maybe the validity should be limited until November. But again - this is evidence that you have sewed it with a hot needle, and such essential things, where you restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens, we simply cannot push in that legislative emergency. Or you, you can't push them. The petitioner did not even try to explain, which is the government, why this legislation should be shifted, because it is now valid until 28 February, and why the standard standards contained in the Public Health Act are currently not sufficient. Although in two years the pandemic is well described and we have learned to live with it - well, we have learned to live with it, I quote the institute of lawyers here, I think we have not learned to live with it completely, we would like to return to normal life; this is not my quote, it is a quote from lawyers - so there is still no epidemic threshold and other conditions under which it seems necessary to introduce restrictive antiepidemic measures. The extension of the pandemic law should have been the means of the ultima ratio, the pandemic law should not have become part of our rule of law or our normal lives. This is what needs to be realized that you are basically pushing something here in this legislative emergency that should not have been in the Czech legal order at all from the start. You're actually making it sound like a minister in quotation marks can point his finger at it if I simplify it, so you're making it a standard for him to point his finger at it and limit the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. You're making it the perfect standard! That actually means, if you push this bill through, there's actually going to be a permanent whip hanging over the citizens, when they actually, even though they have constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, so when you, as a government, quite totalitarianly and dictatorically suddenly restrict some of their rights. And of course, I'm stressing again, it's a very sensitive moment, because a regular citizen doesn't have the strength or the money to sue you, to sue the state, that something is wrong. That's why I'm here beating the alarm, and we as SPD are simply pointing out here that you just can't and can't do this, that's pretty clear. That's just really totalitarian of what you're doing here. We also consider our criticisms - I read the analysis, and I agree with it - to the original version of the pandemic law, as set out below. Unfortunately, the practical experience with this legislation has confirmed these complaints. So, when we sum up the pandemic law, first of all, the bill, in our view, constitutes an entirely unconstitutional intervention of the legislative power in the executive power, even according to the existing case law of the Constitutional Court. [[12.30 hours]] The bill repeatedly operates with the concept of epidemic, although its legal or professional definition is missing. The fulfilment of the terms of the law, or the duration or threat of an epidemic, will never be possible in practice. And this is also an important moment, because, in fact, the impossibility of a review, when you limit someone to constitutional rights and freedoms, to some citizens, is a crazy situation. That means you don't really give an appeal. So you're just gonna destroy lives based on some decision from the center and citizens basically... Nor will it be possible to review it in practice, which is therefore completely insane. And I'm really warning you about this because I'm saying again, and I'm going to point it out to the government members of that five-wheeler, and sometimes you won't need Members, and you can get into exactly the situation where you're going to enforce law, and no one will hear you. And that's what you need to think about. Because it's a famous proverb from the start of fascism in Germany, Hitler's arrival was when it started with the arrest, and the quote, I guess, sounds like when they came for the Žid, there was no one, so no one stood up for them when they came for the Communists and the Social Democrats, that's what it was named for, and then when they came for the man himself, there was no one to stand up for him. That's exactly what it is that one of these government MPs, or all of you, 108 of them, has lost track of everyday life. That people just have the right to live their normal lives, and on the contrary, we should guarantee them and guard democracy and freedom here. Let's move on. The bill opens up a huge scope for enforcement of interference in the integrity of the human body and for introducing experimental procedures in the exercise of state power, contrary to general moral and ethical principles, enshrined in international conventions, which bind the Czech Republic, for example, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Being in connection with the application of biology and medicine, which is the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine No. 96/2001 Sb. Therefore, as far as the general complaints about the pandemic law are concerned, the bill completely ignores existing legal institutes for the protection of public health, in particular the so-called pandemic plan, which exists, for example, in cases of new influenza virus mutations and which is based on expert opinions, see this Government Resolution No. 682 of 14. 9. 2011. At the same time, the pandemic plan should be the main instrument of the state in dealing with any epidemiological situation. Yet the government has not used the existing instrument to date. It is also a question of whether the pandemic plan was even updated by the government because it was a big topic two years ago or a year ago that the then Minister Adam Vojtěch did not actually update. But either way, what I said is true. Another particular complaint. Again, I say to Mr President that I am trying to justify why this should not be in a legislative emergency. So there's another complaint. In our opinion, the bill does not bring anything fundamentally new from a positive point of view. All measures can be dealt with either under emergency conditions - if there really is such a situation here, which is not here - or a state of danger, or through measures by the Ministry of Health or regional health stations under the Public Health Act. I'm reminding you again, because here, I've noticed, I don't know who it was anymore, I've been in some kind of debate, and one of the government MPs there says that unlike the SPD, they want to protect the health of the citizens, or something like that. Well, just complete nonsense, lie on the lie again. Even bad for bad, I'd say. Argumentative emptyness. And I said there's a law on public health, because that's the way things are normally handled, and professionally, so why is this political influence happening here? In order for politicians to decide directly politically, what should people do and restrict their constitutional rights? This moment is, in principle, unacceptable, you might say. That's what the House is here to discuss. We're here to discuss everything properly, not a legislative emergency. Let's move on. Instead of allowing the public authorities and the bodies of the integrated rescue system to work effectively to deal with crisis situations, the bill is primarily a new repressive instrument, enabling the rights and freedoms of the executive authorities to be reduced inadequately, and even to such restrictions, it is using the integrated rescue system, including the army and the police. Another complaint. And so this is, I must say, as a big problem and I have already pointed out, even though I have mentioned it on Prima's television on this subject, that the bill significantly limits the right to compensation for damage caused by antiepidemic measures, especially those of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and, on the contrary, favours e.g. energy, telecommunications, and similar corporations, extends the time during which the damaged person can receive compensation and makes it completely unreasonable to apply the claim for damages. So the damages, that's really a problem. Because even in light of what I said, for example, the law here operates with the notion of an epidemic, although its legal professional definition is lacking, so that the fulfilment of the conditions of the law's duration in the development of an epidemic will never be possible in practice to review, so that is one thing, and at the same time the law restricts the right to compensation for damage, especially for people from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. That means, basically, it's an incredible dictatorship, I repeat, the incredible perversion of this five-calice government, that actually decent working people here who need to make a living, go to work, so basically the government tells them not to do business, they can't go to work, based on vague definitions and formulas, without any basic responsibility. Well, if somebody can do something, some kind of damages, that's actually going to pay for it by the tax workers themselves, because that politician out of his pocket, the one who decided it, that's not going to pay, which is really crazy completely. That's crazy. That's crazy. I would like to see how many members of the government coalition, when I say this, basically put it in the context of how many members of the government coalition would now vote in favour of that pandemic law if they had material responsibility. [[12.40 hours]] And I'll give you an example, I know it's hard to imagine, but for politicians, because at the moment that maybe a waitress or a salesman causes, his cash is different from his sales, the cash from the revenue they have on their computer, so the manager wants to make up for the difference that night. That's the real world. But here, in case you're voting here, you want to vote on this pandemic law, in case you cause anybody, you limit the right to damages, the state would still pay the compensation. I would like you to pay for it, those of you who voted in favour. And if that happens, then we're going to mediaize it, so let the people who voted for it pay for it. Why do we have to pay it from our taxes? A citizen, a member of the SPD, if we disagree. A member of the SPD, for example... would rather help, maybe in contributing to his grandmother, grandfather, children. Yeah? He goes to work. Of course, an even greater paradox about this point is that this current government coalition - and now don't interrupt me, Mr Vice-President, because it will concern the matter - you have rejected our bill to end the abuse of benefits that are inadaptable. That's what we've got here, the law, we've handed it over again. And why am I talking about this? Because actually the so-called inadaptables, which is the definition that they are skilled people who do not long-term job-seekers and abuse the system and their life program, even though they are able to work, they are on welfare benefits, that is the definition of inadaptable, skilled people who do not long-term job-seekers, of course, short-term unemployment has every right, but let's get to the point, so they're actually laughing, they're inadaptable, because they're basically not going into the job anyway, so they're still at home anyway, but you're actually going to limit the right to compensation for damage to those working decent people who go to work, yeah, and they're going to pay it to themselves after they're desperately winning a trial after x years. And the politicians are laughing. So even from this point of view, it's like a big... it's just misunderstood. Let's move on. I'm going to go back to the subject, or, to that point, I'm going to recap here, so that what happened with Vice-President Kovářová doesn't happen to me, because she probably didn't listen to why I'm here, why she shouldn't be in a legislative emergency, I'm going to point out every two minutes, three minutes, that I'm listing points here, that there are so many complaints and so many problems in your proposal, that we just don't agree with it being in a legislative emergency. Of course, we do not agree with the law as such, but it is the debate, now it is open to debate about whether or not there are conditions, it is supposed to be in a legislative emergency or not. Let's move on. The bill opens up space to restrict the right to the protection of personal data and privacy when it imposes more powers on the Ministry of Health than the authorities involved in criminal proceedings in similar cases. Next point. The draft law is approved without further expert discussion and may lead to paralysis of the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic in our opinion. Well, that's also a serious matter, because, in fact, on the basis of the existing, existing measures, we know that there are about 30 judgments of the courts that have violated these government measures as illegal, in some cases unconstitutional. And so far, that was based only on the current pandemic law, which was enforced by the government of Andrej Babiš, yes, along with the votes of the current government five-wheeler. As I said, the SPD movement was the only MP club that voted against a year ago, and it turned out that it was the right thing to do. And now, of course, those citizens and entrepreneurs are suing and asking for damages on the basis of the judgments of those courts that have identified those government measures, many of those government measures, as illegal or unconstitutional. And right now, that's the important thing... I just need to explain here why this could lead to the paralysis of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court. Because in a much wider way, you're actually converting those provisions, those restrictions apply to citizens from an emergency state, basically about 95 percent of them are converted into that law. That means, of course, it follows from the logic of the matter that now that the administrative court has basically been overwhelmed by the dozens of lawsuits, what does it do now? Especially in the light of the way I am trying to explain to you in very detail here, and I think it deserves it, the restriction, the restrictions you proposed restricting constitutional rights and freedoms, so that we can really delineate ourselves very strongly and in detail and devote time to this, so it can really lead to the paralysis of the Supreme Administrative Court and the culprit will only be your pasculi, your law, which is simply a pasculi, and there is so much legal reproach that I have never even experienced it. Yeah, I've seen here that there were hundreds of amendments to some of the laws, but they were like those kind of technical laws, the construction law, or maybe there was something about the environment, etc., where they really were different parameters and different there were like these particular things, these changelings. But I don't think I've ever seen so many legal complaints and constitutional claims against a law. And that's exactly what opens the door to those lawsuits, for those legitimate lawsuits, of course. And here I am again pointing out that you should, figuratively speaking, I would like to pay literally, all of you who will vote for the law when the citizens win the courts on that basis. Of course, everyone here is going to keep quiet from their own coalition and not report to it, I know that already, but that's not fair, of course, that's wrong. So, specific conclusions. In general, the proposal and Section 1 of the Act. The bill only responds to one specific situation. Its main effect is, moreover, the announcement of a new type of so-called crisis situation, the so-called state of pandemic emergency. The proposal therefore does not only create a new legal crisis institute but introduces it directly, de facto declares it. Such a solution must be rejected for many reasons. The proposal lacks a sufficient generality, in addition to the major intervention of the legislative power in the executive power. The proposal presumes the existence of a particular situation - a covid-19 epidemic caused by a new coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 - and then combines a number of restrictive impacts on civil rights and freedoms, although such an act rather belongs to the power of executives. This significantly limits or deprives citizens of the right to review which they would be entitled to in other similar situations. So that's what I've been talking about. So, of course, your pandemic law is an extremely dangerous totalitarian law for citizens, against which the citizens will actually be very hard to defend themselves, the disabled citizens, to whom you will cause the damage, and it is not only material damage, it can also be relationships, about relationships, etc., that, of course, when you restrict someone's funeral or wedding, it also limits the constitutional rights of citizens. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not gonna repeat myself. But I'm asking you repeatedly, like you government MPs, what makes you think you're proposing such a crazy bill? How could you even think of that? That's terrible. That's terrible. I never thought I'd be sitting here with a majority of Members who advocate totalitarianism towards citizens. Well, the hints have already been made - but I'll be right back, Mr. Vice-President, on the subject. Because I'm not surprised when the SPD, as you know, is the only party that enforces the referendum law, and because of that, the members of the government coalition are calling us an undemocratic party, so I'm used to turning over democracy and non-democracy, and this pandemic law is proof of that. Mr President Excellent through the President, I warn you once again that a person who has a priority right does not have to speak to the point. I am here, on the basis of my goodwill, to discuss why this is a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, if you have noticed, I'm not jumping into your speech, and I'll arrange the room for myself. That means continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u19	Okay, okay. Thank you. And I'm trying to be fair enough that certain political branches, in this speech, I'm trying to keep it in line. If you don't like it being long, that's your business. You're not supposed to design this kind of paquilas. [[Let's hear it for the SPD.]] If the lawyers didn't have so many complaints about this, I wouldn't have to stand here at all. And if you yourself hadn't proposed amendments to your own government proposal because, based on the pressure of the SPD, you realized that there were a lot of things wrong. I wouldn't have to talk about it here either, if you hadn't suggested anything yourself, I have nothing to comment on. This is totally incredible. Let's move on. This view that it simply removes your bill, significantly restricts or deprives citizens of the right to review, so it confirms, for example, the provisions of part nine of the bill on its effectiveness. It shows that the law is to have limited time, up to 28 years. 2. 2022. However, this restriction applies only to the provisions of Sections 1 to 7 of the draft law. A number of other provisions are intended to continue to be effective, including, for example, restrictions on the right to compensation and so on and so on. It can be concluded from this that the Chamber of Deputies seems to be preparing space - but the Chamber of Deputies, of course, means the government majority, not the SPD, we are not preparing this space - here you are preparing space for declaring another state of pandemic emergency, for which, of course, the law will have to be passed. From this point of view, the proposal can be considered as unconstitutional, for example, the Constitutional Court finds the file mark ÚS 24/04 or the file mark ÚS 24/08. The bill - your proposal for a pandemic law - has repeatedly linked the various consequences with the existence or risk of an epidemic of a particular disease without, however, any binding legal definition of the term. I've already talked about this. There's no legal definition of an epidemic. So basically, it can't even be reviewed, and citizens can't logically defend themselves against something that doesn't have a legal definition, but you're introducing it here. In the context of recent influenza epidemics, the principle that an epidemic can be regarded as a state - the principle was generally set - can be regarded as an epidemic where the number of 1,600 to 1,800 sick persons per 100,000 inhabitants was demonstrated. Such a condition has not yet been achieved by the Czech Republic in connection with covid-19 disease. Moreover, there is still no objective assessment for this disease to date to determine whether its spread has reached the limit of epidemic or pandemic, and the assumption that covid-19 disease has reached the level of epidemic is completely subjective and unreviewable without determining specific parameters, as is the case with other respiratory diseases. Please note that in the case of influenza, standard medical criteria are used to identify a person as sick, namely subjective and objective symptoms of the disease. In case of covid disease, people with only positive results of today's tests are often referred to as sick or infected, often without any symptoms. Why am I talking about this? Now, I don't want to discuss these medical parameters here, but I want to point out the clear, logical consideration that you, in the pandemic law, are talking about linking the various consequences to the epidemic, but how is that to be assessed? But at the same time, you want to restrict the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. So this point also needs to be discussed in detail. And it can't be done here, and boom and legislative emergency. Today, you're done, you're done, and you're going home. That's why I'm talking about it. The bill interferes with the very fundamental spheres of democratic rule of law. It was adopted in a so-called state of legislative emergency without the possibility of a detailed review of its impact on the most important areas of the rule of law and social life. Well, that's why I'm trying to explain it here, too, that this should be widely discussed. And I'm saying again, the SPD will, of course, be against it. But just responsibly - responsibly - the government's five-caliber should approach that. And in such a way, simply such a fundamental restriction on constitutional law - this cannot be discussed in this way at all. Probably according to the criteria of the new government five-wheeler, yes. But that's not normal. Moreover, there is no reason, in our opinion and in the opinion of the experts in the current situation, for this to be a legislative emergency, to provide sufficient solutions, whether through the so-called crisis measures of the government or emergency measures of the Ministry of Health. Moreover, the question is - and that is exactly what lawyers are asking here, and I agree with them - whether the Chamber of Deputies is even entitled to discuss this in a legislative emergency. Which I would have gone back to the beginning of my speech, because you could actually be in a legislative emergency... in a legislative emergency, a government bill can only be discussed if - I quote - exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened or if the State is threatened with significant economic damage. But that's not here right now. That's not here right now. So you're actually literally taking advantage of that paragraph of the Rules of Procedure on legislative distress. This isn't the place. Again, I'm saying that the surrounding states are already thinking about loosening up, some even canceling all the measures, returning to normal lives. And there are no exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is facing significant economic damage are threatened. That's why I said this at the very beginning of my performance, and I pointed it out. It just isn't. And anyone who wants to preserve the rule of law and democracy must simply oppose this vote in that legislative emergency and against discussing this in a legislative emergency, no matter what they think about it, about the law. That's why I wanted to ask you again to pull it back so you can pull it off today so you can end the negotiations and end the abuse of the institute of legislative emergency. Because, I hope we're hearing, the sentence is pretty short, that it really doesn't work out for the first listener, even in terms of legal analysis, because I already have legal analysis here. Now, when the lawsuits go to this pandemic law of yours, take what happens when the courts drop it. Well, it's gonna be a sham and a disgrace! So even from this point of view, it would be really good to agree on this, and I say again, we understand it when you download it and, of course, if you stop, in this way, completely incomprehensible, illogically pushing through the law to restrict the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, even though it is not a topic at all today such as that in society, there is no extraordinary situation here. In this context, it is absolutely necessary to recall that although the government since March 2020 - that was still the government of Andrej Babiš - has combined the concept of emergency with interventions in fundamental rights and freedoms protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and international conventions, in fact this merger is wrong. There is nothing to prevent the government from declaring an emergency with territorial restrictions, declaring it without interference with the rights and freedoms of the population only for the purpose of ensuring a more effective procedure by the state and so on. [[13.00 hours]] This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in Again another moment that just needs to be discussed calmly, not in a legislative emergency. It is very doubtful whether it is possible by law to regulate the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic set out directly in Article 39 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It is also necessary to draw attention to the quite absurd situation which the bill will introduce when, in accordance with Section 1 (1) of the Chamber of Deputies, there is a proposal to abolish the state of pandemic emergency. 3 of the draft law requires approval of at least 1/5 of all Members, i.e. at least 40 Members. In accordance with Article 39 of the Constitution, an absolute majority of all Members present, i.e. at least 34 Members, will suffice to abolish or amend the entire law. K § 2. In principle, the article copies the provisions of the Public Health Act with several fundamental differences. It allows the Ministry of Health and Regional Hygiene Stations to order very general emergency measures with national application in a number of areas where it has been possible to do so in the case-law of the courts only by means of emergency measures declared under the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic. And so this is an extremely problematic moment, which is actually going on with all the discussions. The restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms can thus be re-established on the basis of this government proposal for a pandemic law only by means of legal authorisation, not by virtue of the authorisation provided for in the constitutional law, without the existence of an emergency situation, which, in our view, is a situation contrary to the principles of democratic rule of law. Well, that's one of the most important things we at the SPD are trying to draw attention to. This is precisely so that totalitarianism, dictatorship can not occur here in the Czech Republic, so that is why we have an institute here, therefore the constitution cannot be changed by simple majority, but it must be 120 Members in the House, 2/3 Senate and it is not that simple. Exactly so that some dictator or someone with totalitarian manners doesn't come here and couldn't just because he's in the government, touch the constitution guaranteed by citizens' rights and freedoms. That is why the institute of this emergency is based on the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic, and there are certain procedures that make it difficult to apply the one from the dictatorship of a politician or government. And that's exactly the problem. And once again, I have already mentioned it here, and here it deserves to be stressed that you actually copy about 95 percent of the measures possible under emergency conditions into the ordinary law, which you called the pandemic law, and you are extending the current pandemic law, which, therefore, Andrej Babiš and his government have passed with the help of your votes, but you are extending it in a completely unacceptable way. So he and the law itself, as I said, and the SPD were against it, and it was unacceptable for us, and time gave us the truth, of course, even the courts gave us the truth, the judgments of the courts, dozens of judgments already, but apparently the governments here don't care at all. So this is the moment that's absolutely crucial, and here it really is, it's really a problem that you want to push through this in a legislative emergency. Because either there are conditions for an emergency, and then there are some parameters, so that it is as little as possible, so that it cannot be an option to restrict the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, and I have already named these examples here, or there is no state that would require an emergency, which is the current state of affairs, for example, so that politicians cannot afford, not even a government majority, to restrict the constitutional rights of citizens just as quickly as possible. That's what you do in dictatorship. But I would like to live in a democratic society and support a democratic society. And that's really, this is actually one of the key moments that I think is probably the most annoying thing about citizens in principle of this law. And as I was saying, Prime Minister Pekarová Adamová of the TOP 09 even confirmed two days ago, on Sunday, in the Prima Party, that so that the government would not implement an emergency, as if they wanted to do a pandemic law, which they could limit people as much as in an emergency. Well, that's an entirely unacceptable consideration for this. So it's either that or it's not. But there is nothing in between that you can restrict the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution so that they can normally live in the Czech Republic, as if you hide under the cape of the ordinary law and restrict the same freedoms that are only possible under the constitutional law. Well, that's crazy. That's crazy! So I never expected to live in the House - or in Parliament, because I was also a senator of the year - at all such a terrible moment. Article 2 (2) (a) 2. The measures which the said authorities may issue are listed here. Just by way of example, we make a few reservations about them. Point (b): It explicitly extends the scope of the restrictions that those authorities may impose, although this authorisation has so far been the subject of discussions. Thus, the draft law substantially extends the powers of public health authorities - the proposal for that government pandemic law - although the objectives of the bill can be implemented in a different, more constitutionally conformed and more gentle way for civil liberties. That's what I've been talking about. Point (c): This is a completely absurd discriminatory provision which explicitly regulates specific areas of the overall cutting-off of business activities without any scientific argument. And so this is an extremely interesting moment that deserves attention. So you want to regulate specific areas, selected explicitly, without any scientific justification, why just these areas - barbershops, hairdressers, pedicures, manicures or solariums, providing cosmetic, massage, regenerative or reconditioning services or operating a trade where the integrity of the skin is violated. So can someone scientifically provide why only these and not others, or why these and why not others? Of course we are against this, I would like to stress this, but here I am just saying, why have you decided to bully and persect explicitly barbershops, owners and barbers' workers, hairdressers, pedicures, manicures, solariums, cosmetic, massage, regeneration, reconditioning services or the operation of trades where the integrity of the skin is violated? Why did you decide to persect and damage these trades explicitly? I wonder. Because any scientific argument for this is simply not why it is these and not others. Of course, from our point of view, best not to restrict it. But it's also crazy that you totally show up in advance to some groups, and now they're gonna knock and shake, when and how the disaster is gonna come to them again, even though they're investing in their little barbershops or businessmen and so on, and what's gonna happen to them again? And once again, it is in the light of the fact that we are here, for example, seeking answers, how will it be with those compensatory programs to which the government is simply very quiet and does not give answers to desperate entrepreneurs and businessmen, what will then be and what is not. So in light of this incompetence, I'm already on the alert here, because you guys have already taken thousands of people to the squad, at least, in that case, and that's why they're millions, because everyone has to go for a haircut, so it's just not like you're just gonna name a list like that. The legislation, in particular the law, should include as general a regulation as possible. In this case, it is again an example of a legal act which is more like an individual act or measure of a general nature. [[13.10 hours]] Point (d). It's the same situation, this time a discriminatory swimming pool and sauna operator. So I'm asking you again, where's the scientific argument that the swimming pool...? Nobody knows. But limit explicitly, yes. Point (i). In particular, the last part of the sentence repeats the same mistake that the courts have made in the past. Paragraph 69 (b) of the CRR. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) a law on the protection of public health, which has been repeatedly abused for its generality in the last year. But that's what the courts have been dealing with, we've been talking about this here two years ago. That's the wording of "and other antiepidemic measures." That's exactly what the government had a problem with almost two years ago, when basically without... and that's what the courts were contradicting, isn't it? They blamed the government for hiding basically everything under the phrase "and other antiepidemic measures." But it's just not possible to do that, because there's this exact contradiction with the constitution where people have the right to work, do business, social life, private social life, to educate themselves, and it's just not possible to show up on the basis of the will of someone, and suddenly under these and other antiepidemic measures to hide something that someone just likes, and actually those people pay for it afterwards. So the wording of "and other antiepidemic measures" is a quote of the formulation, without any limitation or clarification, thus effectively renders the other provisions unnecessary, since under it almost everything can be subsumed. And that is also an incredible problem, and it is an incredibly totalitarian dictatorial practice towards citizens. What can I say? I keep saying that word here, it's scary. According to this law, the Ministry of Health or Regional Hygiene Stations, which proposes government five-calices, can de facto issue any order under this provision without having to and could prove that the conditions for its extradition are fulfilled. Of course, especially in the absence of a definition of the concept of epidemic. Point (m). Possibility to order testing of employees and other workers for the presence of covid-19 disease is a completely unprecedented intervention in the right to work, protection of human integrity, protection of privacy and personal data etc. Furthermore, the legislator in a state of legislative emergency could not see to it the consequences that this provision could have on employment relations. So the legislator, we mean the government's five-calice. In addition, that provision encounters two quite fundamental substantive problems: we do not know a single scientific evidence that any testing of unmarked persons could have any effect on the emergence and spread or destruction of a covid epidemic; they do not exist on the Czech market in our opinion, and we do not know about them on a global scale, testing techniques that can be carried out by non-professional persons who verify the presence of covid disease. Next, let's go to Section 3. I think I must emphasise here again, because Mr President has changed in the meantime, that I am here to justify why this should not be in the legislative emergency. That's the discussion. I think there are so many reasons that I am really calling again on the government's five-calice leader, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, to withdraw this bill. To withdraw it and not push it here in a legislative emergency, because it is completely insane, crazy, totally unacceptable, even in this situation an unacceptable intervention to restrict constitutional rights and the freedoms of citizens. There is no situation here, and I am stressing this again, which would be... when exceptional circumstances are essential in the Czech Republic, in which the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the state is threatened with significant economic damage are significantly threatened. That is the definition of when the government can propose something in a legislative emergency. And that's not here. On the contrary, measures are loosening up, and you are suggesting more and more widespread restrictions on people here. Once again, I would like to stress that your argument to be prepared in the fall, so let us give you here a blank check to restrict constitutional rights, to bypass the constitution, to bypass any possible emergency situation, so it really can only attack a dictator. Just total-minded people. Who owns them to limit the citizens who pay them. Well, the argument is wrong, because it's because you're proposing it in a legislative emergency, so you're blaming yourself, I've already said that you can do it here in August. When you say what's next in the fall. The question is, will the government still be like this in the fall? I wish you wouldn't, that you would fall apart, of course, that you wouldn't be here anymore. But, of course, that's a different debate. But that's legitimate. This is a legitimate political approach because there is a political competition. Well, if Minister Rakušan didn't abuse the Ministry by saying about the SPD that we're saying misinformation, and then it turns out that their preferences are falling because of the scandals, and then it turns out that the misinformation is that we say that the government, Mrs. Černochová, and Mr. Lipavský, should not drag the Czech Republic into the war in Ukraine by considering sending troops and sending ammo. So we told the truth, and he's been using the Ministry desperately against the SPD, against the truth, because he himself has butter on his head and hasn't explained the financing of STAN from opaque sources. All right, more arguments. Section... So you are already even, already some ministers, already even so far fallen to the bottom, that even the Ministry is already using even against political competition. But we want this political competition to be fair. To discuss and argue with each other and to use the Rules of Procedure Act democratically. So Section 3.3. It would certainly be possible to consider positive the need to state in the measures the justification for the content. However, this obligation already includes the current wording of the Public Health Act, at least at the level of settled case-law of the Court. This is not news, it is an explicit anchoring of what is already in the legal system. Yeah, but there's a certain... Here's the problem. It's nice of you to write it down, but here they are at all, the law itself is already a problem. So I'm already doing a little bit of detail here, we're doing a little bit of work here, but it's just that when you write the law like this... it's kind of a pasquil that you're... you're already putting your own amendments here, government MPs, into that government proposal, which is completely ridiculous, how you admit to yourself that you're putting a whole lot of pasquil in here and that it's wrong. So, of course, the problem is that if the law is miswritten and you limit something that is not to be restricted, then of course, logically, you can't even explain it. So it's like you've written it down here, but basically the result is wrong just as completely, because there's nothing you can explain that can't be explained logically. So that's the problem. Section 6. In conjunction with the wide range of emergency measures envisaged by the draft law, the possibility of involving the integrated rescue system component in their implementation may constitute a substantial extension of the powers of the Ministry of Health in practice. This is clearly not just about the basic components of the IZS. So it's more professional than that, a reminder like that. [[13.20 hours]] The provisions The Government's draft law perfectly limits the claim for damages incurred by legal and natural persons in the state of the pandemic emergency. It applies not only to the damage caused by measures issued under this bill, but also to the damage caused by measures pursuant to Section 69 of the Public Health Act, regardless of whether it was issued during or outside the emergency situation. It should be stressed that at present the prevailing part of the professional legal public is inclined to believe that the compensation granted by the provisions of Section 36 of the Crisis Act also applies in times of emergency to the damage caused by measures under the Public Health Act. By adopting this bill, therefore, there will be not the introduction of the possibility of compensation for damage, but a fundamental restriction on it. The restrictions consist in particular of the following: A loss of profit is excluded from the refund. This means, in relation to entrepreneurs, that they will only have the opportunity to compensate for their costs. At the same time, profit represents their income for entrepreneurs, because the costs are, zero to zero will pass. This means that the bill deprives entrepreneurs of their right to income and thus leaves them fully under the State aid scheme. And I think that you really need to stop here for a while because you, as a government, the five-calice ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and the Pirates, want to actually directly, contrary to the Constitution, because the right to do business in the Constitution even, it is written that citizens have the right to do business, it is directly in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the Constitution, so you want to limit them on the basis of the ordinary law, which is contrary to the Constitution, but at the same time you deprive them of entitlement to income, because loss of income is excluded from compensation. And basically businessmen, you cover their rent. But what are they supposed to live on, the businessmen and the businessmen? So, basically, you're going to keep people from working, but at the same time, you're going to make a full reference to state aid, which, as we know, even to repeated questions here, the new ministers can't answer what's going to happen with these compensations. The ones that were already promised, by the way. So that's... Yeah, well, if there's any capable government that's able to say yes when it's A, B, but your incompetence so far is showing up, which means, basically, citizens here can't expect anything good. And I'll come back to the point that your only topic here in January is, your entire government five-calice, is the pandemic law, correspondence choice and national bird competition, instead of coming up with solutions to increase energy and food prices for citizens, like the Polish and Hungarian government, which are already promoting concrete solutions. So here you really can't expect a working man to expect anything good at this point. And as far as I'm concerned, what kind of costs I'm talking about. Because, as I was saying, on the basis of your bill, it turns out that entrepreneurs will only be able to compensate for their costs. That means they're actually gonna lose any income. Because part of that profit is logically income to them. So such costs can then be distributed with some simplification: wage costs, yes, that can be agreed with regard to workers' protection, energy costs, operators' services and the like. This basically means that the bill does not allow entrepreneurs to compensate for loss of profit, but guarantees the revenues of energy, telecommunications and similar companies. At the same time, their prices at the time of the profit certainly include additional costs. The profit certainly includes other costs, which often involve the profit of third parties again. And the cost of antiepidemic means is excluded from the compensation. Of course, legal or natural persons are not entitled to compensation for costs incurred in connection with the purchase or use of protective, washing, cleaning or disinfection products, although their use may be ordered under the draft law. So, in this regard, it is also a fundamental restriction on compensation compared to the current situation. And we in the SPD are clearly saying that if the state has to order something, then it has to pay those citizens and companies, too, if they have to. Because then those citizens have no choice. It's just plain obvious. So look at the way your law is, just the way it's misspelled. I'm not gonna repeat that word again. In Article 9, paragraph 2 is 3: This provision specifies the procedure by which the injured person is to claim compensation. This procedure goes significantly beyond the existing requirements of the legislation, making it difficult for damaged damages to be effectively achieved. We consider it quite absurd, in particular, the obligation to state - I quote - the beginning of the passing of the time in which the law ceases. How can a layman find out this fact, and what does that even mean? In Article 9, paragraph 2 is This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 orders the injured person to prove that the formation could not be prevented or prevented. But how is the victim to prove such a fact? Moreover, the damage is reduced by, among other things, a return financial assistance. This means, therefore, that although the person is obliged to repay the aid in the future, he is not entitled to compensation for the damage caused by this. So you can see how this bill is completely unthinkable. More importantly, there is a problem, and I would like to point out here again that it can cause really fatal damage to our citizens. Fatal, non-refundable damage to our working and decent citizens. It doesn't do anything to the inadaptables because they have the shots. The so-called inadaptable ones. So the government here purposefully... I don't understand what's gotten into that government, that they just want to do damage like that, unclear rules and these restrictions, decent people. In Section 10: And again I say that I am speaking here in the discussion on why it should not be in a legislative emergency. I know that government MPs, that we may not be able to convince them of these arguments. But at least that's what I hope the public hears. And they're going to give us the truth that there's just a law that restricts citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms at a time when it's not necessary, and the government is saying that there's just so much legal complaint that I even have to explain it here for three hours, that it just can't be done here to push it in a legislative emergency. And again, I'm calling you to pull it back. You can do it. Please withdraw the law, please withdraw it. Download this extraordinary meeting, vote simply, we can do this simply, now we will vote on it, or we will vote on it in time for the next debate, if you agree to make it a legislative emergency. You can vote no, even government MPs, just one press button. One press. One press is enough for you not to be in a legislative emergency. And at the same time, if the agenda for this meeting is approved, if necessary, and it is up to you to press no, we do not approve the agenda for this meeting, and we will end this meeting quite elegantly, and we will end this meeting quite elegantly, and you will simply come up with your proposal. Yes, you can suggest what you want, so can we. The question is, will this be discussed? You have most of it. So you just have to come up with this proposal, you just have to come up with a normal process, and make it here just widely discussed. The real question is, why are you pushing it at all costs? If we have laws on how to take care of citizens, the Public Health Act, so they don't have to worry about ending something on the 28th, and we can do without that totalitarian pandemic law. [[13.30 hours]] So now I specifically suggested to you here what would be the optimal procedure, which means voting on a legislative emergency, you press no. Of course, I can't order you here, I just suggest that you don't make excuses in the media or somewhere, that it can't be done, that this is an extraordinary meeting, so there's nothing you can do about it. No. A double push of a button is enough. That means, against legislative distress, of course, it will not be in a legislative emergency, but at the same time it would be optimal to end the meeting, because then it doesn't make sense, and press no on the agenda of the meeting, you do not approve of the agenda of the meeting as the SPD does. And we're done today, done - done. But, of course, that doesn't have to end for you, because you're going to propose the law in the standard process, you're going to put it in the standard way, and you're going to put it back on the program, but at least the process will be different, and the public will be able to engage in the discussion, and the experts will be able to participate in the discussion. And I think that the democratic debate deserves that. And, of course, we're against the law, I'm already saying that in advance. But at least I see that you would also like to get that space, I feel, some of you, at least a few of you, because by putting up your own government proposal, the government Members are already putting up amendments, which actually recognizes that the proposal is poorly written, and there should even be a big changeling now, which again wants to cross over a number of restrictions, no one knows about it anymore, basically there is no room to study it in detail and discuss it with experts, even it should actually be discussed properly with the professional organisations involved. And you're touching... You're here to limit barbers, hairdressers, pools, swimming pools, no one's discussing them, these people are desperate, they're texting us. So it should be normal, and that would at least be fair. All right, you got a hundred and eight, but that would be a normal fair approach. And that, of course, when I look at the seriousness of the limitations you put in conflict with the constitution, of course, it would also be adequate to just pull it off today. Two push buttons, and it's done. It's done, and we don't have to make any sense of ourselves here, and we should get this done. Well, I don't consider it unnecessary to convince you here, it's my job, and I'm defending our constituents and freedom and democracy with all my might, and I'm going to do it for the future. But I think we might be able to get to know each other about this thing. As for the next paragraph, which is also a problem, it is Section 9 para. Four, when... That's what I've been talking about, that's about the return financial aid. So Section 10. In some cases, the draft law introduces draconian sanctions in the event of failure to comply with emergency measures. Yes, and this has also been discussed. It's been discussed here, too. It needs to be said out loud. For example, it can be saved for violation... so the government wants us to put it to an address. So Petr Fiala's government wants to impose the rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the constitution, so, in violation of the terms and conditions of operation of mass funds, restrictions on the activities of shops or services, conditions of events, violation of the obligation to wear protective or to use detergents, cleaning products, disinfectants, etc., in this particular case only in the provision of health or social services, the government wants to impose a fine of up to CZK three million. Three million crowns for legal persons and the CFI and one million crowns for non-business individuals. Yes, I've heard again that they want to cut back, because the SPD here is creating pressure along with the citizens, because the government has gone completely insane. Three million! Three million working people! Three million people who go to work! Jim wants to do better if the government doesn't stop them from doing business, that they won't be able to do hairdressers... A hairdresser won't be able to go to work, she needs to make a living, she has a family, even if she doesn't have it, she just needs to have money, so she wants to go to work, and you normally want to go to a hairdresser, a hairdresser who cuts people, works from morning to night on her feet, so you want to give her up to three million fines for not giving her trade restrictions or services that she can't go to work, so you still want to give a businessman, a businessman. I think you're crazy about your arrogance. Like you're a normal, government coalition? You're threatening a $3 million fine to a working man, a businessman you're cutting down on? Well, that's totally unbelievable. Well, that's crazy, I gotta say. And for non-business individuals a million crowns a fine! I would like to explain what it means that you want to fine up to a million crowns a fine, a physical person to non-business people. I've already explained that to the entrepreneurs on the example of the tradesmen. So, for example, a retired grandmother, a pensioner who doesn't have a drape or wash her hands with disinfectant if I simplify it, but I don't have to simplify it, that's your paragraph, which is why we're arguing that you have it all wrong and that it's a pasculi, so you want to fine the pensioners a million crowns up to, you're threatening... Where's he gonna get that? A million tickets, for example, to a senior or senior, like an 80-year-old pensioner, for not wearing a drape at the time or using disinfectant? You guys are crazy! You're crazy. Don't be mad at me. I think it is not an expression contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the House, it is not vulgar. [[Someone on the left: it's not.]] Yeah, well, the doctors here also say that crazy isn't vulgar. So it's unbelievable. And here, Mr President, let me think a little bit and take a little bit of a rhetorical break, but a few seconds to make enough room for all of us to think about what this government five-wheeler is proposing. A million fines for non-business individuals, that is to say, a disabled person. But anyone, even if they're a working man. A million crowns? And three million crowns to the mistress of a businessman or a gentleman who needs to make a living and go to work? You guys are crazy. This is the crazy government. Yes, I heard that just like I said, you're considering a reduction again. True, those fines were enforced by the last government of Andrej Babiš. That's right, let's say that again. We voted against. The SPD was against it because these draconian fines, somebody's gone completely crazy again. Well, we know who we're talking about, it's a government five-caliber. Terrible, terrible, terrible. I must therefore say that - and here I am also pointing out, as I have already said, that the bill at the same time makes it impossible to purchase respirators, drapes, disinfectants, etc. apply as damage. That means, you've gotten yourself into a clink, you've totally gotten decent working people into a clink. But even those who aren't, of course, working in the sense that they're, like, retired or disabled people, I'm not talking about the inadaptable ones, you're helping them. § 12. Decisions on certain offences are to be entered in the criminal record. Well, that's another power. In such a case, the perpetrator of such an offence would not be considered to be faulty for the purposes of other proceedings and the like. So you even... Well, that's really incredible about your pandemic law. So the decision about some of the offences you're proposing here unconstitutionally will restrict citizens to their basic human rights, so you even want this covid of bullying, which isn't appropriate right now, or before that it was done in this way, yes, protection of the health of citizens yes, but the surface measures... After all, the courts have given us the truth, I'm not going to carry wood into the woods, there are dozens of judgments that have disrupted it as unconstitutional, illegal. [[13.40 hours]] We all agree on the need to protect citizens and protect their health, and we say that we aim to protect vulnerable groups. We all want to protect the health of citizens, but we have different opinions on how to do this precisely. So the decision about some offences is incredible, because you want to file a criminal record, make the punished persons of those who - and who will no longer be faultless - will not follow your orders and the pandemic law. Of course, such an adjustment is quite disproportionate from our point of view, but also from the point of view of lawyers. As regards Section The draft law transfers jurisdiction, jurisdiction, to decide to abolish emergency measures by the Ministry of Health, even those issued under the Public Health Act, from regional courts to the Supreme Administrative Court. The application also precludes the lodging of an appeal, i.e. introducing one-instance proceedings. In practice, this completely unverified model - similar proceedings are known only in exceptional situations such as some disputes in matters of electoral or in matters relating to the activities of political parties or movements - in our opinion, it can lead to the overwhelming of the Supreme Administrative Court as well as the Constitutional Court, as the only possible defense against the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court will remain an entirely extraordinary institute of constitutional complaints, which will be even more overused than it is now. In short, you're actually putting it in that law so that it's draconian fines that they're going to have a criminal record. Well, that's unbelievable what you guys are doing here. At the same time, so that an appeal could not be filed, and so on, that you would restrict even the possibility of actually defusing yourself. The problem is that, of course, the flooding of the Supreme Administrative Court is imminent here, I've already talked about it. Because of the legal reservations against your law - and now you see that I've been pursuing political reservations all along, but that's what I said here too, that's that we want freedom and democracy, and you want to chop it off, that's our political opinion, of course, the SPD, you have a different political opinion. You have so much to do with it, I don't understand how the Minister of Health Válek the Government can vote on a government law like this at all. How can they even do that? You're wasting your time here. This means that you even want to bully and persect those citizens so that they have almost no appeal. So, based on that vague law of yours, of course, it's completely offered. I say again, when, based on the current pandemic law that the government of Andrej Babiš has passed, there are already dozens of these judgments, or those courts and dozens of judgments, I suspect about thirty, or maybe even more, of course, and that pandemic law, although it also restricts citizens' rights, and we disagreed and disagreed, so you're going to tilt the whole, the emergency situation, so, of course, by logically direct intent, you can expect these measures if you implement them, that there can be even multiple of those submissions to the courts. There'll just be so many more. And as for the Constitutional Court, which is the only way to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court, who do you think of citizens as capable of filing a constitutional complaint? Even a good constitutional complaint, lawyers say six figures. It's crazy. That's crazy. That is why I am calling you once again to act democratically, to uphold the constitution. Otherwise, by the fact that the law is so poorly prepared, as I said, that it can subsequently lead to the flooding of the Supreme Administrative Court, of course only when you apply the measures, so it will also lead to an extension of the review and the extraordinary measures, because there is, of course, a certain capacity. Moreover, since these disputes are to be dealt with as a matter of priority, by the way, the paralysis of any other proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court can easily occur, by the way. So not only are you putting citizens in prison completely, and I'm stressing again that no one is saying an argument: yes, but we only need to. So we're a democracy, and there's a constitution, isn't there? It's impossible for a politician to have one if he wants, so if necessary, I show up and restrict citizens. I can't. Again, I say that's the will and the dictatorship in such a case. And the fact that somebody has good will doesn't play that part here. Because it was privatized here in the '90s in good faith. A lot of other things were done in good faith. They always said, "I meant well," and in the finals, you actually paid for everything by a citizen, all these tunnels and all these other things. By the way, this proposal, which means abolishing the double-instance of legal proceedings, seems to also constitute a violation of the right to judicial protection guaranteed, for example, in Article 36 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Section 14. It could be regarded as a positive contribution to the draft law as an explicit provision that courts can only take this into account when dealing with offences committed during the pandemic emergency only if the criminal offence is damaged or threatened by the interest of the company in managing the covid-19 epidemic. However, this has already been done in the past, and it is therefore only an explicit anchoring of the existing state. So it's more of a reminder. Section 18. The draft law contains an amendment to the provisions of Section 62a of the Act on the Protection of Public Health. This opens up space for a completely unprecedented restriction on the right to personal data protection and privacy when it imposes on the Ministry of Health the power to create mobile applications for the purposes of epidemiological investigations, use and share data. In view of the other provisions of the draft law, nothing seems to prevent the Ministry of Health from favouring users of such an application against others in the form of an emergency measure and thus de facto restricting the declared voluntaryity of installation and use. It even allows the handling of personal data without the consent of the data subject completely outside the scope of the GDPR Regulation. So this might even give the Ministry more authority to deal with so-called localization data than law enforcement authorities do. Well, that in itself is also an unprecedented restriction on the right to privacy. So who's gonna watch where any of you are or how it's gonna be? In addition, that provision allows the Ministry to transfer part of its powers to a private entity, which in such a sensitive area constitutes a further violation of the constitutional order of guaranteed rights. So it's also not basically clear, the handling of the localization data. Today they're law enforcement agencies, there's some kind of court authorisation, there's some sort of supervisory prosecutor. And here, basically, based on the ordinary law... What does he mean by that? The localization data - where, how and who will handle it? So that's another complaint about this. Here, on this subject, I would like to thank once again the analysis of the Institute of Rights and Civil Liberties, who have very nicely analysed it. I'll sign up later, because I have more of these materials here, and thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u20	That was President Okamura, and I will read the apologies that have arrived. Mrs Klára Dostálová apologizes for today's negotiations for health reasons, further apologies between 15 and 16 o'clock Mr Gazdík for work reasons, and he apologizes between 18.30 and 20 o'clock for work reasons, Minister Gazdík. That was an apology. I also have a general debate to assess whether the state of legislative emergency is still in place, registered by Mr Fiala Radim. If he's not here, he's probably failing his application. I would like to ask if anybody else is included in the general debate on the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of the legislative emergency lasts. [[From the hall: You have written applications on paper.]] Here, I understand. In addition, written applications are submitted and Mr. Bašta is registered here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we are discussing the issue of legislative emergency in this law, I had to remember Orwellův's novel 1984. Because I have this feeling that those who put the law together read it and used it. They just didn't understand one thing. He then wrote it as a warning of the onset of totalitarianism. In that law, you see it as a guide to use. President Okamura has been talking about this for quite a while. And I'd like to go back a little bit to what inspired George Orwell to write a novel, which he so remarkably estimated at an enormous distance of nearly 74 years, how the totalitarianism would manifest itself. He didn't understand, he didn't know that texting might come, but he already knew something about TV and cameras, surveillance...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u22	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I ask the others who speak to leave the hall, if necessary, so that you have room and peace to speak. Thank you very much. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u23	George Orwell was based on events that occurred in Germany in the 1930's, among other things, because his novel is such a study of the effects of totalitarianism in individual regimes. He not only wrote about Stalinův's Soviet Union, but he also noticed the onset of two totalitarians which came to power by elections. You could even say free parliamentary elections. In 1930 in Germany, in 1946 in Czechoslovakia. And when you look at these events in terms of power technology, the technology of how totalitarianism is being prepared through parliament, you have to notice some really significant moments. The first is that there is a need for an event that justifies the use of extraordinary legislative means. Because it was a woody time, so then maybe Parliament was set on fire, Reichstag set on fire, or demonstrations were made in Old Town Square, marching armed militiamen. We're going to be fine with a mere pandemic today, and because it's a pretty good guide to achieving a degree of totalitarianism that I don't think Georg Orwell has dreamt of in much. You know, the totalities he knew were, they were more or less political. The covid totalitarianism, and that's what there was a long talk about a moment ago, covid totalitarianity hits people directly, hits their families, actually interferes with the very intimate affairs of a person itself. It can be translated into a different format, one that is similar, so I know only one such form of how it can happen, what can happen, and from an ideological point of view it was one known, who was Iranian, lived here for a long time, and then after a while returned home. And in the moment, because he was taught here, he didn't even think that, like, religious police are watching things the way a man goes to the bathroom. And since he didn't squat, but he stayed standing, he was arrested. And if you look at the way that what we read in that law can work, then we get from the plane of those political totalitarians to the level of totalitarianism almost medical, almost intimate. And that's one, I'd say, one of the moments that must warn. And it must warn precisely because it is simply impossible to discuss it democratically in order for a similar law to be adopted. It needs to be discussed in some accelerated regime, a regime that rejects logical arguments of negotiation, a regime that is a forceful one. Because it just doesn't matter what the consequences are. It doesn't matter that those who submit it themselves, based on what has been said, understand what the consequences may be. And they have 108 votes, so as we've heard, they're gonna push it. But they don't realize what they can do. Because when I was interviewing some journalist who asked me what, it's only until November or the end, I'm more worried, based on historical experience, that if there's just going to be such a nice totalitarian pandemic law, there's always a pandemic. Because as an emergency, it's a very good invention. [[14.00 hours]] But at the same time, there's another unpleasant historical moment, and that's that we're in an extraordinary situation, in a situation that most of the time threatens to end with some not-so-good results in terms of society, the whole state. Each time a revolution broke out, it was at a time when after a long period of prosperity, peace, social reconciliation came a turning point, and suddenly things got worse, incomes went down, inflation went up. So people are losing the money they keep in their accounts. The payments they will have for energy will be such that they will not be able to cover them. In fact, the government's way of helping them humiliates most decent people because they will have to go and humbly ask to be replaced by what they have always paid. And then you come up with a pandemic law that can eliminate businessmen, people who are always the salt of every country, the foundation of the middle class, the foundation of actually Western civilization, as it has evolved in the last 70 years or 75 years since the end of World War II, particularly in the west of Europe. It's just a civilization based on a middle class that's structured. On the other hand, there were third world countries in South America, where the composition always looked completely different. Europe's foundation is a very low layer, few people who live on the border of poverty or slightly below it, then there is a large, very structured middle class and above it has always been a relatively low layer of rich. Today it's changing, the South American model, where about a third of the people who live below the poverty line or on it, then people who are happy to be employed, but have neither too much property nor too much influence, and above that is the layer of those who are rich enough and who have everything and decide about politics. And we are just slowly moving into the third world model, where the number of those who live below the poverty line begins to grow slowly, or maybe they are just above it, the dependence of citizens on the state is growing, the economic one, and at the end of that there will be huge disillusionment. Huge disillusionment from what happened. Huge disillusionment about how their government treats them, which really has only two concerns, which are actually - one way to hold on to power. Because we have a pandemic law that is such an insurance policy if it doesn't go too well, so it doesn't just have to be blamed on the previous government and the previous prime minister, but there's gonna be an emergency situation because we have the law on it, and that makes it possible to justify why something isn't, something isn't. And the second thing is that they have a legislation on correspondence choices that, as examples have shown, in the United States in particular and in addition to Austria, can prove that these elections can evolve as planned, not as citizens will want. And at this point, there's only one really big danger, and that's that the people who walk and demonstrate won't be a few thousand. It won't just be a few tens of thousands. But when the summer's over, the electricity bills come, they find out what happened in the meantime, what doesn't work, then we get into a situation where revolutions take place in less civilized countries. In countries like the Czech Republic, these are usually early elections. And I think that by putting forward such a high-quality pandemic law that shows everyone that it isn't democracy, it's just power, it's just how to get long-term resources to influence the situation if it doesn't work politically, that you've adopted... that you're adopting a law that one lawyer very nicely compared to that - it just has the same logic as if you've decided it's necessary to maintain flood control measures, even if it's not raining, but we're going to put it into law because it might come in handy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u24	Ambassador, I am sorry, we are having fun - here we are still on the subject where we are to assess the state of legislative emergency, we are not discussing the law itself. So I'm just gonna ask you to focus on the subject. Believe me, this is how I will call all Members to account across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u25	The state of legislative emergency is just the sign of what I'm talking about. If it is necessary to adopt a controversial law, if it is necessary to adopt a law that can change balance and mean that our policy will start to return more to totalitarianism, then it can only be done if it is not talked about too much, if it is washed down quickly, within one day, if the opinions of lawyers are not taken into account, the opinions of experts, the opinions of people, the opinions of the opposition, but simply push it through with force. [[14.10 hours]] Sometimes, the way I enforce it by force seems to me that, as I have already mentioned this George Orwell, sometimes I also remember the Animal Farm. Therefore, I would quite like this House, and especially the government coalition, to realise that the adoption of a similar law contains a huge danger for the future. And the way in which it is enforced means that you will make an unprecedented decision at a time when all the states around us are releasing pandemic measures, so suddenly the Czech Republic considers that the pandemic is rampant here in such a way that it deserves a pandemic law that overcomes everything that was before, so in a way it goes beyond the possibilities that give an emergency. Probably the best way to deal with it is to withdraw the law and start discussing it in a normal way and to change it in such a way that it is acceptable from all points of view, but above all from the point of view of democracy and from the perspective of the future of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u26	Thank you very much. With a factual point of view, Mr Výborný is reporting. Otherwise, I'll read the order, and with priority rights, Minister Schillerová applied, and then we'll continue with the written applications. [[The President]] This means that Mr Kobza will be prepared, then Mr Koten and finally Mr Radim Fiala's application has been forfeited. So it's just how it is with the order of the individual performers. And now a point of fact, Mr. Výborný. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Government, dear colleagues, thank you for your word. I would like to comment on the state of the debate that we are having here on the confirmation - I recall - of the confirmation of the state of legislative emergency in accordance with Paragraph 99 (1). This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I listened carefully to Mr Bašta, and I did not have the impression that he would talk purely about the state of legislative emergency here in his speech, except at the very end of his contribution. At this point, we really do not have to discuss the substance of the proposal itself, which we are then to discuss in a legislative emergency, and this is an amendment to the pandemic law, but we have to talk about whether it lasts or does not last and is justified, or there is no justification for the negotiation of this law in a state of legislative emergency pursuant to § 95 para. 5 of the Act on Rules of Procedure. On the basis of what I have just said here, I believe, also on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, that, in order to actually comply with the fact that we are discussing a law which we need to approve, which has been put forward in such a way that it is approved in an accelerated procedure in a state of legislative emergency, there is a reasonable interest that we should conduct the negotiations rationally, also in some reasonable time-limits, so that the opposition can be heard, but so that the law can also be dealt with and voted in substance. Therefore, allow me to propose a procedural vote now and to limit speaking time in the debate on the state of legislative emergency pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1). 4 for two or five minutes, in accordance with § 59 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). So once again, Mr Vice-President, I would like you to put your immediate vote on the restriction of speaking time for two or five minutes in this debate on the state of legislative emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u28	Thank you very much. I'm picking up the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your registration cards. In the meantime, I have begun to make my way to the ballroom so that other Members can come. There has been a procedural proposal that we should vote on immediately. I'll wait for the number of entries to settle. Let me just reiterate that President Excellent has proposed a procedural proposal to limit speaking time to two or five minutes in the debate to confirm the state of legislative emergency. The number of Members has stabilized. So I'm gonna start the vote, and I'm gonna ask who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 137 Members were enrolled, 78 voted in favour, 58 and 1 abstained. This procedural proposal has been adopted. I am of the opinion that we will continue to proceed so that each speaker can speak twice after five minutes. I'll get back to the debate. President Schillerová was signed up with priority rights, as I have announced. Mr Fiala shall then report with priority rights. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, colleagues, colleagues... I'll wait a minute...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, please keep your voice down, possibly go to the debate and allow the President to speak. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Today we are here to discuss the amendment to the pandemic law, one of the laws that divides not only the political scene, but, and I consider that much more substantial, divides society. We could all see it last week, when even a gallows appeared here in front of the House together with the protesters. A symbol that does not belong in the democratic world. That's why I sentenced him right away. And not only me, but also a number of other Members and politicians. But that's not the end of it. Now on the weekend, the situation has moved even further. This time, the gallows appeared in front of my party colleague Ivo Vondrák's house. Without any exaggeration, I'd like to say that this is really behind the edge. We should all be aware of the seriousness of the situation here and stop calling it into question by saying that only a small part of society is leading protests against this law. But that's not the end of it. Thousands of e-mails, acts like this, public protests and so on, all of this should be a clear signal for us by the legislator that the contested proposal needs to be discussed thoroughly. Let the experts judge meaningfulness and, above all, we must explain it to the public. We should also listen to her opinion. Only then shall we make another decision. This must apply primarily to the government. After all, it is true that the adoption of the original law no longer took place as it should. He was accepted quickly, under incredible pressure from the opposition at the time, and also in an extremely difficult pandemic situation. And what we're going to talk about, it also turned out fully when a number of important measures were brought down by the court. I feel like now the government wants to do even worse. The epidemiological situation is different than it was, the opposition is not pushing it anywhere, there is time for discussion as well as for explaining to the public. But we're in the same situation as we were a few months ago. Only now not opposition, but the government coalition wants to push its ideas and ideas on the table again, whether it makes sense or not. [[14.20 hours]] I think it is appropriate now, and especially to illustrate the whole context, it is important to remember when the original pandemic law was formed and how it was adopted. We will all remember February last year, when the pandemic peaked and the situation in hospitals throughout the Republic was critical. In those days, there were units in the hospitals. And at precisely the worst time, the parties of the then opposition and today's coalition refused to extend the emergency situation to the government. It was actually a completely absurd situation. While the media was writing about the number of beds available to the region, the second crucial report of the day was that the House did not prolong the emergency situation. I'm gonna take a little turn right now. It was a purely political decision of the then opposition, which acted according to the password, the worse for the government, the better for us. It is necessary for the current coalition to realize that it was her who made it very difficult for all the doctors, nurses, paramedics, and, last but not least, for all the families who received one of their members to the hospital. We're not really going to do that. And I think it's obvious that we're being restrained from commenting on the covideo measures. And that there was something to criticize! Covid is not a politician, covid is a disease. But back to the pandemic law. You will also remember what happened in those days following. Regardless of political affiliation, the authorities have asked the government to declare an emergency again because they simply lacked any instrument that they could fight the pandemic. The government declared an emergency on their request for 14 days, but the opposition made it explicit and no matter what was going on behind the walls of the House conditional on the adoption of the pandemic law. But, of course, that wasn't the end. The government sent such a law to the House, but the opposition wanted to modify it. So the negotiations between our government and the opposition began, and the opposition dictated and enforced its demands. We all know the outcome, it was a political compromise. But at the moment, the only way we could solve the pandemic. The emergency has become a dirty word. But without him, the critical situation could not be dealt with. One of the key parameters of this law was its limited validity by the end of February this year. The situation is different today. We are dealing with an omicron variant that has provenly lower health risks. Still, dozens of people die of this disease every day, 21 to 7 weeks' average. Moreover, we do not yet know all the long-term health effects of this disease. In addition to those proven, such as chronic fatigue, insomnia, inability to concentrate, studies are available that suggest that covid causes, for example, damage to the heart muscle in few cases. That's not what we're talking about right now. What is more, from some steps of government, one would easily take the impression that covid actually disappeared, or at least does not pose any risk. The Ministry of Health has resigned to any support for vaccination against this disease. All the talk of a prepared campaign to promote vaccination, a door-to-door vaccination strategy, or 200,000 PCR tests, waving a magic wand, turned out to be - let me say this decently - excessive. Now we have record numbers of newly infected. Schools fall into quarantine, paramedics, in some cities traffic goes to holiday mode because they don't have drivers. Smaller and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have people, are paralyzed. The problem with people's shortages is also in various other sectors, yet the only thing we hear from the Minister of Health is that the situation is extremely excellent. The Minister promises in the media that the end of all measures will come soon. If I am still well orienting myself in the chaos of the regulation that the Ministry is spewing, it is now true that 30 days after the positive test one does not have to test, and so on. In order not to be misunderstood, I'm not criticizing it. I am not an expert on the epidemic and the evaluation of his statements and new measures I am happy to leave to others. But it makes me feel a little bit like we're letting all this go completely free. It's like the government said, omicron isn't such a risk, let's drop it and see what happens. But I admit I'm worried about what happens next. What if there's another one after the omicron, and I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, and a more dangerous variant? Today, however, all the actions of this government are demotivating not only for vaccination but also for compliance with ordered measures. But I respect that this is your strategy. And I admit that I'm afraid of this God-awful approach because I have an idea of what everything that man can do. But if on the one hand you say that everything is okay and we have to learn to live with covid, I don't understand your pressure on the amendment to the pandemic law in a state of legislative emergency. Then I have to ask - why? What are the reasons for this? Do you have any analysis of experts predicting that a worse option will come after omicron? Or are you going to change your attitude? Can you submit these studies and analyses? Are you working on this with any of the foreign respected institutions? What is the opinion of experts on law from some respected school, like Charles University or Masaryk University? What is the opinion of the constitutional judges? In your programming statement, you write: We will carefully consider each new regulation on the basis of an analysis of the expected impacts. The legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration shall be submitted by standard legislative means and shall be made available before being submitted to the Government by experts within the Government Legislative Council. So where is it, please? Or is this government's programming statement no longer valid in this section? I believe that there are simply no objective reasons for discussing a situation of legislative emergency. In the words of Minister Válek, the government expects this law to be a future insurance policy. In what future, please? It's for a year, two, a hundred? But above all, the House has actually come to legislative paskvil, which cannot be approved within one day. If Mr Jakub Michálek is able to say that the time limitation seems to have fallen out by mistake, then I ask: What else did it fall out by mistake? And what else is missing by mistake? Then why do we have the Minister of Legislation? Wasn't it supposed to be him and his deputies keeping an eye on government proposals so the House wouldn't leave for legislative scumbags? It should only be a clear signal that the law needs to be discussed in standard mode. And even though this government is excelling at sending signals so far, it's obviously in poorer shape with acceptance. I will admit here that I cannot imagine how the proposal would have to be modified to support our club. But surely some problematic passages would at least be removed and, above all, they would be subject to discussion, because that has not actually happened until now. I do not agree with the argument that we must adopt the law, because at the end of February, the current pandemic law will expire. I have a simple reason for that. If, for God's sake, the epidemic situation gets worse enough to make it necessary to adopt more substantial restrictions, then we have an emergency situation. It was prepared from the beginning for similar situations. There's no reasonable reason to accept another law when we already have one. The fact that the emergency is politicized is true. But we're not gonna be campaigning to dehoneze your emergency condition, now we're gonna change the law. In addition, in an emergency legislative state. And now to the substantive reservations. I have already mentioned that a proposal came to the House, where the most essential parameter is missing, the end of the law. Meaning, do we want to issue a blank check for the government without any restrictions? [[14.30 hours]] I also miss the control mechanisms of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that the pandemic law should not give ministers the opportunity to intervene violently in the free life of people without any control already because such an option could be easily abused. In my opinion, there is a considerable weakness in the provision on compensation for damage, where only the real damage is to be paid, not the loss of profit, which is clearly the dominant damage in the case of pandemics. In addition, the proposal envisages that the victim will have to prove that the damage could not be averted. In an emergency state must prove that the damage is self-inflicted, otherwise it is responsible for the damage. Which position is more favorable? I think the answer is simple. I consider it completely ill-conceived to be a system of the ability to place quarantines in an oral or text message. Nowhere in the world you have to have a cell phone. And how do you want to show exemplaryly that she actually left the text, virtually. Didn't you think the man took her in? I'm a fan of digitalization, but it's impossible to do at any cost. The government's amendment to the pandemic law assumes that anti-coronanavir emergency measures issued under the pandemic law will be able to include a wider range of activities than they are now. Authorities will be able to order testing for covid-19 entrepreneurs, students, pupils, preschoolers, not only employees and other workers. The Ministry of Defence and Interior also have the opportunity to issue measures. However, these are only the main problems of the new pandemic law. Once again, I would like to call on the government coalition to keep the Prime Minister's promise that it does not want to distribute more society, and to withdraw this bill. If it's really necessary, let's go back to him in peace. Let us take our time because there is really nothing that makes us accept this law now. In case the situation gets worse, we have enough legal options to deal with it. Please, let us all be reasonable and let us complete this law in committees so that it is of any use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President, for your speech. Mr Kott is now voting. The President of the Fiala will prepare himself with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, fellow Members, I would just like to state for the record that, in the previous vote number 2, I have been in favour, and in fact I voted against. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u34	Thank you. For screen recording only. Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala is now reporting with priority rights and then Mr Jiří Kobza is duly applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I too join, and I am not afraid to say this publicly, to obstruction against the pandemic law because I am convinced that it is unconstitutional, tramples on the rights and freedoms of citizens in the Czech Republic, and I believe that freedom must be defended at all costs. This means that I, too, think that we should no longer discuss the pandemic law in a legislative emergency because the five-wheelers themselves claim that it is a preparation for something that could only come in the autumn of some sort of respiratory disease season. I am convinced that we could definitely discuss this law by autumn and discuss it here in the normal order of procedure, that is, in three readings, and that we would definitely make it, because the law needs that debate. It proposes many amendments. On the basis of that pressure, even five koalice revised some of the things concerning the pandemic law and tabled amendments to amend the law, because it really brought us here a legislative pasquil. I'm not afraid to say it. In addition to restricting, for example, entrepreneurship, which is enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, can also restrict family and private life, it is all there, without control. And these are all rights that we cannot limit by a simple law because they are enshrined in the Constitution. And that's why they're in that constitution so that they can't be changed day by day, even in the 90s, or in an accelerated hearing, as the five-calice would like. I believe that those who designed the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms knew exactly why they were doing this. Because any regime can come - and I now stress any - that simply begins to trample on citizens' rights and freedoms. That's why there's a constitution to protect them, above all, above the law, above the regimes, above the ministers, above the premieres, above all to protect them. And we just want to change it now, and we still want to change it in one or two hours. That's unbelievable. Unbelievable. And I believe that this government has already written itself into history. That's what I think should be written in all the political science books that's going on here and what kind of experiments are and what's going on here. At this point, we're talking about the legislative emergency, where we want to change things in a few minutes. We're using tools that definitely don't belong to it. President Okamura here quoted what a legislative emergency is for: some general immediate threat to the country. And of course, there was a lot more of the reflections that the legislative emergency served. And I have not noticed that today's situation concerns any of them. Notaben, when we're talking about a covid, maybe a covide pandemic, a threat to citizens, and so on, the huge increases in the new positives, which, of course, are caused by the mandatory testing everywhere, by the dictatorship against the unscathed, but imagine the numbers, and I'm very happy for that, the numbers of hospitalized are decreasing, the numbers of seriously ill and threatened are decreasing, although... Note from the diaper.) Yes, Doctor, I think so, that it is, that the numbers of positives are increasing, that's what every television says. And I am convinced, and I wish that the numbers of hospitalized and seriously disabled people do not increase. For this reason, many European states, such as the United Kingdom, Spain and so on, are retreating from all antiepidemic measures and consider the corona pandemic no longer a pandemic, but an endemic disease, which means that it will treat it as any other disease and its seasonality and so on. He'll treat him, of course. There'll be systems. But he no longer considers it a pandemic, so that the governments of those states have to declare complex measures that can just prevent the freedom and rights of the citizens of that country. I am convinced that citizens are very touchy about this, and not only citizens of the Czech Republic who have experienced totalitarianism and socialism here for over 40 years. But we see that demonstrations against epidemiological measures are all over Europe. And if you don't know, there's been an emergency in France for two years. France faces demonstrations every week. And it's getting worse. So the governments of individual countries must consider on the pharmacies' scales what is still bearable to them and what is not, what encounters hard resistance not only by the opposition, but mainly by the citizens of that country. And I think it's the most important thing. [[14.40 hours]] But let's go back to the legislative emergency, because that's the thing that we're discussing specifically right now. And I have a job here that deals with the state of legislative emergency in the field of law. It is the work of Master Adam Vízdal from 2013/2014 and the Department of Constitutional Law and Political Science. This work deals fully with constitutional aspects and analysis of the so-called state of legislative emergency, even in the European context, that is, when to use it, when not to use it and so on. Let me quote from the work here, because for some of us it can be an educational thing, for some of us it can be an interesting thing and for many politicians I would recommend that they learn from this: Each state's constitutional right is based on the definition of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, and the constitutional regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms is determined primarily by the factual possibilities of this state regulation and the resources available to the State. For example, the right to health is not only a matter of the constitution, but, in particular, the possibilities of society and the advancement of medical sciences and the like. Moreover, the constitutional regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms must operate in line with other normative systems, such as morality, religion, politics and the like. The core of the vast majority of the constitution is the constitutional regulation of the relationship between public authority and individual. Our Constitution does not specify this relationship directly, especially because it has failed to reach agreement on possible amendments to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Therefore, a compromise solution was adopted, according to which this Charter is not directly part of the Constitution, but of the so-called constitutional order. However, this does not change the legal nature of the regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms. It is not even possible to compile an exhaustive list of citizens' rights and freedoms. We must therefore abide by what rights and freedoms are considered fundamental by the Constitutional Devotor. Thus, the Charter is not only a Charter of Fundamental Rights but also a Charter of Freedoms. It also often confuses the concepts of law and freedom. In the Charter, it is therefore necessary to understand under the rights the provisions which give rise to certain rights of citizens vis-à-vis the State. Freedoms are then linked to the definition of autonomous spaces in which the State, or public power, does not have to intervene, such as property or privacy. Another difference between rights and freedoms is that, in the case of fundamental rights, it is necessary to point out their anchoring in the constitutional regulation, whereas this is not necessary in the case of freedoms. People are born free - Art. 1 The General Declaration of Human Rights and Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of the General Declaration of Human Rights shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Charter - I would like to keep it that way - so it does not have to prove that the law grants them some particular freedom. Freedom is thus an expression of natural justice. Citizens can therefore do everything that the law does not forbid them. Individual rights have a basis in law, and their existence needs to be demonstrated in order to exercise them against public authorities. On the contrary, in the case of freedom, a public authority should demonstrate that the law prohibits or commands individuals to act. This is quite a substantial distinction and has a close relationship with the amendment under discussion, or how it affects the restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is created on the natural legal concept of fundamental rights, as evidenced by its preamble, which explicitly emphasizes the recognition of the inviolability of natural rights of a person and the rights of a citizen. It also mentions the generally shared values of humanity. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 1 The Charter expresses the basis on which the amendment of fundamental rights and freedoms in the Charter is to be built. It is the view that these rights and freedoms do not come from the will of a state that can only anchor them. Their basis, according to the constitutionalist, is that a human being is itself a set of certain rights. These rights can only be guaranteed by the State, but cannot be revoked as confirmed by Art. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 23 of the Charter. I just want to say that's what we're trying to do here. We are trying to defend our rights and freedoms enshrined in the basic Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and such a charter allows us to do so directly. That means we're following the Constitution. Which is exactly the example of the shameful pandemic law and its even worse amendment. In the context of the Charter, the issue of human rights protection is also an important issue. The positive approach to fundamental rights and freedoms of man emphasizes their enforcement and their inalienability. However, if the constitutional arrangements for fundamental rights and freedoms are to have the character of subjective public law, they must be enshrined, irrespective of their origin and in a positive way, so that they can be enforced against State power. The Charter lays down rights and freedoms, which - first of all - are constitutionally guaranteed, so it is guaranteed that they will be governed not only by the executive power and the judiciary, which are bound by the Constitution, but also by the legislative power. That's what we're trying to do here. They have a special content - ensuring the autonomy of the premises of an individual protected from public intervention, the ability of the individual to participate in the administration of public affairs, as well as in the demands of the individual towards the State, in order to treat and not discriminate against him in the same way as others. They are created directly on the basis of a constitution or an international treaty, not from a specific legal relationship, so they are permanent depending on their residence in the territory or citizenship and have the same scope for all individuals, as human rights have permanent validity, and as fundamental rights they can be called from 8 February 1991 - and we would like it to continue - when the Charter of Effectiveness took place, given their natural legal nature, their constitutionalisation is an act declaratory, not constitutional. For the next one. It is not possible to have legal acts with them because they are inalienable and indestructible, they are the same for all individuals, but they can not be used. For the next one. They shall be enforceable against the State by means of an independent judicial authority or, where appropriate, an international authority. Although our constitutional regulations do not specify this postulate explicitly, it can be deduced from Art. 1 Constitution according to which the Czech Republic is explicitly a democratic rule of law based on respect for human rights and freedoms. It also follows that all state authorities must abide by this rule. Fundamental rights and freedoms are also under the protection of judicial authority. Not only the Constitutional Court, but also the general courts must protect these rights and freedoms in their decisions, because the executive authorities are under judicial control. This ensures the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms in this area of state power and applies to legislators bound by constitutional regulations. And, of course, if we fail to complete this pandemic law or, in some way, the five-calice push it through, we will have a constitutional complaint when we will certainly pass this law to the Constitutional Court, because what I have read here is clear: the courts have the rights and freedoms of citizens to protect. Not only the courts of the general, but also the Constitutional Court. Well, I look forward to Mr. Rychetský's comments. Let us keep this in mind especially today. [[14.50 hours]] The natural basis of the Charter is expressed in the second sentence of Article 2 (2) of the Charter. 1 under which fundamental rights and freedoms are inalienable, inalienable, inalienable and incorruptible. These characteristics of fundamental rights and freedoms apply to all fundamental rights and freedoms. That's really interesting literature. I think it could be a mandatory reading for all our colleagues in the government. Inalienability means that no one can give them to anyone else, advance them, pledge them for a certain period of time, and no one can pass them away. Inalienability has the effect that no human being can transfer or donate such rights to another or renounce them. Indispensability means that such rights do not cease to exist in a way that is normal in private law, that is not to be used within a certain period of time. Failure to apply for them can not be lost in relation to state power and cannot be relied upon to do so. Incorruptibility means that state power can only acknowledge them, declare them, but cannot abolish them and declare them invalid. In this respect, they shall follow up on Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 23 (2) of the Charter and Article 9 Both the Charter and the Constitution in this respect create the prerequisites for a breach of these provisions to be declared unconstitutional at any time. The State does not create these rights, but declares and guarantees them. However, their carriers may or may not use them. So now I've also read that maybe the word we're using is unconstitutional isn't entirely correct, but from now on, I'm going to use the word unconstitutional. Some of the provisions of the Charter are the basis for applying the concept of the rule of law. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation It emphasizes the determination of the state by democratic values and its ideological or religious neutrality, which guarantees the freedom and dignity of man in society. To ensure respect for the status of an individual under the conditions of the rule of law, there is also a self-limitation of state power that can only be applied in cases, limits and ways that the law provides. This is also linked to the provisions of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Article 2 (1) (a) 3 The Charter, according to which everyone can do what is not forbidden by law, and no one must be forced to do what the law does not impose. This significantly limits public power, the reservation of the law, in relation not only to individuals, but to everyone to whom it applies and to whom it is applied. This principle may also be invoked by legal persons of private law, such as civil associations, commercial companies and the like. This, once again, is very important to mention in relation to today's amendment, which also significantly limits the activities of legal entities. After all, the Act on the Constitutional Court in Section 72 para. It expressly allowed legal persons to lodge a constitutional complaint. So much for the introduction and now let us move on to the definition of admissible forms and ways of limiting fundamental rights and freedoms. The specificity of fundamental rights and freedoms often overlaps with the issue of their limitations. It takes the law to do both. However, the difference between them is in the requirements for these laws. The law requirements restricting fundamental rights are significantly more demanding than those for the specification of fundamental rights by law, unless they are at the same time limited. In reducing fundamental rights and freedoms, the following requirements must be respected: to recognise the natural basis of rights and freedoms, to respect the international obligations of the Czech Republic. Certain general rules apply to interference with fundamental rights. The Charter already contains a number of provisions expressly allowing for restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. It is in particular those provisions which provide for the possibility of establishing obligations. However, the condition is that this will only be done on the basis of the law and within its limits and only with respect to fundamental rights and freedoms. If an obligation to intervene in a fundamental right should be laid down, it is not sufficient to comply with the conditions laid down in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 of the Charter only by law In this case - let us listen carefully - it is no longer merely a mandate in the law for a lower legislator, which is, for example, a government, but a restriction must be stated directly in the law and must meet the conditions laid down in the Charter. This is very important information for the government and also for the Constitutional Court, which will judge our possible constitutional complaint. Another rule for interfering with fundamental rights is the prohibition of discrimination when restricting fundamental rights. This means that legal restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms must apply equally to all cases which meet the conditions laid down. The rule of conservation of fundamental rights and freedoms in the Czech Republic is also crucial for limiting fundamental rights and freedoms. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) In applying the provisions on the limits of fundamental rights and freedoms, the Charter must be examined in its substance and in its meaning. Such restrictions shall not be used for purposes other than those for which they have been established. It is clear from the above that all restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms must be proportionate and must be limited to the extent strictly necessary, which is one of the main unwritten principles of the rule of law. And that, of course, doesn't comply with the law you filed, the five-wheeler. Or maybe it meets your amendment, but if you have an indefinite period of time in it, you are already bumping into the fact that you simply do not meet the fundamentals relating to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, that if you restrict the freedom or rights of citizens, it is only for a necessary period of time and not for an indefinite period of time. Constitutional adjustment of security situations in the Czech Republic. An integral part of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic is ensuring its security. Constitution and Constitution Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended, create a comprehensive framework for dealing with security situations. State sovereignty has not only an external but also an internal aspect, which is the protection of the democratic foundations of the Republic, the protection of lives, health and property. In this sense, the concept of constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended, which considers the implementation of these values and their protection as a fundamental obligation of the state. Supplemented constitutional regulation of the security situation also extends to emergency situations threatening internal order and safety, lives and health, property values or the environment. These emergency situations may be referred to as an emergency, a state of emergency or a state of war. So not subservient to a standard, not even a constitutional law, which is called, for example, pandemic. I think that's an important paragraph. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Individual crisis situations are a reality as individual crisis situations. [[15.00 hours]] However, the state's state of emergency is not a situation that is foreseeably political in nature. Its announcement is linked, in particular, to the situation of natural disasters, environmental and industrial accidents, accidents or other hazards which, to a large extent, threaten lives, health or property values, but which we supply, also internal order and security. Furthermore: The scope and competence of state authorities and authorities of local authorities and the rights and obligations of natural and legal persons in the preparation for crisis situations which are not related to securing the defence of the Czech Republic against external attacks is governed by Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on Crisis Management and on Amendments to Certain Laws, Crisis Act. Again, no other law, the less pandemic. And we've been pointing that out for two years. We have already said to the previous government that we can amend the law to protect public health and that we still have a crisis law and that through these two laws we are able to manage the pandemic and that we do not have to limit the rights and freedoms of individual citizens to any nonsense that has the name of the pandemic law. The emergency situation, as we know, is announced by the government or its chairman with additional approval from the government. However, the Government is obliged to inform the Chamber of Deputies immediately of the announcement of an emergency. At the same time as the announcement of an emergency situation, the Government must define which rights laid down in a specific law and to what extent they are limited in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and which obligations and to what extent they are imposed. Emergency status is announced for 30 days with possible extension of the Chamber of Deputies. So even the emergency situation, which has been declared in many states, has some limited time, and after 30 days, the House will simply review it, vote either to extend it or to cancel it. And you, the five-wheeler, are proposing your pandemic law for an indefinite period of time. The purpose of each constitution is to regulate social relations, both in times of peace and peace, and in crisis situations. The Constitution envisages the need to activate society in crisis situations, whether it is crisis situations taking place independently of the intention of man. The company's activation measures have a starting point, such as the announcement of an emergency, as well as the end, the termination of an emergency, or the abolition of an emergency. The Constitution provides a framework for the conditions for who and under what circumstances puts the company in these special power situations. The State should always carefully examine whether a particular crisis situation actually requires a state of emergency and to what extent it is intended for the duration of an emergency to be intervened in law and obligations. The crisis situation raises before the public authority the question of the conditions under which emergency measures may or must be taken. These conditions, or the limits of necessity, may be seen in the following assumptions: First, when assessing the adequacy of the measure, it is necessary to assess whether emergency measures are necessary at all and whether the danger at risk is realistic. We don't think that at the moment. Secondly, when assessing the proportionality of the measures, it is necessary to assess whether the proposed measures are proportionate to the extent, intensity and nature of the crisis situation in question, whether they are adequate to that risk. Such measures are appropriate when, for example, lives or people's health are at risk. Absolutely crucial in relation to the amendment to the pandemic law: No emergency measure can be dragged beyond the time frame. And that's what we've been talking about here, where, to be fair, in your original proposal for the pandemic law, time is uncertain. I'm sure Mr. Rychetský would have fixed that bill, too. The restrictive measures must always be temporary. The legal frameworks for limiting human rights cannot be unlimited and endless. And now, let us go to the constitutional description and analysis of the assumptions and conditions of the so-called state of legislative emergency, the shortened legislative process, which, by its decision, the President of the House of Pekarová Adamová made for the amendment to the pandemic law. The negotiation of a bill or its amendment to a short-term legislative emergency is a statutory exception to a proper legislative procedure, the justification of which is based not on consensus between Members across the political spectrum, but on the seriousness of the situation which, in the Government's view, must be immediately addressed by the adoption of a law or by its amendment. Such circumstances did not occur in relation to the amendment to the pandemic law. Paragraph 99 (2) (a) is replaced by the following: Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 8 Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, but determined the intensity of their seriousness. Short-term conduct is thus conditional on the existence of exceptional circumstances and the intensity of a possible negative effect on one of the generally defined protected values, namely the rights and freedoms of citizens, the security of the State or the protection of property. This is no longer the case in case of covid-19 disease if its most serious social impact is consensually considered to be the utilization or congestion of hospital capacities or their special workplaces of intensive care units. Even in the context of the Constitutional Court's finding, only circumstances which are clearly out of the ordinary course of internal and external political processes can be regarded as exceptional circumstances, or may be a circumstance such as natural disasters. The justification for declaring a state of legislative emergency must then be assessed in the light of the time of decision-making and the scope of the information available at this time. It is also necessary to measure the intensity of the reasons for the state of legislative emergency in relation to the limitation of the constitutional principles concerned, since the interest in preventing or eliminating the consequences should be taken into account in respect of the protected values referred to in Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In a specific case, the Rules of Procedure shall prevail over the interest in the proper conduct of the legislative procedure. It must be clear what specific consequences the government considers are threatening for the values defined in this provision, i.e. what justifies the conclusion on the threat of significant economic damage or the threat to fundamental rights and freedoms or the security of the State. These reasons must not be arbitrary and specific draft law, the procedure of which the Government proposes, must be capable of preventing the emergence or duration of the public interest threat in question. None of this is fulfilled in the case of the amendment to the Pandemic Law, and declaring a state of legislative emergency is a mockery of laws and absolute outrage. We shouldn't accept that at all. It is unbelievable how the government and the President of the House trample on the law. The Constitutional Court did not even identify itself as a sufficient reason for limiting constitutional principles relating to the legislative process to be regarded without further reference only as a reference to the general and hypothetical risk grounded by no specific data that the possible non-acceptance of the draft law could have a negative impact on the evaluation of the Czech Republic by credit rating agencies, or a negative response by financial markets, although it did not itself dispute the importance of these factors for the state of public finances as well as the possibility of the Czech Republic promoting its interests and interests of its citizens. A state of legislative emergency and an accelerated legislative process is what we are talking about here today and what we are talking about. And the SPD is saying it's nonsense to discuss the pandemic law through an accelerated process or in a legislative emergency, especially when all of the five-calice say it's about certainty, except for some fall wave that could theoretically come. [[15.10 hours]] Let's take a closer look. Each legislative process takes time. However, Parliament must be prepared for a situation where the legislative process needs to be accelerated. Even the parliaments of countries with a long democratic tradition have the tools to speed up this process, whether it is an institution of legislative emergency or other instruments that enable the legislative process to be accelerated. In the Czech Republic, the term shortened negotiations is used for this phenomenon. Professor Gerloch uses an accelerated process for short-term negotiations. The Institute of Legislative Emergency was introduced into the Rules of Procedure at its very first adoption in 1995. This institute was the only instrument for speeding up the legislative process. The Constitution contains no details concerning the length and procedure of the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies. The Constitution neither regulates the number of readings nor the time limit for the examination of the draft law in committees. The only detail of the parliamentary legislative process that the Constitution regulates is the thirty-day pre-clusive, so-called. a lapsed time limit within which the law must be discussed by the Senate. For this reason, the Constitution did not contain any institutes for shortening the legislative process, as this would prevent future legal regulation. Thus, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution in 1992, there was no law on the security of the Czech Republic, which, after inspiration from the House's Rules of Procedure, took over the constitutional text, with the fact that, in the case referred to in the Constitutional Security Act, when an emergency was declared, legislative emergency was not required, and yet a shortened negotiation of the bill could be held. The short-term negotiations were introduced in the context of emergency conditions - a state of war, a state of danger - directly by the constitution, because it contains a shortening of the constitutional Senate term of 30 days. This regulation of short-term conduct at constitutional level had no bearing on what the legislative process should look like in other cases. It did not regulate provisions which would imply that, in other normal cases, outside the external security of the State could not or could have been shortened by the legislative process. By the amendment of the Constitution in 1999, emergency situations were designed to regulate the accelerated negotiations so that it was not necessary in these cases to declare in advance the state of legislative emergency. In fact, the general procedural regulation of the accelerated negotiations has been simplified to cases of external security. In doing so, account has been taken of the past practice, which was based on the fact that, if a very rigidly revised state of legislative emergency is adopted, the accelerated negotiations in emergency situations could also be applied for the purpose of the State's security. The Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic thus took advantage of the knowledge with the application of the state of legislative emergency and shortened negotiations and anchored it in a modified form into a constitutional amendment. The state of the legislative emergency following the adoption of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in 1995 was the only instrument for the accelerated process, except in the case of the adoption of the law on the basis of a decision of the Security Council, when there was no need to declare the state of the legislative emergency at all. It should also be borne in mind that the Rules of Procedure introduced three new readings in 1995 and thus the legislative process was considerably extended. At that time, however, there was no Senate, and the length of the legislative process did not bring such great difficulty, because the laws of the Chamber of Deputies acted directly to the President of the Republic. I think it would be an interesting system today if it were less than the Senate. Yet, in 1995, the state of legislative emergency was used. In addition to the state of legislative emergency, it was possible to shorten the legislative process in another way, which has limited possibilities after the Senate was established. It was possible, like today, to shorten the 60-day deadline for committee discussions with the agreement of the appellant to one day. It was possible to discuss the bill in three readings at the same House meeting. Until the Senate existed, it was possible to discuss and approve a government bill within a few days. Only after the Senate began practical problems with the fact that the law was passed later than the government originally anticipated. However, the change took place only after a number of proposals had to be adopted in preparation for the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. In 2000, the Institute adopted the agreement to the draft law at first reading, through the amendment of Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, which in par. 2 states: "The proposer may, at the same time as the draft law, propose to the House that the draft law be approved in the first reading. The reasons for such a proposal must be given in the explanatory memorandum. If the reason is the implementation of the obligations arising from the contracts by which the Czech Republic is bound, the petitioner will submit a full translation of the legal standards to be implemented." However, this institute, if proposed, can be vetoed by two parliamentary clubs in contrast to the state of legislative emergency. In the Czech legislative environment, the concept of shortened negotiations includes, in addition to negotiations in a state of legislative emergency at first reading, a special case of law negotiation when threatening the security of the state or the threat of a war conflict and the adoption of a law on peace and security actions by the UN Council pursuant to Section 100 of the Rules of Procedure. The declaration of a state of war and the declaration of a state of threat was not used in the period of existence of the state. The special meeting, which includes the possibility of shortening the law procedure, is also the above-mentioned negotiation of a proposal with which the government has attached a request for a vote of confidence. The government may have three different motives for this step: both morally, when the government considers a bill to be so fundamental that if it is not adopted, it would consider its further existence unthinkable, or the government is trying to speed up the legislative process and insure itself that the law is passed if the Chamber of Deputies is in a position to maintain political stability and maintain the current government in power. A state of legislative emergency and a proper legislative process. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Government shall invite the President of the House to declare a state of legislative emergency for a certain The Chamber of Deputies must confirm, abolish or limit the state of legislative emergency. However, the President of the House may reject the Government's proposal to discuss the government's proposals in the accelerated negotiations, so he may not allow the law to be dealt with in a state of legislative emergency. I don't think that's gonna happen here, because Mrs. Pekarová Adamová is the president of the House. The House may also refuse to discuss the law in a legislative emergency by not confirming in the vote at the beginning of the meeting that the situation persists. On this point, the President of the House shall open a debate in which Members may express their views. All these proposals shall be put to the vote by the House. Before discussing each draft law, the House shall decide in the vote whether the conditions for its negotiations are short-term. If she finds that the conditions have passed, the bill cannot be dealt with in this way. On this point, too, before the vote, the debate is open. The rapporteur shall then present a motion for a resolution to the committee which recommends the adoption or rejection of the law, which may recommend the opening of a general debate or its withdrawal to the proposed law at second reading. The Chamber of Deputies votes on the committee proposal. [[15.20 hours]] Amendments may be tabled in a detailed debate or in a general debate. At the third reading, which follows right after the second, the President of the House will launch a debate in which only legislative technical proposals can be submitted. At the end of the third reading, the rapporteur shall inform the House of all proposals made, which shall subsequently be decided by the plenary vote. Only then will the entire bill be put to the vote, possibly with the proposed amendments. In a state of legislative emergency, only the government proposal, which is based on the legislative rules of this government, can be discussed and this proposal must be preceded by a detailed analysis of the legal and factual situation. - Has this been observed in the case of the amendment to the pandemic law? So far, I don't think it looks like it, but I'm sure when the five-calice colleagues get to the floor, we'll ask them if a detailed analysis of the legal and factual situation has really been processed, and we'd like to see her. The enormous risk of a situation of legislative emergency, as we see it literally live, is the ease of abuse of this institute, because it does not give Members who are in a minority the opportunity to block negotiations on the bill, as is the case with the proper negotiation of the bill at first reading. The state of legislative emergency was designed for another purpose, for the adoption of non-conflict bills in exceptional circumstances, proposals on which political and social agreement exists. Is this the case with the pandemic law and his novel? No way! And I don't think it's just a case where individual politicians or political parties have the opposite view of the negotiation and the whole pandemic law, but I would say that society is divided enough into understanding the pandemic law, and that it's definitely not a law that society accepts as one person, that it's okay, that it's needed and that we need it. In doing so, countries have much more stringent criteria for adopting legislative bills in need, as I will talk about it today, geographically and historically close to us, like Germany, Austria. The legislative process in a state of legislative emergency. Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - § 99 para. 1 to 9 - regulates a situation where there is no need to insist on a general legislative procedure and urgent action is needed. For this is the regulation of the legislative process in a state of legislative emergency. In a state of legislative emergency, laws may be discussed in exceptional circumstances pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 if the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are fundamentally threatened, whether the security of the State is significantly threatened or when there is significant economic damage to the State. So please tell me which indent your pandemic law belongs to. I'll do it again. There are therefore three: 1. fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are threatened; 2. the security of the state is seriously threatened; and 3. the threat of significant economic damage to the State. So please, I would also like you to note that when you talk about where the pandemic law belongs in your opinion so that you can take advantage of the state of legislative emergency. Only the Government can make a motion to declare such a situation and is hereby declared by the President of the Chamber of Deputies for a certain period of time. The House will determine for what time the state of legislative emergency may take, may cancel or limit the period for which the state has been declared, that is, the House can only determine the time before the bill is discussed. A motion to declare such a situation may be declared in relation to a specific bill until such time as it is discussed. The purpose of the Institute of Legislative Emergency is that the submitted Government Bill will be discussed in a shortened hearing pursuant to Section 99. Unlike the general procedure, the first reading does not take place, the President of the House himself commands a bill to one of the committees, so the committee does not have a general period of 60 days, but a fixed time limit in which to present a resolution with an opinion on the bill. Therefore, if he does not submit an opinion, the bill may still be discussed. Where a resolution is tabled by the Committee, it shall propose whether a general debate is to be held on the draft law, on which parts the detailed debate will be held, and shall propose a deadline for the House to end the negotiations on the draft law. All of this is the content of § 99 para. 3. If the House concludes that the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency have passed before discussing the draft agenda, it will abolish the state of legislative emergency. That, in my opinion, is exactly what we should have done today. This was also the case with some of the state of restitution and electoral law that has been announced so far. Before discussing the Government's bill, the House will assess whether the conditions for its discussion in the accelerated hearing have been met and, if it finds that there are no grounds for extraordinary procedure, the bill will not be discussed. This is referred to in Section 99 (2) of the EEA Agreement. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. The first reading does not take place at all, and the second reading does not require a general debate, and in the detailed debate on the designated parts of the law, the speaking time is limited to up to five minutes. The third reading of the bill may not take place for up to 24 hours, but may follow immediately after the second reading. Every judicial person must acknowledge that the use of these draconian restrictive conditions for the negotiation of a law which is designed to significantly limit human rights and freedoms is far beyond the principles of democracy and the rule of law. It also follows from the Rules of Procedure that the President of the Chamber of Deputies has no unlimited powers in the legislative process, nor can it be established how the Senate and the President of the Republic must proceed in such a situation. It merely regulates the speed of the Chamber of Deputies' response to their positions on the bill. So we can say with certainty that, in this case, the House has failed in its role as the leader of the legislative process throughout the line, especially its chairman. Let's see how it looks in the countries that are relatively close to us. The legislative process in Germany. In addition to the normal legislative process, there are also some special legislative processes that deviate from the standard legislative process. Most often, the legislative process is modified on Parliament's soil by laws amending constitutional standards, the so-called constitutional process, or laws relating to the state budget. Further deviations from the normal course of the legislative process are intended to speed up the legislative process, whether in an emergency or in a state of emergency, or in the event of an adjustment that is not foreseen for conflict negotiations. Although in practice, the most common use of standard law-making is the derogation from the ordinary legislative process. The legislative process in Germany is regulated so-called. Basic Law - Grundgesetz für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland, which is via facti Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany. The accelerated legislative process in Germany has its peculiarities, which are mainly due to the division of competences between the Federal Assembly and the Federal Council, which are considered two chambers of the same Parliament, as well as the rules of the legislative process itself. Details are laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Federal Assembly. In Germany, the Federal Government, the Federal Council and the various factions or at least 5% of the members of the Federal Assembly have a legislative initiative. [[15.30 hours]] The proposal submitted shall be discussed by the Federal Council at three readings, as well as by the various committees, but the Committees may, on a proposal from one of the factions or 5% of Members, be dismissed with the agreement of the two-thirds majority of Members present. If the proposal is approved by an absolute majority of the votes present, the President of the Federal Assembly shall immediately submit it to the Federal Council. It is entitled, if it has comments on the proposal, to convene a so-called intermediary committee to reach a compromise between the two institutions. If this committee proposes amendments to the proposal, it shall be re-voted by the Federal Assembly. Otherwise, the Federal Council shall be entitled to object to the application within two weeks of the conclusion of the hearing within the Committee, thereby returning the proposal to the Federal Assembly. He may insist on it based on the consent of an absolute majority of all his members. However, if the submission of objections is approved by at least a two-thirds majority of all members in the Federal Council, the vote of two thirds of the members present in the Federal Assembly shall be required, but at least half the majority of them. The draft law shall be approved if the Federal Council has given its consent if it has not submitted a proposal to convene the Intermediary Committee within the prescribed time limit, unless it objects to the proposal or withdraws it within the prescribed time limit, or if the objection is overruled by the Federal Assembly. The Act adopted is signed by the Federal Chancellor or the competent Federal Minister, together with the Federal President, who has no right to veto the law. In Germany, too, there are laws which require the approval of the Second Upper Parliamentary Chamber, in this case the Federal Council. These are, above all, laws that affect the financing of the whole state and the financing of the Länder. Any dispute concerning which law falls within this category and which does not, shall be decided by the Federal Constitutional Court. A state of legislative emergency in Germany. In Germany, a state of legislative emergency is created for two situations. The first situation arises when the Federal Council does not give the Federal Chancellor any confidence, but the President does not dissolve him, although he has the right to do so on the proposal of the Federal Chancellor. In such a case, until the election of the new Federal Chancellor, the former Federal Chancellor, but with minority support from the Federal Assembly, shall exercise his office. The Federal Chancellor may propose to the Federal President that he declare, with the approval of the Federal Council, a state of legislative emergency, for a specific bill to which the Federal Council has already refused to give its consent, although the Government has declared an urgent interest in him. You can see that the state of legislative emergency is being used very, very uniquely in Germany, and Germany must have very serious reasons for causing it at all, and even if it calls for an emergency, it may not yet be used and may not be allowed to do very important things. The second situation, which implies declaring a state of legislative emergency, is the connection of the question of trust with the draft law. This connection alone is intended to express the urgency of such a law. The rejection of this proposal by the Federal Assembly opens the way to declaring a state of legislative emergency. Basically, if you listen well, they can only declare a legislative emergency in Germany if there could be paralysis of either the Federal Assembly or some bodies dependent on the Federal Assembly. Not at all, not at all, if they need to pass a law. There is really only a matter of declaring a state of legislative emergency so as not to paralyze, say, their parliament or some of their institutions. I understand that. After declaring a state of legislative emergency, the bill goes back to the Federal Assembly. If it is rejected again or adopted as unacceptable to the Government, the law shall be deemed to have been adopted as proposed by the Government if the Federal Council has given its consent. The same procedure shall apply if the Federal Assembly has not expressed its views on the proposal within four weeks of its re-submitting it. A legislative emergency may be applied to: any other such bill, which the Federal Assembly has given its consent to, but only within six months of the initial announcement of the state of legislative emergency and provided that the Chancellor is still in power. Repeated use of the state of legislative emergency in the term of office of the same chancellor is excluded. That's an interesting thing, too. Repeated use of the state of legislative emergency, say, is excluded in one parliamentary term. They're so careful where they use these auxiliary institutes and they use them, I understand they're worried that they might be abused. And I think that the Czech Republic should also think about it, because we use them as a tearing calendar. Repeated use of the state of legislative emergency in the term of office of the same chancellor is excluded. Similarly, the adoption of such a law in a state of legislative emergency, which amends the constitutional law or partially or completely deprives it of its validity. Although the state of legislative emergency is the same designation in both German and Czech law, it only coincides with it according to its name, but not by its nature. The adoption of laws in a state of legislative emergency is not enshrined in the Constitution, but only in Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the House, or in Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. However, this institute is prone to abuse because it does not give a minority of Members the opportunity to prevent short-term negotiations, as is the case with the procedure for approving the draft law at first reading, also enshrined in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In the event of a state of legislative emergency, it should therefore be an extraordinary institute, which can only be used if the criteria set out in advance are met, whereas the adoption of the law at first reading can be applied to any bill submitted for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies. There is also less possibility of the opposition from this difference to prevent the abuse of the state of legislative emergency, which is our current case of the pandemic law and its amendment. The announcement of a state of legislative emergency is more strictly and more precisely set in Germany, directly in the Constitution. Therefore, this legislative state has not yet been applied in Germany. Please, I'll repeat the sentence again, or the part: The announcement of a state of legislative emergency is more strictly and more precisely set in Germany, directly in the Constitution. Therefore, this legislative state has not yet been applied in Germany. Accelerated negotiations and a state of legislative emergency in Austria. The application of the Institute of Legislative Emergency in Austria is governed by the Federal Constitutional Law in Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of the Act of Accession. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European This law forms a legal framework which defines the conditions, respectively. emergency situations in which laws can be passed if the legislature is unable to resolve for various reasons. This is a situation in which there is a threat of damage to the State, which would be difficult to eliminate, but Parliament does not sit down and cannot meet in time to approve possible legal measures. In such a case, the Federal President, on a proposal from the Federal Government, may take on his own responsibility and responsibility the Federal Government. the provisional Regulation by which the law may be amended, thereby preventing any damage which would have occurred if the regulation had not been adopted. According to this Article, the Federal Government may submit a proposal for the adoption of a regulation only with the agreement of the Permanent Sub-Committee of the Main Committee of the National Council, and such a regulation must be co-signed by the Federal Government. [[15.40 hours]] The Federal Government must submit provisional regulations to the National Council convened either by the Federal President, unless it is currently sitting or by the National Council, if it is currently meeting, within eight days of the submission of the provisional Regulation. The National Council is obliged to adopt the relevant Federal Law within four days of the submission of the draft provisional Regulation or to request the Federal Government to immediately revoke it. The Federal Government must comply with the application for annulment of the provisional Regulation immediately. It will thus bring into force the legal provisions repealed by the provisional Regulation, but the provisional Regulation must not alter the letter of the Federal Constitutional Law and must not result in a financial burden on the State, the Länder and other local authorities, including the financial burden on citizens. It must also not concern theft of state property. However, the Institute of Legislative Emergency in the form foreseen in Article 3 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 to 5 has not yet been used in the modern history of Austria. The analysis of all existing bills under the regime shows that the laws comply with an exceptional exception to the proper procedure and which do not fulfil any exceptional circumstances. Neither in any case was the existence of a state of legislative emergency rejected by the Chamber of Deputies. The fundamental question is whether this institute has been overused due to the exceptional circumstances under which it is to be used and whether it has not been abused. In most cases of legislative emergency, as in today's amendment, exceptional circumstances in which the draft law was adopted were mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. The most frequently declared reason was the threat of economic damage without more precise specification, the threat of economic damage due to floods, the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, the threat of a breach of state security. In some cases, reasons have not been given. And now we have a part called a legislative emergency before the Constitutional Court. I will look closely at this passage because we will be filing a constitutional complaint and I will be interested in how the Constitutional Court will deal with this constitutional complaint against the pandemic law, and I will be happy if it is well justified by the Constitutional Court of the nation, and we, the SPD movement, will try to make the whole nation hear how the Constitutional Court evaluates our constitutional complaint against the pandemic law and what reasons it gives in the event of its rejection. The Constitutional Conformity of the legislative process in view of declaring a state of legislative emergency has already been dealt with several times by the Constitutional Court. The appellants most often saw the abuse of the institute of legislative emergency, which consisted most according to the appellants, that the conditions for its publication under Paragraph 99 (1) were not fulfilled. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which they considered not only to be a violation of this law, but also a violation of the parliamentary procedure giving rise to an unconstitutional way of adopting the law. The announcement of a state of legislative emergency in the relevant complaints was then referred to as a political, not neutral legal instrument and a limitation of the general or detailed debate as a significant restriction on the freedom of expression of Members and the freedom of parliamentary debate. That is, of course, what we have in this case, as Mr Výborný, through Mr President, has limited the debate in the general debate on legislative emergency for five minutes. Democratic principles of the legislative process. In its finding by which the Constitutional Court annulled the amendment Act No. 347/2010 Coll., which amends certain laws in the context of austerity measures within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, pointed out the court's foreign case-law dealing with a number of constitutional democratic principles of the legislative process, which the legislature must observe. In the finding, the Constitutional Court once again stated the principles that the legislature must observe when examining draft laws. They include, above all, respect for procedural rules. In this finding, the Constitutional Court states: Only in a process flawless process, constitutionally consistent procedure, can result in a legal and constitutionally consistent outcome - a decision - and therefore the procedural purity of the decision-making process of the proceedings must be given increased attention and should be given strong protection. If the principles thus recalled relate to the constitutionality of the proceedings before the public authorities and to their decisions issued therein - the procedure laid down within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - there is no reasonable reason to depart from these principles in matters of the control of the legislative process and in acts adopted by it, legal standards, since although the decision-making process of legislative activity differs to a certain extent from the decision-making processes of management before other public authorities - and in this sense it can be understood as the decision-making process of sui generis - the guiding principles of decision-making, in which the final outcome is reached, are identical in both cases. Moreover, it cannot be ignored that the consequences arising from legislative acts are certainly more significant for their social impact than in individual cases - defective - the decisions of other public authorities. Thus, in the legislative process, the requirement of stability, persuasion and the necessity of legal acts on which the rule of law, and also the life of citizens, rests at the forefront. However, such acts and also the achievement of the necessary authority of the legislatures cannot be achieved except by respect for the rules, i.e. the principles of legislative activity, which the Chamber of Deputies, as an important legislator, has established for this activity by law itself. Let us bear this in mind today and avoid the risk of a later annulment of today's amendment by the Constitutional Court, including in addition to content, for procedural reasons. Parliamentary opposition, which does not participate directly in the exercise of state power and is in a minority in Parliament, must be allowed to exercise its constitutionally guaranteed rights in view of the constitution guaranteed by the principle of protection of minorities. It must not be prevented from exercising the function of parliamentary opposition. As the Constitutional Court finds out, the presence of opposition and media forces even a coherent government majority to explain, to justify their decisions. The principle of contra-indication based on free exchange of views and opinions is thus guaranteed in order to seek a wider consensus and, where appropriate, to remedy the shortcomings of the proposed law. [[correct: contradictivity]] The opposition also has the right to block or delay decisions taken by the majority, as well as the right to seek constitutional review of most decisions and laws adopted. Well, we in the SPD will undoubtedly do it and want to constitutionally review the amendment to the pandemic law. The level of protection of the rights of the opposition, regardless of whether it is politically constituted at the moment in order to fulfil its irreplaceable function, is an indicator of the level of political and parliamentary culture. It is also an expression of the degree of democratisation of the political system. The rights of the parliamentary opposition therefore include the guarantee of the right of active representation in the debate and the guarantee of the possibility to influence the parliamentary meeting agenda under discussion, which should not just be in the hands of the government majority. [[15.50 hours]] The opposition's rights also include the possibility of calling for an emergency meeting, for a new item to be placed on the agenda, or, on the contrary, the possibility of blocking or delaying the discussion of a item in the programme by means of so-called obstruction. Admitting some of the above-mentioned rights to the opposition or restricting the exercise of its opposition role leads ultimately to a threat to democracy in the entire political system. In the application of the Institute of Legislative Emergency, there is always a limitation or reduction of the rights of Parliament's opposition, parliamentary debate is limited in its application, the legislative process is shortened, and the Chamber of Deputies can easily become a mere instrument in such a situation to legitimise the approval of government proposals submitted by law, without being subjected to thorough examination and opposition, or without being able to present alternative proposals to Members not only of the opposition but also to members of the government. These facts, which involve the use of the Institute of Legislative Emergency, are all the more serious when it comes to a proposal with so far-reaching implications for the rights and freedoms of citizens, such as the amendment to the present pandemic law. According to the Constitutional Court, the use of the Institute of Legislative Emergency is possible only on the basis of Art. 8 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, in case of a threat to the state or in a situation of war. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 1 July 2004, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union was not in a position to rule on the application of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union. 3. In paragraph 78, the file mark P1 ÚS 55/10 is argued as follows: If, therefore, the constitutional order provides for such a possibility only in one case, it is clear that this is not generally possible in other situations. [[80]] This is not a gap in the Constitution of the Czech Republic if the Constitutional Order knows the possibility of discussing the draft law in a short hearing. The Constitutionalist has decided only to accept this possibility in extreme and extraordinary situations. While it can be admitted that at the level of the law, the Rules of Procedure, there will be other cases where the laws can be discussed in a reduced procedure - a legislative emergency. However, because it is an adaptation of praeter constitution and because the purpose of constitutionally legal regulation of short-term negotiations is to protect the rights and principles governing the legislative process in a democratic legal state, the use of the institute of legislative emergency is possible only on the assumption of a broad consensus in Parliament - at least one which is comparable to the majority required for the adoption of a constitutional law or only when the seriousness of the situation in which the legislative emergency will be applied corresponds to the seriousness of the situations with which the constitutional order for the short-term discussion of the bill counts - the state or the state of war. Do you feel there's a state of emergency or a state of war? Maybe it is, but it may have come from the time I've been talking about it, but I don't know about it yet. So I think that in this situation this law is not entirely accurate, convincing and not under the Constitution and the law of the Czech Republic, and therefore urges a very restrictive interpretation of the conditions and circumstances leading to the use of the institute of legislative emergency in the negotiation of draft laws. In the opinion of the judges of the Constitutional Court, therefore, any further reduction or limitation of the law must be regarded as undesirable because it threatens not only to deny the rights of the opposition but also to deny democratic values, which could lead to a permanent reduction in the quality of democracy in our country and its damage in the eyes of the citizens of our country. I think this is an extremely important passage here from the Constitutional Court's findings. So once again, the three lines: In the opinion of the Constitutional Court judges, any further reduction or limitation of rights and principles must therefore be considered undesirable, because it threatens not only to deny the rights of the opposition but also to deny democratic values, which could lead to a permanent reduction in the quality of democracy in our country and its damage in the eyes of our citizens. According to the Constitutional Court, the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency must also be assessed in the light of the time of decision-making and the amount of information available at the time of the decision-making. It is also necessary to take account of the intensity of the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency in comparison with the limitations of the constitutional principles concerned. However, these reasons must not be arbitrary and must be based on a specific amount of damage, unless the proposed law is adopted as soon as possible. The proposed law, proposed by the government in the short legislative process, must be an appropriate means of preventing any harm or threat to the public interest, which, in the case of the amendment to the pandemic law, is not entirely valid in the case of the pandemic law itself. An obstacle to the abuse of the Institute of Legislative Emergency is merely the legal definition of the reasons on the basis of which this situation can be declared. According to the Constitutional Court, these reasons must be consistent with the Constitution and must be reviewed. Therefore, consensus in Parliament, although achieved across the political spectrum of the legislature, is not enough to declare a state of legislative emergency. Well, we don't have that consensus here either. I'd say the House is half-and-half. If anyone has a hundred and a hundred and on the other hand, 92 a few votes, it's just almost half-and-half. So not only is there no consensus, but it's about 50-50 or 45-55. The Constitutional Court also did not recognise the obstruction of opposition Members as an exceptional condition within the meaning of § 99 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this case, it is about protecting the rights of the parliamentary opposition, which means minorities. If the opposition raises objections to non-compliance with the standard legislative procedure - and we raise this, we say that if you want to discuss it, let us discuss it in a normal legislative process that has three readings - no element of extraordinaryness can be seen in these objections. The opposition under the Constitutional Court in this case merely exercised its right to protect its rights in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I wonder if the Constitutional Court will repeat this, these sentences, even in our case, when the opposition is some and the coalition is also some. In all the above arguments, it is clear that the negotiation of an amendment to the pandemic law in the regime of legislative emergency is contrary to constitutional principles, constitutional practice and the case law of the Constitutional Court, which I consider to be extremely serious. The best solution to this situation is to reject this proposal once and for all, as, in addition to catastrophic procedural defects, it also carries an infinite number of fatal and unacceptable defects and unconstitutionalities in its own content. So that was part of the legislative emergency. And you have all understood that both the authors and the SPD are not recommending the use of legislative emergency. We have all heard that in some states, such as Germany, Austria, Germany, it is only used to paralyze the Federal Assembly, that it is only used once in a parliamentary term and that it must not be used more than once. This means that they are very sensitive to how they detract democracy, how they treat democracy, the opposition, and democratic rules. [[16.00 hours]] So if we're in that part of the legislative emergency, then I think that this law just doesn't belong here and that we should discuss it in a normal legislative process. But let's see how she justified it, not just the legislative emergency, but the pandemic law, today's five-wheeler. And let us say, as they see the explanation of the necessity of the proposed legislation, the justification of the main principles of the assessment of the legal situation in force. Law No 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of covid-19 diseases and on the amendment of certain related laws, hereinafter referred to as the pandemic law, became a legal support for the issue of a substantial part of emergency measures issued by the Ministry of Health in order to combat the pandemic of covid-19 disease. However, a substantial part of the pandemic law, namely Sections 1 to 8, will expire on 28 February 2022, which will significantly reduce the capacity of the Ministry of Health and Regional Hygiene Stations and their possibilities of effectively facing the covid-19 pandemic. In view of the current adverse global development of covid-19 disease, taking particular account of the current situation and prediction of its development in Central Europe, respectively. directly the Czech Republic, and following the knowledge and experience of the pandemic of covid-19 disease, it will continue to pose a serious threat to public health, in particular with regard to the speed of its spread and the possible occurrence of new dangerous variants, which may possibly be more resistant to vaccination. Of course, the word "or" is written here. I understand that, but we can write that in any other viral disease, this justification. It can happen, it can spread, and probably the viral diseases, especially respiratory diseases, will spread. And we have to treat this as respiratory diseases, we have to treat them, but neither are the numbers that we have here today, nor are the numbers of pandemics, nor do we have mandatory testing, compulsory testing in employment, compulsory testing in schools, etc., so we're actually creating positive numbers with the fact that for us in the SPD it's really the most important what are the numbers of those endangered people in hospitals, and that's how we would follow them. We could also follow the numbers of oncological patients, people with broken legs, run overs, numbers of people who were injected with a wasp or a bee in the summer, who had serious complications and so on, and we would find that we are at risk from all sides. Maybe this government would come up with the idea that we could actually shut everything down, because we should be worried about what's going to happen tomorrow, if we get run over by a car, a bee, or we get a covid or some other, for example, God forbid, oncological, disease. Let's move on. In view of the above, it is therefore most desirable to abolish the limited validity of the essential parts of the pandemic law, that is § 1 to 8 because of the need to ensure effective antiepidemic tools for managing the covid-19 epidemic. Another essential aspect of the amendment submitted by the pandemic law is based on the knowledge arising from both practice and current case law of the Supreme Administrative Court. At a time when the proposal for a pandemic law was going through a legislative process, it was not possible for logical reasons to predict the whole range of measures that would be appropriate, necessary and effective for the fight against covid-19 disease. It also turned out that the Supreme Administrative Court of the previous government, to be correct for this government, the previous government, and the previous Minister of Health, abolished 33 measures that the previous government had actually taken and that were given to the Supreme Administrative Court, and it abolished them as unconstitutional or unconstitutional or illegal. So for that reason, we're going to see how the Constitutional Court or the Supreme Administrative Court will act on the measures and here on the pandemic law. Another essential aspect of the amendment submitted by the pandemic law is based on knowledge arising from both practice and current caselaw. The petitioner also took the view, at the time of the creation of the pandemic law, that § 69 No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Act on the Protection of Public Health, can be applied substantially more widely and across the board than the caselaw of the administrative courts subsequently clarified, in particular the Supreme Administrative Court. Well, that means that the Supreme Administrative Court has abolished some anti-epidemiological measures and now we have them here again in the pandemic law, and this government wants to apply them more across the board so that it can apply them more across the board than it was applied in the past, which in my view means greater restrictions on certain groups or groups of residents of the Czech Republic. Therefore, for these reasons, some of these emergency measures are not enshrined in the current version of the pandemic law, which in practice causes considerable difficulties, which lead to the abolition of some, according to the Ministry of Health for the Management of the Covid-19 Core pandemic, measures by administrative courts. For example, it is the possibility to limit the operation of food and accommodation services establishments or to lay down conditions for them without the measure being linked to the existence of specific persons. And this comes to the particular point that we are attacking and why the pandemic law is unconstitutional: because it is written in it, and here the petitioners confirm that the right to business will be restricted. The right to entrepreneurship is in the basic Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and here in the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry of Health says that they also do the pandemic law so that they can limit things across the board, how they could fight against covid, and in brackets it is written: for example, the possibility of restricting the operation of food or accommodation services establishments or setting conditions for it, without being linked to the existence of specific persons, suspected of disease or specifically outbreaks of the disease' and so on. That means, yes, in my opinion, clearly the plaintiffs of the pandemic law say they want to restrict, regulate. It also says that they want to restrict, regulate the operation of internal and external sports sites, cultural, social and other similar events and, last but not least, it is the possibility of regulating the operation of schools, educational facilities and other types of similar facilities and to provide for an obligation to undergo testing for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus. So that's actually what we're criticizing here, what's going on in the long run - restrictions on business, restrictions on gastronomic services, accommodation services and some other things, and here the plaintiffs actually sign it themselves. [[16.10 hours]] As mentioned above, in view of the adverse global and, in particular, the local development of the pandemic of disease in the Czech Republic and following the knowledge and experience of the current pandemic, it can be reasonably expected that this disease will continue to pose a serious threat to public health. Of course it will, probably every disease. This conclusion is led by the petitioner's current rate of spread of covid-19 in the population, which is, moreover, increasingly aggravated by asymptomatic, i.e. the hidden symptomless course of the disease, and the possible occurrence of new hazardous variants with higher transmission and possible higher resistance to vaccination, which may cause further waves of covid-19 in the subsequent period. And they probably will. The current wave of pandemic caused by the delta variant and the incoming wave of omicron, which causes massive spread of disease across the continent in the European region, and consequently the adoption of certain specific antiepidemic measures to prevent the spread of disease in the population and minimise the effects on public health, such as the temporary lockdown introduced in the second half of November 2021 in Austria, or the retreating from accepting negative PCR test results or antigen tests as conditions for the performance of certain activities, or as conditions for entry into certain premises. I would also like to know, Minister of Health, why people who are not vaccinated are not allowed in public space. Something's been stolen? Did they limit someone to life or health or anything? If they take a test and prove they're healthy, why can't they go into public space? Why can't they get a beer or a hockey game? I mean, vaccination isn't preventing transmission. They're just gonna get the covid again. Inoculation is so that people do not have a difficult course of disease. I understand, I agree. Each physician should tell people whether they should be vaccinated or not, what he recommends to them, what they should be vaccinated with. It should be everyone's free choice, but you're putting in a system of necessity, a system that they have to. And I think it's definitely wrong, and either the Supreme Administrative Court, or the Constitutional Court should free those people from this act. He should free those unvaccorded people. So I'm hoping that you guys are gonna stand up to this like people, and people who aren't vaccinated should just have access to public spaces, they should be able to have a beer or a hockey game. That's completely incredible behavior. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Newly, consideration should also be given to the newly spreading omicron variant, which, like the delta variant, is included among the variants of concern, i.e. among the variants where there is clear evidence that the properties of these variants can negatively affect the development of pandemics and thus pose a greater health risk. These characteristics include, in particular, higher contagiousity or higher viral load, which may lead to a rapid spread of the virus in particular in the population. I'd like to say that it would be good to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u36	I would ask for peace in the Chamber, and I'd like to ask you all if there's anything you need to discuss to go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u37	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Now we're going to go on: this variant, and so on, and so on. It says here what are the biggest problems of the different variations, but of course I'm not going to read here and I'm not going to say it. However, I am glad that the version of omicron is more contagious, or it is said that it is more contagious than the other variants, that most people do not have such a difficult course, which is good. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] But we have forgotten one thing that is important here, and that is that we would like to, and we have already demanded that the Czech Republic allow people to test for antibodies, so-called post-infectious immunity, which could be proven. And even though they're not vaccinated and they've gone through the disease, they've gone through the disease to access...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u38	Mr President, I will interrupt you again. I'm sorry, I don't want to say which part of the spectrum is noisy right now, I'm sure everyone knows that. And once again, I would ask you to remain calm in the courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. The petitioner further notes that in the context of the above, it is still necessary to have all available mechanisms of preparedness and response to set up effective antiepidemic measures in the event of the occurrence of new risk variations, which will pose a serious threat to public health. I am not quite sure that this is the right time - in a legislative emergency. We've already talked about a legislative emergency. In order to assess the compliance of the proposed change with constitutional order, the Constitutional Law and so on and so on and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms have been taken into account. In this respect, according to the applicant, the Ministry of Health, there was no contradiction. I have quoted some things here from the Constitution and about the legislative emergency and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the contradictions there were so many, for example, that this law does not belong to any category that is written for any legislative emergency at all, in which the laws should be discussed. That's what I think is the plaintiff's point of view, so he can just go through this situation. The definition of the newly amended emergency measures is designed so that they do not allow for a severe general limitation of fundamental human rights and freedoms within the meaning of a total ban on the operation or pursuit of selected activities, which should, however, take account of the case-law of the administrative courts, in particular at a time of emergency declared in accordance with the constitutional law. Well, here I think the plaintiff is a little full of crap, because if he restricts the gastronomics, the accommodation facilities, of course, he'll cut down the business, and, in fact, he's already gotten a full stop a few times, a total operating ban, and I think it was a disaster for them, that a lot of these businesses and entrepreneurs have lost their incomes and their business. I believe that the Czech Republic can no longer afford such a condition. We will compensate for such a situation when we are going to be doing state budget deficits, when we are closing down businesses and companies. This may be possible for Germany, which is also a rich country thanks to us, because we give them 300 to 500 billion in profits and dividends each year. But we as the Czech Republic certainly cannot afford it because we are at the edge of the deficit, even though there is no covid and there is no covid. So we definitely shouldn't be shutting down companies and businesses anymore. And the government's already destructing them with mandatory testing because they're actually quarantined, and a lot of these companies can't work at all. I don't know if, as a government, you realize that they don't just make turnovers and make profits. They even have to pay penalties and fines for not being able to meet the contracts they have contracted to the end. Because they don't have people. Because they have people in quarantine, people who may not have any symptoms of the disease, but they just have to sit at home and be quarantined. That means they miss work, of course. [[16.20 hours]] And then there's all these paradoxes that I don't even want to mention. Imagine an unsuspected waiter serving you in a pub all day long, and once his shift is over, he's got to get out of the pub, and because he's uncustomized, he can't actually do it anymore. So he can't sit there for a beer anymore and he has to go somewhere else. These are the paradoxes of today when even positive people can actually go into so-called work quarantine. These are incredible things, which means that even positive people without symptoms can wear a mask and go to work where it requires some necessary condition, I can't name it right now to name it exactly, but it shows that the government can just arrange it so that some have to be at home and some have to go to work so that the subway doesn't stop or they can ride buses and the like, but then it degrades the whole fight with the coronavirus and the pandemic. And I'm convinced that a lot of people know that. Well, I'm not going to talk here anymore, and I've explained very much here why the legislative emergency is bad, why we shouldn't discuss the pandemic law, I also explained that if the government, as Mrs Adamová says itself, wants to be prepared for another period of respiratory disease that can come and probably come in autumn, by the pandemic law, I believe we have enough time to discuss it in a normal legislative process and we don't have to chase it in one day. You yourself have heard that this may mean limiting democratic rights, that it is very rarely used in Germany, in Austria, once in a parliamentary term, and we are making a breakdown calendar out of a legislative emergency here. Madam President, for this reason, I would say that I do not think that this is a question of today and that we need to approve it today, so I am convinced, after this justification, that we should be able to deal with this in August, before there is a period of respiratory disease to give us enough time. In order to have enough time, we could deal with this in August, not now. Now let's look at energy prices, let's look at the energy, food crisis, rising food prices, energy, fuel ceiling, and other things that really, really, really bother and burden citizens. So, Madam President, after this justification, I would propose a procedural vote in order to postpone the discussion of this press until 1 August 2022, and I ask you to put my motion for a procedural vote to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u40	So at this point, we have a procedural motion to postpone this press until August 1, 2022. So at this point, I can say that at this point, we are not discussing this press. At this point, we are assessing whether the legislative emergency lasts. That's why someone here can make a motion to interrupt the meeting, but not at the moment to postpone this press, okay? That's what I want to say. So if you want to... [[Voices from the diaper.]] However, I must vote immediately on the procedural proposal under the Rules of Procedure. Yes, of course, the Rules of Procedure admit that you can sign up with a counterproposal. So Mr. Chairman Excellent for KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u41	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I am convinced that, in a situation where we are having a general debate on the state of legislative emergency, we are in a situation where we cannot vote on a suspension of a point which has not yet been opened, because it has not been approved properly under Section 99 of the agenda of the meeting which has been convened. It is difficult to interrupt something that has not yet been initiated under the Rules of Procedure. If this is the case, then I would like to put forward a counter-proposal for this procedural vote, but I really believe that, as President Fiala has put it, this proposal is unvoteable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u42	Thank you. Practically, the President said what I said. At this point, I will ask Mr. Chairman of the Radim Fiala SPD movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u43	Thank you. I didn't realize it because I've been talking long enough about the legislative emergency. My colleague Výborný is right, and I am asking for a procedural vote to interrupt today's meeting. And I think I can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u44	The suspension of today's meeting can only be proposed by the club's chairman, so Mr. Fiala is the club's chairman. I'm gonna go on at the moment. Yes, there can, of course, also be a counterproposal against this proposal. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will therefore ask the President of the KDU-ČSL. Marek Výborný. I'm still gonna get everyone to know there's gonna be a vote. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u45	Thank you for the floor. I'm just asking if he could be quiet in the hall, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u46	I'll ask everyone to remain calm in the courtroom. At this moment, the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club is speaking Mr. Výborný. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u47	Thank you for the floor. So I did not register that President Fiala would at this point say the date until which he wants to interrupt the meeting, only that he wants to interrupt it. If that is the case, I, for the ODS, KDU-ČSL, STAN, TOP 09 and the Pirates, give the proposal to suspend this meeting until 16.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u48	So at this point, I don't see the application for a check-out. So at this point, I'm going to start... yes, there's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your voting cards, and we all know what we're gonna vote on. At this point, we will be voting on the anti-proposal of Marek the Výborný to interrupt today's meeting by 4:30 p.m. We all know what we're going to vote on. So at this point, I'm opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. (Vote number 3.) 143 Members were enrolled, 75 for them, 42 against them. The motion was accepted. But at this point, I'm saying that the meeting will be adjourned by 4:30 p.m., so it will begin in two minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 4:30 p.m., we will continue to assess whether the legislative emergency lasts. At this point, I would ask because I also have a priority right, and it was my turn at the moment, but since the President cannot leave this space at the moment, I am agreed with Věrka Kovářová to replace me with my priority right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u50	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Vice-President Jana Vildumetzová Mračková will now speak with priority in the debate. Please, you have the floor. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u51	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, all my life I stand by the fact that a good politician should listen to everyone. Not just those who support him. They may not agree with them, but they must listen to them. It is after the elections, and our task now should be to calm society rather than to continue to divide. Whether you want it or not, the pandemic law is one of the points that the company divides. Very much so. However, this is not the main reason why I think that the pandemic law, even in order to discuss it in a state of legislative emergency and in its present form, is wrong. There are a lot more of these reasons. A lot of lawyers say that in this form, this law should in no way be approved. It lacks any control of decisions, lacks systematic solutions to compensation for entrepreneurs or people. Only damage is being dealt with in that law. That means a lot of entrepreneurs and people lose their income. There is no way that a premeditated quarantine delivery system is using an SMS message. What if this guy has two phone numbers? What if a person doesn't take over a given text? He won't know about her. He gets a fine up to CZK 100,000? Who's gonna check it out? Who's gonna sanction this? And a lot more. Of course, all things are always solvable, but we should solve them ahead of time, not let a law into the world that we know from the beginning that he has many mistakes and is wrong. I acknowledge that I am not a law expert, but I must say that the opinions of experts on the current form of the law are not attached. Nor are the opinions attached that we are discussing this in a state of legislative emergency. There is no justification, no analysis of future developments, no expertise, nothing. The government is presenting a "take or leave" document here. But this isn't possible. The fundamental question that we do not have an answer to is whether we must adopt this law now. The Minister of Health assures us almost every day that the situation is extremely excellent, that nothing is happening, even though our number of people in hospitals is growing. In most schools, pupils, teachers, other employees are missing, so presentation is more of an exception today. That's the same problem with carriers, businessmen. Everyone is dealing with a catastrophic shortage of employees because people are quarantined. On the contrary, we are losing the number of people who would like to be vaccinated. The captains are already calling for this and suggesting that they want to close many vaccination centres because they have no one to vaccinate. Despite everything, the Ministry of Health has decided to end any support for vaccination, and it can be concluded that the government is relying on the end of the Omicron epidemic in the Czech Republic. Under the circumstances, I don't think there's really any reason to rush the pandemic law. If the situation is different and the Minister has reason to believe that the situation is going to get worse, then please let the Minister tell us. Have him tell all the people. But if he's pretending that the epidemic is ending and promises definite deadlines for dislodgement, I really don't feel that this government needs a pandemic law. Plus, if the government turns out to be wrong about omicron, there's a chance of declaring an emergency. If you put aside politics and proclamations, this instrument really deals with a similar situation. Moreover, within its framework, the Ministry is already able to move. But we've approved an emergency here for two weeks, a month. At this point, we have a proposal for a pandemic law in a state of legislative emergency, or virtually. to discuss it in a state of legislative emergency, without limit, and at this point it is said that it will therefore have validity, efficiency by the end of the year, by the end of November. I believe there really is no rush. The emergency situation, when I get back to him, has been very helpful to the regions. He helped them with the purchase of protective equipment, it's very downgraded. But mostly because they got the protective equipment from the Material Reserves Administration. Today, by having to compete alone, they compete for much more money than when the competition took place centrally and when the aids were practically received from the Administration of Material Reserves. At the same time, when an emergency was declared, the army could have helped them. The regions used it very much in the fires and it helped greatly. They could, of course, also order a work obligation, but then this was not used by the county authorities to order something, and rather they met with the people and agreed on it. I mean, after studying the pandemic law, as it is presented, I can only say that it is an alternative emergency situation, in a different format, but far worse, and that is really unacceptable. And that is also one of the main reasons that I have to say that in no way can I support the pandemic law in this form, agree with it, and in no way can I support it to discuss it in a state of legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u52	I also thank the Vice-President. And now Mr. Jiří Kobza is in the debate and I am handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u53	Thank you very much to my colleague, Vice-President Věra Kovářová, for allowing me to perform with priority rights. And at this point, as the vote has been voted, so it will be done, there will be contributions with a time limit of five minutes. Jiří Kobza is registered here to the legislative emergency. So at this point, I am giving the floor to the honourable Member. And, Ambassador, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u54	Thank you, Madam President. A state of legislative emergency, ladies and gentlemen. The draft amendment to the pandemic law is to be discussed in a state of legislative emergency under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. However, this institute of legislative emergency can only be used if - I quote: exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened or if the State is threatened with significant economic damage. It seems paradoxical to me that this law actually brings these high economic damage, brings restrictions on freedoms, and basically also brings restrictions on some of the safety as food and the like, because food supplies at a time when people can't shop and can't go to work, so of course they have their problems. So there is such a paradox that the state of legislative emergency, which should prevent these damage, is actually causing it itself. Moreover, compliance with these conditions must be sufficiently demonstrated by the government, as is apparent from the rich case-law of our constitutional justice. However, the government has shown no evidence of this request for accelerated legislative proceedings, but this did not prevent the President of the House of Mrs Pekarová Adamová from declaring a state of legislative emergency. Personally, I think it's a completely arrogant disrespect for the constitution and the laws. Moreover, it is the fundamental principle of democratic rule of law and the principle of division of democratic power, so that legislative power adopts laws through a standard legislative process with sufficient scope for parliamentary debate and control. The violation of this process is then an unacceptable interference with the very foundations of parliamentary democracy. It is therefore clear that neither of the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency in the case of the amendment to the pandemic law has occurred. And leaning on this decision that this might ever happen in the future and that perhaps somewhere somewhere in a long time these conditions could be fulfilled, I think it is very wrong. However, there are no relevant and logical arguments for the assumption that the conditions contained in the legal provision on the state of legislative emergency should be met in the future. It is completely senseless and scandalous that instead of reducing or repealing the pandemic law, the government is proposing a much stricter legal regulation, and it is moving on the very edge of constitutionality, or rather behind it. If the pandemic law were to be adopted, it is ripe for a constitutional lawsuit, for example, says attorney Vališová Vališová. Emergency status does not work, tightening screws is the path of Bolshevik. Do you know who the author of this statement is? The promoter of this sharpening of the pandemic law, Minister Válek for the TOP 09. And we should quote here from the Constitutional Court ruling 55/10, which concerns the adoption of laws in a state of legislative emergency. Both legislation and the exercise of the legislative procedure itself must take into account a number of constitutional principles, in particular the principles of the division of power, pluralism, free competition of political forces, the principle of representative democracy based on the free exercise of the mandate and equality of Members of Parliament in freedom of expression and free parliamentary debate, the principle of majority decision-making and the inseparable principle of the protection of minorities represented on parliamentary ground by the parliamentary opposition. These core principles also include the original legal principle of hearing all parties and, finally, the requirement of public and transparent deliberation of the law. The Institute limits or relativizes the above-mentioned constitutional principles and therefore the conditions for its use must be interpreted very strictly and restrictively. The condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is the existence of exceptional circumstances which have the potential to jeopardise fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. Such circumstances can only be a situation that is clearly out of the ordinary course of political processes both internal and external, or a situation of natural disaster. The conclusion on the existence of this exceptional circumstance must have a reasonable basis and must be based on the facts. Their type of seriousness must be comparable to Article 8 of the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic. [[Prime Minister, I'm sorry, your time.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u55	Thank you, too. And before I invite another speaker, I'd like to read my apologies. I have here an apology from Mr Jan Volný, between 18 o'clock and the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mr Ondřej Kolář apologizes between 16 and 17 o'clock for reasons of work. There is also an apology from the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka between 15 and 21 hours for work reasons. Furthermore, we have an apology from Minister Bartoš today from 13:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. Furthermore, we have an apology from the President of the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš, for the rest of the day for work reasons. There's still no apology from my person, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, at 14.15 to 14. 45 for business reasons. And I've exhausted all my apologies at the moment. So at this point, I will state that another to the state of legislative emergency, I will ask the speaker's desk for Mr Radek Koten to come. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Then you have another application, so I would agree with you that then I would let you go again, that at this point, you would have spent two or five minutes, and I will not interrupt you. Thank you very much, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u56	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a lovely afternoon, such a later one. We have been having such a mess here: the state of legislative emergency has recently become such a new normal. I think that in the past so many laws have never been adopted in a state of legislative emergency. The social situation created as a result of the epidemic of covid disease, from the spring of 2020, required an extraordinary public response. At the time, I think it was understandable, and I also think that the people who are watching us, i.e. citizens, felt that way. So it can be said that the members of Parliament and the public had very little time to get to know the proposals, or minimum time, and that time was so short that it was not possible for the legislative proposals presented to be studied in detail, assessed and possibly qualified to oppose them. Unfortunately, as it turns out, both the government and the parliament continue this established practice, in this disorder, and the bills are presented and discussed in a state of legislative emergency, even where public power has been available to prepare them for at least six months. I think this is precisely the case, because, given that the President of the House, Pekarová Adamová, for the TOP 09 on Prima, said that the law would not be necessary until autumn, this is why I think it is necessary to warn as strongly as possible about such a procedure. [[16.50 hours]] Powerful should not assume that its draft laws will have to go through a standard legislative process and an assessment of the effects of regulation just because it continues to spread covid-19 disease, which, however, no longer poses as serious a threat as it was in 2020, because, on the one hand, we have new treatments and, on the other hand, the variants that appear here, whether they are said to be some mutations or quasi mutations or some new viruses, they are not luckily as dangerous as the original ones. [[Won't they?]] [[He's coughing.]] Sorry. This situation can therefore last for many months or even years, and it is obviously unbearable for the Czech Republic to abandon the public and under expert control the debates on these legislative proposals by the government. Too legislative should agree with the activation of the legislative emergency regime only with the greatest restraint not only because this regime dramatically limits the parliamentary debate over government bills, but also because this regime legitimizes the situation in which the government presents to Parliament drafts of laws that have not been discussed enough and whose impact and context have not been sufficiently evaluated. Both executive and legislative powers should learn from the situation that occurred in connection with the discussion of the Government's proposal for amendment of Act No. 191/2020 Sb., known as lex covid, and intervening, inter alia, in the legal regulation of insolvency proceedings. This shows signs of insufficient analysis of the impact of the proposed rules, in particular with regard to the rules extending the suspension of the obligation to submit a debtor insolvency proposal for the amendment of the rules governing an exceptional moratorium. [[He's coughing.]] Law No 191/2020 Sb., known as lex covid, was created at the turn of March and April as an extremely fast and in terms of binding standards of legislative practice a completely improvised response to the outbreak of covid disease and to restrictions announced by the government and the Ministry of Health in connection with it. The Government's bill was sent to Members as House press 807 on 1 April, and the Chamber of Deputies discussed the draft in a state of legislative emergency, approved and forwarded to the Senate on 9 April. The Senate approved it on 17 April and the President of the Republic signed the law by Parliament on 20 April 2020. [[approved]] Such extensive legislation, which extends unprecedentedly to a number of fields of procedural law, including insolvency law, has been discussed and approved by Parliament in less than three weeks. All of the above took place in the first month following the announcement of the emergency situation, which we do not now have, but unfortunately the situation is similar in the case of this law, i.e. pandemic, and the pressure on this discussion is strikingly similar to what we have experienced here, including the emergency situation, the adoption of draconian restrictions on social life, which in principle prevented the very normal functioning of judicial processes, and it happened in a situation where the further development of the epidemic of covid-19 was a great unknown and it was also very unclear how profound the situation would have had its impact on economic life. [[He's coughing again.]] Sorry. I can't breathe it anymore. [[Next thing you know, a fellow Member brings him water.]] On 19 October 2020, almost exactly half a year after its adoption, a government proposal for the amendment of lex covid was sent to Members as a House press of 1060. The proposal was published on the government legislative portal on the same day, and the Chamber of Deputies again, in a state of legislative emergency, discussed and approved the Government's proposal on 23 October and forwarded to the Senate. On 29 October, the Senate discussed the draft as Senate Press 339 and returned it to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment to delete the rule included in Article 3 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As regards insolvency proceedings conducted in respect of commercial corporations, the lex covid proposed to extend the suspension of the debtor's obligation to file an insolvency application until 30 June 2021 and thus to extend the right of debtors dealing with the bankruptcy of reorganisations to propose that the implementation of their reorganisation plan be temporarily discontinued and to re-establish the possibility of proposing an exceptional moratorium if the debtor was not in bankruptcy by 5 October 2020 and if an exceptional moratorium has not already been announced in respect of it. I'm just translating it into this new law, this pandemic law, that we're influencing the lives of millions of people here, at least the government would like to do it so much, and so it would basically introduce a precedent here that, in a state of legislative emergency, anything unpopular can be discussed here, can be undemocratically limited to the time of the performance so that the law cannot be properly discussed, plus the discussion as limited as it is, so basically, it doesn't even give room for that - even because the press and its implications cannot be discussed here or discussed, so that we get into this situation that, from our point of view, such a law that is absolutely unnecessary in this situation, so that we are going to deal with it here in a legislative emergency system. And unfortunately, the abuse of law enforcement in a legislative emergency seems to be taken for such a new standard. I know that the new government here has claimed that it will do everything differently, that it will do it better, but unfortunately the citizens of this country, who are cornered by the various restrictions and draconian bans and orders, have just had enough. So I'm really warning you once again about the approval of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u57	I thank the honourable Member for his time. Before the next speaker comes to the speaker's desk, I'd read three apologies. That first apology is apologized to Mr Ivo Vondrák today between 17.30 and 19.30 for work reasons. She also apologizes to Mrs Andrea Babišová from today's meeting at 18 o'clock, for work reasons. At the same time, I have an apology from the President of the SPD Radim Fiala, for two hours, thus by 18.50. At this point, we will continue to see if there is a legislative emergency. And I have another Member here who has already performed, but he has the opportunity to speak once more, and this is Mr Jiří Kobza. So I'd ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to follow up on what I said here in the first five minutes, where I pointed out that the institute of legislative emergency can only be used in cases of exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state and when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. This was also confirmed by the founding of the Constitutional Court, which is a binding source of law. And according to my sincere conviction, the most sensible thing we can do now is to abolish the state of legislative emergency and discuss this amendment in a proper legislative process. It's in our power. Ladies and gentlemen, I would mention two other things in this context, and that is, of course, the voice of the people who sound here in front of the House, where people are protesting against the limits of covid, and they are protesting the very damage that this law is causing. [[17,00 hours]] But I would rather be here in this situation about what's going on in Canada, where Kanaďan, who are usually discreet and patient, ran out of nerves, got patience, and there were huge protests that went so far, that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau himself and his family had been cleaned up some secret place. The politicians were advised not to come out, so that the protesters wouldn't happen to come for them. And what happens is that Trudeau, who wanted to deploy the police, defied the fact that he wouldn't go against the protesters, so he thought about sending an army, but I don't know what happened to him. There's no news of that yet. Dear five-calice friends, don't let yourself get drunk by feeling your own power. Those people on the streets are gonna count it for you. And you can be sure that they will remember who was behind who pushed this law through all opposition, who pushed through the legislative emergency. The voters are emancipated and the sheep age is past. Nowadays, expensive, inflation, energy problems push them so hard that they have real problems to live on. The number of people is still increasing. So the question is, how long before they run out of patience and play Canada for you here. So I'd like to ask you to remember these circumstances about the law we're talking about, because it's a law that directly hits a huge number of people who directly restrict their freedoms, limit their work, limit their family life, social life, and that's after two years. I live in rural areas where people have limited income and really have a problem at rising prices. So I want to challenge you, cancel the legislative emergency, call it off, solve the law in the standard process, discuss it, discuss it, because there are a lot of things that need to be improved, that's what our chairman Mr Okamura has been talking about, and let's not bother our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u59	I thank the honourable Member for his time. Your speech raised a point of fact, so I would like to ask that Mr Vít Vomáčka come to the speaker's stand. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kobza, through Madam President, do not threaten us with a calculation. Tell your opinions here, comment on them, but don't threaten them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have here an application for another factual remark. Mr. Jiří Kobza is reporting from the position, so I will ask him to come to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u62	Thank you. My colleague, I'm not threatening you. I warn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u63	Thank you. And at this point, I have a priority candidate for the first Vice-President of the SPD, Mr Radek Rozvoral, so please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, let me express why we do not agree to discuss the proposal for a pandemic law in a legislative emergency. To begin with, I will mention the main reason why the entire government five-calice, consisting of a set of political entities formed by the ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates, or two coalitions Together and Pirstan, is trying to push this government bill called the pandemic law, quickly processed and presented by the Minister of Health, to start paying as soon as possible. This proposal was sent to the Members on 20 January of this year. In the draft law, in part 4 under the title, the effectiveness of Art. It states: This law shall take effect on the day following its publication. Thus, the government wants to have a valid law at its disposal, on the basis of which it will enforce its decisions without limit. At the same time, the legislation in force is to expire on 28 February of this year and it is therefore proposed that this amendment proposal should apply as soon as possible and therefore the state of legislative emergency. This rapid amendment to the law for discussion is totally unacceptable to the SPD, as it is in fact just an extension of the emergency situation and the resulting measures that can continue to be implemented by government representatives at the head of selected ministries. Specifically it is the Ministry of Health, Regional Hygienic Station or Hygienic Station of the capital city of Prague, Ministry of Defence or Ministry of the Interior. They will be given even greater powers, through which the Minister of Health, for example, will be able to restrict the territorial constitutional rights of all citizens, only on the basis of the ordinary law, without meeting the emergency conditions in the Czech Republic. This seems unconstitutional to us and strongly resembles totalitarian manners. The SPD movement was the only one of all the MPs represented in the previous Chamber of Deputies who voted against the adoption of the pandemic law that was passed by the previous government of Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement. The current government under Prime Minister Petr Fiala's leadership in the present amendment to the so-called pandemic law extends the scope of restrictions on citizens, proposes its extension indefinitely, and, for example, increased sanctions in the event of violations. There are a lot of reasons why all our Members will not support the so-called pandemic law, let alone in a legislative emergency. We do not like, for example, the fact that it introduces a pandemic emergency situation in our territory for a long time, i.e. without any revision in time, contrary to the emergency situation, which sets out the obligation to revise it for its exceptionality every month in the Chamber of Deputies. The top representatives of the above mentioned bodies - the Ministry of Health, Regional Hygiene Station or the Hygienic Station of the capital city of Prague, the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior - can put into practice everything that comes into play. For example, the state of pandemic emergency, for which, by the way, no conditions are laid down, such as the number of patients or hospitalized, would be permanently in our territory, even if it were no longer de facto. Therefore, we do not want to allow any emergency situation to be accepted without specified conditions, without revision in certain time sections, and certainly not directly by law. It should only lay down the conditions under which it may be declared. It is also worth considering that we have many dysfunctional laws in the Czech Republic, which merely bring conflicting legal interpretations and disunity in their determination. The newly proposed pandemic law will become one of those that brings to the area it regulates, such a chaos that experienced lawyers also have a problem with its understanding and application. In the long term, we advocate that the area should be regulated by the still applicable Act No. 258/ 2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health, and not a legal standard that is applied directly once, sometimes refers to the Public Health Act and changes many other legal norms, regulations and decrees. [[17.10 hours]] All of this is exploitable to people, because the laws and all legal steps on their basis are to be, above all, understandable, clear and certain. Many people thus lose faith in our rule of law and, in fact, sometimes even unconsciously commit violations of the law. Every step that interferes with limiting their fundamental rights must be properly explained to the people and must always be consistent with constitutional order, in particular constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and then Resolution No. 2/1993 Coll., on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as a Part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, as amended. There must be no contradiction in this regard. The definition of the newly amended emergency measures must not result in a severe dimensional limitation of fundamental human rights and freedoms within the meaning of a full ban on the operation or pursuit of selected activities, but should, in the light of the case law of the administrative courts, in particular at the time of emergency declared in accordance with the Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic. All state authorities authorised to act under the pandemic law, including the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, can therefore, when applying all newly amended emergency measures, only to limit the activity or to determine the conditions for its operation or performance. In order not to accept the proposed amendment of Act No. 94/2021 Coll., the Act on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of Covid-19 and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, the so-called pandemic Act, let alone in a legislative emergency, is also called upon by a number of citizens, including leading health professionals, lawyers, teachers, civil servants and members of the Security Corps. Now, let me quote from the letter sent by . Hana Michalicová, who calls on us to abolish the pandemic law. I quote: No disease is supposed to have its own special standard. There may be a number of other diseases that will be contagious in the territory of the Republic, and there will be a threat that a larger group of citizens will get sick. In the past, it was typically the flu when a million people were sick in one year. Therefore, the conditions under which an epidemic can be declared are to be adapted, both in a region and throughout the Republic. These states are to be declared by the authorities of hygiene, not by politicians, and hygiene is to clearly justify and impose restrictions on citizens, or in more serious cases it can address the emergency situation, which is subsequently revised by the House, before which its duration needs to be justified again, therefore there is to be clear general legislation that will be applied to all diseases that would occur in our country. Special conditions for one diagnosis, which has been set aside completely outside of hygiene in this regard, completely outside the legislature, have been left completely without revision and justification in time, is an absolutely unstandard, incomprehensible procedure, in the legal order unseen, and is incredibly exploitable - which is happening. Humanly speaking, the pandemic law serves to ensure that one minister, a politician, and through the ruling political coalition, can do what he wants, when and how he wants, and whether or not the situation in the country still corresponds to that, because the state of the pandemic emergency is introduced as a permanent one. Thus, situations which also affect the diagnosis of covid-19 should finally be regulated in general in the Act on the Protection of Public Health and, on the basis of this Act, should be issued appropriate, clearly justified decisions, because there has never been another procedure and there is no reason to this day. The legal defense of our citizens is completely ineffective. The judicial defense against lawlessness committed under the pandemic law is ineffective. You can turn to the court, but it's good for the passing of time. The possibility of legal defense is thus set. Before the Supreme Administrative Court decides, his decision, however right, is completely useless, because the measure does not apply long ago and is issued new and often again illegal. So we have often witnessed the obligation to follow illegal measures that followed other illegal measures, and the possibility of defending it was theoretical, but in practice it was completely failing. It's like she's not. It cannot be tolerated that any State intervention cannot be legally defended. End of quote. Our duty as elected Members in the democratic elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to defend the interests of our citizens, who have shown our confidence in us to represent these citizens in the House. We certainly do not treat our voters as some other Members elected to serve as Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament. In the SPD, we appreciate the trust of all the more than half a million voters who voted for us, including Mrs . Hana Michalicová. Ladies and gentlemen, we reject the amendment to the so-called pandemic law as a whole. We certainly do not agree with the justification given in the explanatory memorandum on the necessity of the proposed legislation, defending its adoption where it is stated, for example - I quote: In relation to the above, it is still necessary to have all available mechanisms of preparedness and response to set effective antiepidemic measures in pr&xcaron; case&xcaron; the occurrence of new risk options that will pr&xcaron; to pose a serious threat to ver&xcaron; to public health. The reason for extending the list of emergency measures is therefore to ensure adequate mechanisms for the adoption of targeted and effective antiepidemic measures to the extent necessary for the comprehensive and effective management of the epidemic by means of restrictive, organisational or regime measures, the primary objective of which is to minimise the risk of transmission of disease and effects on public health. From the substance of the case, these are areas where there is a higher accumulation of persons in one place at a time, which is generally considered to be risky from an epidemiological point of view, in particular when it comes to indoor activities where the level of risk is generally higher than in the outdoor environment. For the reasons set out above, measures must be taken in these areas which sufficiently reflect the degree of risk corresponding to the nature of the activity or area of human life and which enable the public health authority to comply with the pandemic law. End of quote. In the SPD we disagree that the Ministry of Health, Regional Hygiene Station or Hygienic Station hl. m. Prague, the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior may, in order to eradicate the Covid-19 epidemic or to re-establish it, order emergency measures to order certain activities contributing to that purpose, or prohibit or restrict certain activities or services whose performance could be the spread of the Covid-19 disease, or lay down the conditions for carrying out such activities or the provision of such services. The Ministry may order emergency measures according to the first sentence of national application or with effect in the territory of several regions. The Regional Hygiene Station may order emergency measures in the territory of its administrative district. The specific emergency measures are directly included in the points with which we disagree, on which we have a number of reservations. I'll introduce some of the selected ones. Restrictions on public transport or the conditions for its operation. Restrictions on the performance of business or other activities at the establishment, business centre, market, market or other premises serving business or similar activities, or the setting of conditions for their performance, including the limitation of operating time. Restrictions on business or similar activities in which a natural person comes into direct personal contact with another natural person or the setting of conditions for carrying out such activity. Restrictions on the operation of sports facilities in the interior of the building, outdoor sports grounds, natural or artificial swimming pools or saunas or the setting of conditions for their operation. Prohibition or limitation of the conduct of public or private events involving the accumulation of persons, the accumulation of natural persons in one place, or the setting of conditions for their conduct reducing the risk of the transmission of covid-19 diseases, including the determination of the maximum number of natural persons who may participate in them. [[17.20 hours]] Prohibition or limitation of or establishment of the conditions of visits to health establishments, social services facilities or prisons. Restrictions on teaching or other activities of a university, higher vocational school, school or school establishment, children's groups, facilities for children requiring immediate assistance, childcare facilities under three years of age, facilities for training, teaching or extracurricular training of children over 3 years of age or other similar facilities, or laying down conditions for teaching or other activities therein. Command to test natural persons who are members of the body of a legal person, undertaking natural persons, employees and other workers, students of a university or higher vocational school or pupils or children attending a school or educational establishment or a children's group to determine the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus or its antigen and to determine the conditions for the personal presence of such persons in the workplace, in a university, in a higher vocational school, in a school or in a school or in a children's group. The order of natural persons who have undergone a test to determine the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antigen with a positive result shall be kept separate from other natural persons until it has been established in a manner that such natural persons are not infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus, but for a maximum period of 72 hours, and subject to the test. Prohibition or limitation of the operation of musical, dance, gaming or similar social clubs or discos, gambling rooms or casinos or the setting of conditions for their operation, including limitation of operating time. Restrictions on the operation of zoos or botanical gardens, museums, galleries, exhibition spaces, castles, locks or similar historical or cultural objects, public libraries, observatory or planetariums or the setting of conditions for their operation or use. Restrictions on the conduct of musical, theatrical or cinematographic performances, physical or dance productions, festivities, cultural festivals or parades or other similar events, or the setting of conditions for their performance. Restrictions on the conduct of markets, trade fairs or trade fairs or the setting of conditions for their conduct. Restrictions on the holding of recovery events, other similar events for children or suburban camps or similar events for children or the setting of conditions for their activities. Command to providers of health services or social services in a weekly staff, in a home for disabled persons, in a home for seniors or in a home with a special regime to provide the Ministry or a regional health department with information from their activities for the purpose of setting up anti-epidemic measures. Restrictions on the operation of the critical infrastructure elements concerned and the establishment of rules or conditions to ensure their operation. The order of natural persons who have remained in the territory of a foreign State or part thereof for a specified period of time in which there is an increased risk of being infected with SARS-CoV-2 shall be kept separate from other natural persons for a period until it has been established that such natural persons are not infected with SARS-CoV-2 or have not been in contact with an infected natural person with SARS-CoV-2, but for a maximum period of 72 hours. Order to natural persons who have resided for a specified period in the territory of a foreign State or part thereof, in which there is an increased risk of infection with SARS-CoV-2 virus, to provide the Public Health Protection Authority with their identification and contact details, information on the place and length of stay in the territory of a foreign State, the date of crossing the national border of the Czech Republic, the method of crossing the national border of the Czech Republic and the means of transport used when returning to the Czech Republic and the place of residence in the Czech Republic for a specified period of time since returning to the Czech Republic and other epidemiologically significant data. The limitation of the activities of legal persons' bodies in which a natural person who is a member of a legal person's body comes into direct personal contact with another natural person, or the setting of conditions for carrying out such an activity. Furthermore, I could appoint other emergency measures mentioned in the present draft law, which strictly states that persons subject to an emergency measure are obliged to abide by it and are threatened with great penalties in the event of infringements. Fines under the pandemic law are much more rigorously graduated according to their type of severity compared to the fines imposed by the Public Health Act. In the context of the extension of the list of exceptional measures that may be taken by the listed administrative authorities, it was necessary to adapt accordingly and to add a list of the facts of the offences which may be committed by natural or legal persons, provided that they do not proceed under the ordered emergency measures. We fundamentally reject that defined list of offences together with the proposed fine. A violation under this draft pandemic law shall be committed by a legal or business natural person if he fails to comply with an emergency measure under the designated provisions of the Public Health Protection Act, the purpose of which is to eliminate the covid-19 epidemic or the risk of its re-creation. A legal or business natural person commits an offence if he fails to comply with the extraordinary measures defined in this bill and can be fined from CZK 50,000 up to CZK 3 million. It is also stated: If the offence is committed repeatedly after obtaining the legal power of the decision on the same offence, a fine of up to CZK 4 million shall be imposed. Where the offence is committed by an employee of a legal or business natural person on the basis of the instructions of that legal or business natural person, even if the employee initially refused to act under the instructions of that legal or business natural person, the maximum amount of the fine may be increased by one quarter. A natural person commits an offence if he fails to comply with the extraordinary measures defined in this bill and can be fined from CZK 30,000 up to CZK 1 million. It is also stated: If the offence is committed repeatedly after obtaining the legal power of the decision on the same offence, a fine of up to CZK 2 million shall be imposed. Here it deserves to be repeated that the minimum fine for a natural person for failing to comply with the emergency measures strictly defined in the law, some I mentioned in my speech, is CZK 30,000. We clearly reject that in the SPD. It is clear to us that the government wants to meet another point in its programme statement, where it has set out in its health chapter - I quote: We must learn to live with covid-19 disease, we will not endlessly restrict health care for other patients. Covid-19 must become another serious disease that can treat health care and prevent the serious course of this viral disease. During the pandemic, it has become clear that citizens are confusing the views of various media experts, etc. End of quote. So let us ask ourselves whether the wording of the emergency measures set out in the proposed pandemic law will once again confuse our public and embarrass it into fear and embarrassment, the disorientation of ever-changing declarations of government officials and so on. We think they will. Our movement has a different opinion on how to deal with the situation arising from the coronavirus pandemic. The proposal proposed by the so-called pandemic law is completely unacceptable to the SPD movement. Many measures have already been taken in relation to the coronavirus pandemic, including the introduction of blockdowns. Anyone who wanted to get inoculated was inoculated, but forcing people who weren't vaccinated under the threat of their personal locdown is completely beyond reality. We advocate that getting inoculated is the free decision of every citizen. At the same time, it is unacceptable to impose responsibilities for, for example, for restaurant owners in the control of vaccinations or to test their guests. We propose that it is necessary to focus solely on protecting vulnerable groups of citizens, for which we must ensure the availability of maximum health care to be paid by the State. It is also necessary for the sick to receive medication as quickly as possible so that they can cope with the disease without risk. [[17.30 hours]] There is no way that we want to introduce land restrictions and at the same time transfer the state's obligations to the business sector under threat of sanctions and fines. We reject the adoption of the proposed pandemic law. Our state must be prepared to deal with the threats of pandemic epidemics by providing the best medical care for all vulnerable citizens for possible new risk options, which will pose a serious threat to public health. We need to do everything we can to protect vulnerable groups of people, but at the same time to bring the lives of other citizens into a form that was here before the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Let us not limit people in their work, business, sports and social activities and in the ways they spend their free time. Let us allow children to take advantage of all forms of leisure activities, regular teaching in schools and school clubs. Let us ensure that our seniors are provided with the best possible health and social care, if necessary, free of charge, as they certainly deserve it and it is our duty. Finally, I will repeat that, like all the members of the SPD movement, we will not support a government proposal thus tabled amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of Covid-19, Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the epidemic of covid-19 disease, and we will also reject the state of legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u65	Good evening, dear colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura has applied. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u66	So, ladies and gentlemen, all the time here we explain to the government, the government coalition, that, in a legislative emergency, such a serious standard cannot be proposed in this way and in this way. And I, because it is obviously not clear to the government coalition and, on the contrary, the government coalition has gone to the persecution of the opposition and has voted on power to limit speaking time to two or five minutes, instead of allowing discussion, it is merely silent here and no one is answering our questions because they have no arguments, so I really have to make another expert argument here, and I must inform you of the Constitutional Court's judgment, which I expected you to know, but obviously not. Or maybe you even know him, but despite all this, you're proposing unconstitutional things, which is more like I'd be leaning towards it. And it is the Constitutional Court's finding of 1 March 2011, when exactly this similar situation occurred, when the law, the contested law, was not adopted in a constitutionally prescribed manner, that is the Constitutional Court's judgment. And I'll tell you why. It's one sentence, it's exactly the moment that the government coalition is doing here. Because the Constitutional Court says here that every single procedure of the government majority in the Chamber of Deputies, that specifically... because the law was not adopted in a constitutionally prescribed manner, because there was an abuse of the institute of legislative emergency; (b) to an unforeseen meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; (c) the unjustified deletion of the general debate. Or, in short, here is the limitation of the general debate in your case. Because the general debate will, of course, still be, that is, when the debate is no. Three that's going to be tonight. So, of course, we're going to get to that, and we're going to get to that in detail, of course, on your proposal for that totalitarian pandemic law, in your opinion. So let me introduce you to this constitutional judgment. The founding of the Constitutional Court on behalf of the Republic. The Constitutional Court ruled under the ÚS 55/10 file mark on 1 March 2011 in plenary in the composition of Stanislav Balík, František Duchoň, Vlasta Formánková, Vojen Güttler, Pavel Holländer, Ivana Janů, Vladimír Kůrka, Dagmar Lastovecká, Jiří Mucha, Jan Musil, Jiří Nykodým, Pavel Rychetský, Miloslav Výborný, Eliška Wagnerová - Judge, and Michaela Židlický on the proposal of the Group of Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, represented by Mr Mgr Bohuslav Sobotka, with registered office Prague 1, House 4, to repeal Act No. 347/2010 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with austerity measures under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, with the participation of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as parties to proceedings as follows: Act No. 347/2010 Coll., amending certain laws in relation to austerity measures under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, shall be repealed by 31 December 2011. Reason: I. Recapitulation of proposal 1. Paragraph 1. Group 45 Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic with a proper proposal for a) Constitution of the Czech Republic and Section 64 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Law No 182/1993 Coll., on the Constitutional Court, delivered to the Constitutional Court on 9. 12. 2010 requested the repeal of Act No. 347/2010 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with austerity measures within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, hereinafter referred to as "the contested law." And now I'm going to repeat, that's the point. 2, where it's essentially summarized. The nature of the objections was summarised by the appellants themselves in such a way that the contested law was not adopted in a constitutionally prescribed manner. Each single procedure of the government majority in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate is also written here, namely (a) the abuse of the Institute of Legislative Emergency - that is exactly what the government's five-wheelers are doing; (b) the unforeseen convening of an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; (c) the unjustified deletion of the general debate; (d) the refusal of the right to vote by the elected, in this case to the senators, in the opinion of the appellants, infringes fundamental rights, constitutional principles and values in an inadequate, inadequate and arbitrary manner. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article Hereinafter referred to as the Charter. According to the plaintiffs, such intervention in these fundamental rights and principles is all the more serious that this happened in the framework of the adoption of the law, which itself significantly interferes with the sphere of fundamental rights of individuals, in particular social rights. The appellants first focused their argument on the general definition of the principles governing the legislative process with which they subsequently confronted specific ones, in the proposal for a detailed manner and circumstances of the procedure for the adoption of the contested law, which they considered to be unconstitutional, and therefore sought its annulment. I. A) Constitutional standards and principles governing the legislative process. Paragraph 3. In the general definition of the fundamental principles and values governing the legislative process, the appellants based, first, on the knowledge of legal theory and, second, on the conclusions arising from the case law of the Constitutional Court and/or foreign courts. In particular, they widely quoted the conclusions reached by the Constitutional Court in the finding by the file mark Pl. ÚS 77/06 of 15. 2. 2007, N 30/44, Coll. 349; 37/2007 Coll., where the Constitutional Court clearly defined the claims and minimum requirements imposed by the current democratic rule of law on parliamentary proceedings. [[17.40 hours]] In particular, the appellants referred to the presence of a public adversarial parliamentary debate as a fundamental principle, since legislation should have the character of rational legal discourse, in which all participants will be given the opportunity to get to know the matter in detail and to comment on it in an informed manner. It is important to have a process that allows open discussion among opponents of competitive opinions, including minority opinions. [[cf. cited finding sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 77/06, paragraph 38]] So you see, when I think about these points here, what I'm actually quoting here from the Constitutional Court judgment, is that you're basically quite flagrantly violating the Constitutional Court ruling here already in force. You are really pushing restrictions on rights and citizens in a completely unconstitutional way, and even by being essentially a law restricting the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens who are a given constitution, so just because you do not allow an open debate between opponents of competing opinions, including minority opinions, and you do not allow it - beware, here we are, only the debate has not yet begun, because the debate will only begin in the general debate on the law, now we have a second discussion, that is for the agenda of the meeting, and then for the law. But me, because I'm already the totalitarian manners, you've already done it here, because your club chairman Excellent limited the democratically elected opponents, and you've all voted it out here by a government majority, that we can only speak for two or five minutes except for priority rights, so you basically, well, that's your manners, if it doesn't suit you, who doesn't agree with you, then it's a non-democrat or we'll shut him up. That's exactly the totalitarian act. Undemocratic behavior. Yes, fascinating tendencies, that's what I'd call it. So here's the Constitutional Court talking about it. Then why are you doing this? Why are you acting against these conclusions? You who play Democrats aren't democrats when it suits you. So let's go to the paragraph here. 4. By reference to the knowledge of the legal theory, the appellants have predestined the view that parliamentary discussions and parliamentary debates perform at least two functions, a function of creation and a function of legitimisation. Creative functions are based on the assumption that a political decision is made in parliamentarianism through debate or at least a debate allows such a decision. The political decision thus arises in confronting arguments and counterarguments in the parliamentary debate, which thus also allows equalisation or compromise of competing interests to be taken into account. Although the government coalition, with a rather strong House, is usually able to smoothly enforce political decisions made outside Parliament in the Chamber of Deputies, it is still necessary, according to the appellants, to be understood as a minimum requirement arising from Art. 15 Constitutions of the Czech Republic real, even time, the possibility of the opposition to prepare and submit amendments to government bills. Only in this way can the opposition fulfil its functions in a democratic political system. So here's another one. 4 I quote you here from the constitutional judgment, from the Constitutional Court's judgment, and you're flagrantly violating it. The government of the ODS, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates, normally here you are acting contrary to the Constitutional Court, because you simply silence and restrict democratically elected opposition, you do not even allow the opposition to be prepared to be sufficiently prepared to discuss such a fundamental proposal as your amendment to the pandemic law, which is designed to limit, in substance, the rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by the constitution. Of course, the SPD disagrees with this bill of yours. So I'm basically reading more articles from the verdict here, and you're completely shameless here, breaking it. A normal onset of totalitarianism in your administration. In the context of point 5. You just have to get used to it, I know it's for people who don't think democratically, so they have a problem with it, I get it, I can imagine it looking at different dictators in the world, that they have a problem admitting an opposing opinion, but you simply - parliamentary democracy doesn't lie in the fact that the opposition is saying yes to you here, and that if we don't say no to you, then suddenly you're going to silence us here. You should repeat what parliamentary democracy is. Parliamentary democracy is that even the opposition has the right to do its job, we argue, we debate here, and then, of course, there will be a vote at some stage. It's also about making arrangements with each other here, so that the government has the ability to negotiate, and unfortunately, you don't have the ability at all, and then, of course, in the finals, there's the problems that you're crying in the media somewhere, and you're whining about how nothing's going through here, and you're calling it some kind of obstruction. At the same time, parliamentary democracy is that it is a coalition and opposition, otherwise it would be a government of one party or a government of one coalition, and I do not want that here. I know it's the sides here, we've already talked about it the last time they agreed to it, it was in the National Front, there were, for example, folks, but we just don't want it. We just don't want it to be this way, we want democracy to be just opinional pluralism, to be a democratic competition between political parties, and I think it's totally okay, and there's no point in labeling or labeling here one way or another. We should just respect the fact that citizens voted for us here, and that should, by the way, be based on a proportional representation in the House's bodies, which, of course, does not respect the government's five-calice. It's an extremely dangerous behavior that represents this pseudo-democratic, virtually. an undemocratic government coalition. But let's go to point 5. However, in the context of the constitutional review, the legitimacy of the parliamentary debate is even more substantial, according to the appellants. Even if a real political decision were made outside Parliament, the parliamentary debate remains the purpose of legitimisation, i.e. publicly interpret arguments for and against which played a role in the political decision. The public is thus familiar and confronted with the essential aspects of the decision, which allows it to make its own judgment about matters, to take or reject the arguments put forward and to adjust its future behaviour accordingly - whether in elections or in other forms of political participation. The debate thus does not lead to a decision in its legitimisation function, but it justifies and legitimizes the decision already made, making transparent reasons for supporters and opponents of the decision. The mediation of the intention of the legislature and the purpose of the law by parliamentary debate is also important for the legal awareness of citizens and helps as one of the elements of the interpretation of the law also to legal certainty as one of the principles of the rule of law which protects Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Constitution of the Czech Republic. The appellants reiterated their claims in support of the conclusions of the cited finding sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 77/06, paragraphs 55 and 56, as well as the conclusions set out in the different opinion of the Judge-Rapporteur Eliška Wagnerová on the finding sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 24/07 of 31. 1. 2008. So the Constitutional Court here clearly says at point 5 - and you see that it's very interesting, that it's, I mean, a nice judgment, but to get you here, I don't want to say it again, that somehow mix it up with the debate here, but how enlightening it is, but the government coalition doesn't want to listen to it, it doesn't want to hear it to act in accordance with the Constitution, they want to break the constitution, we can already see it here, so the Constitutional Court is already here on a few points saying how important this parliamentary debate is. But you will, contrary to that, limit the speaking time of the opposition to two or five minutes. Well, I understand that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but here I see exactly the constitutional dimension, that at the moment... well, to the strength you limit the debate to perhaps some, I don't know, issues that may not affect so many citizens, or... I think that every matter is important to somebody in some way, but I'm trying to imply something, I don't want to touch anyone, but here you are actually limiting citizens' rights and freedoms across the board, and that's why it's good here to reflect the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which here says how important it is in such a case, and not only in such a case, that parliamentary debate. But you're gonna keep her down hard. I think it's also contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, because at least we're discussing here, you've limited time, but you're not responding. That's the dimension, too. [[17.50 hours]] You're not making arguments here. You're not responding to the opposition's complaints here. You see how, in my opinion, in a few moments of the government coalition is going hard, not only by restricting the constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens, you want to restrict and restrict the ordinary law. Even the government suggested it for an unlimited period of time. But even the way you're pushing and putting it here is, in fact, contrary to my view, to what has already been done here in this case by the Constitutional Court. That's why we said if you pushed it through, we would, of course, consult. And in my opinion, it's for submission to the Constitutional Court. That's not what we're saying here, because that's what we want to say. We say that because we analyze everything in the SPD. And we have our opinions prepared with our experts. And that's exactly what we're based on in those Constitutional Court judgments, unlike you. Point 6. Moreover, the plaintiffs in the way - but again only to keep the thread from being lost, so the plaintiffs, we are not talking about the government's five-calice, it is a sentence ten years old, more than ten years old, or ten years old, 2011, yes, more than ten years old, and the plaintiffs were then, part of the then Members. - In addition, in the manner in which the contested law was adopted, the appellants found that the failure was caused by the finding of sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 77/06, paragraphs 57 to 60, defined by the insurance policy of the constitutionally conformal exercise of the legislative process, which is gradually the President of the Chamber of Deputies, respectively. The President of its meeting, the Senate and the President of the Republic, since in the order of the first and third of them, the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the President of the Republic, did not want to intervene, and the other Senate could not intervene as a result of the subsequent speed up of the legislative process. So here you can see the article I was talking about - Article two, Article three, Article four, Article five - so you're just getting into conflict here. I. (B) The process of adopting the contested law and its constitutional defects. In the light of the foregoing, according to the appellants it is necessary to interpret the provisions of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, also JŘPS, and Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the JŘS, which was used in the examination of the draft contested law, while the appellants stated that, in the proposal for detailed circumstances of adoption and the legislative process itself under the contested law, it was undoubtedly contrary to the above-precended constitutional principles and values. Well, I just want to happen to be the president, who will be here at the moment, so that they don't interrupt me, because given what I've discussed here in more detail about this, I'd say they're preambled on why I'm talking about this, what I'm pointing out here is that the government coalition here doesn't comply with constitutional judgments, so, of course, I need to discuss in more detail what this was about in order to see the parallels here. So, of course, I'm going to focus on the law that was in 2011, but, of course, in order to understand why the Constitutional Court is rationalizing this here, and what the unconstitutional nature is, of course, we need to have complete information. I'll keep going. This contradiction was seen specifically by the appellants (a) in the abuse of the Institute of Legislative Emergency - that is exactly what we are talking about - see I. B.a.); (b) in the unforeseen convening of an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - see I. B.b.); (c) in unjustified refusal of a general debate - see I. B.c.); and (d) in the refusal of the right to vote to the elected senators - see I. B.d). For all these procedures, the appellants found that the intervention, the lack of justification and the characteristics of the arbitraryness were inadequate. Well, that's exactly what we see here. That's exactly the thing - the traits of insolentness, well, I'd say perversely. Insufficient justification - that is what I explained here in my morning performance for three hours, because it really is paskvil nad paskvil. And it's just a completely messed-up law. And, of course, the idea of the law is unacceptable, not only is the processing completely wrong, we've already said that. And, of course, it's also the abuse of the institute of legislative emergency. Well, that's what we've been trying to explain to you basically all along, and we're gonna be explaining it to you for quite a while today. In the opinion of the appellants, the above-mentioned steps in the decision to declare a state of legislative emergency should also, during its duration, pass a three-stage proportionality test, which is used by the Constitutional Court for assessing a conflict of constitutionally protected values. It is good to really listen to this and listen to it. Again, here I say, and again, I call on the government coalition to withdraw this law, not to act totalitarianly and to actually approach properly. I know they want to control people at all costs, but we're really gonna defend that freedom and democracy against you. And as I've looked at the public's reactions, it's actually already seen by a number of citizens what you're doing here. And I'm glad for that. They can see it now, and I'm sure they're writing to you. I am convinced of this because the number of citizens who do not agree with this, in my opinion, is not quantified by any study or survey, but, as I feel, it certainly exceeds the number of SPD voters. There are certainly a lot more people who simply do not agree with this bill. In the opinion of the appellants, the above steps should also be passed by a three-stage proportionality test in the context of the decision to declare a state of legislative emergency during its duration. Yes. The state of legislative emergency and the accelerated negotiations are intended to prevent threats to the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, threats to the security of the state or significant economic damage - a legitimate objective, but that is an intervention into the aforementioned rights by the House of Minorities, which is what is called a distorted value. Such intervention is constitutionally possible only if it is appropriate, necessary and proportionate at the same time. And again, we are here to see whether it is necessary, proportionate and appropriate. But here I am telling you the Constitutional Court verdict. Here's the answer. And there's no situation like I'm saying there's an emergency here today. It's just you guys have these feelings that you like to control people. So let's move on. I.B.a.) Misuse of legislative emergency. A paragraph that speaks of the abuse of legislative emergency. That's exactly what your coalition is doing here. In relation to the institute of legislative emergency and the conditions of its publication pursuant to § 99 para. 1 JŘPS appellants argued that declaring a legislative emergency and abridged negotiation without fulfilling the conditions under Paragraph 99 (1) of the EC Treaty. 1 JŘPS would not only be a violation of the law, but also because of the time pressure of the constitutionally protected freedom of parliamentary debate and the right of Members to submit amendments, and thus its right to exercise their elected office properly, as well as the equality of Members, since the government Members are in a clear advantage. In this context, they referred to part of the Constitutional Court's decision sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 12/10 of 7. 9. 2010, 269/2010 Coll., paragraphs 17 and 18, in which the Constitutional Court also assessed the general prerequisites for declaring and fulfilling the state of legislative emergency. [[Law No]] In the opinion of the Constitutional Court, it can be concluded from the appellants that it sees the decision on legislative distress to a large extent as a political decision, but warns against its use as a tool for reducing the rights of the House of Minorities. Well, here we go again. So the Constitutional Court warns exactly what your government five-calibers are doing here. It's incredible what you're doing. [[18.00 hours]] In this case, according to the appellants, there can be serious doubts as to whether the announcement of the state of legislative emergency and the accelerated conduct was capable of preventing significant economic damage to the State. Unlike earlier cases of a legislative emergency, the government failed to convince the opposition Members of the need to approve the amendments in question relating to the adoption of the State Budget Act in order to take effect on 1 January 2011 at the latest. It did not convince the opposition that the declared savings of less than CZK 24 billion, representing around 2% of the planned budget expenditure, were the substance of the proposal rather than the fundamental political decisions to limit certain social rights. Point 9 - we are still talking about the connection with the abuse of legislative emergency. It's the Constitutional Court verdict. - At the level of need, i.e. finding out whether it really was a minimum intervention in the freedom of parliamentary debate and the rights of Members, necessary to achieve the objective pursued to prevent significant economic damage to the State, it should be seen from the applicants that the government had an alternative procedure available, in particular that it could have achieved such an objective by submitting a draft law in a timely manner. Well, the Constitutional Court verdict, it's like it's on this case today. It's like it's today. So that's why I'm reading it here, or I'm telling you about it here, and I'm explaining it to you, so that you realize how unconstitutional you're trying to limit the rights and freedoms here, not just the citizens, but even the democratic functioning of the Chamber of Deputies. However, following parallel political objectives can be introduced from the sequence of steps taken by the Government's majority: first, the failure to negotiate an unpopular bill in plenary before the municipal and senate elections and then to discuss the bill in the Senate before the termination of the senators' mandates elected six years ago. However, these objectives, of which the second one in particular effectively prevents the participation in the decision-making of the newly elected senators, cannot be considered legitimate, states the Constitutional Court. The need to declare a state of legislative emergency for preventing significant economic damage to the State can therefore also be doubted by the appellants. Point 10. Similarly, the appellants questioned the adequacy of the very announcement of the state of legislative emergency and of the accelerated negotiations. While the degree of risk of significant economic damage is quite questionable, the degree of reduction in the freedom of parliamentary debate and the rights of Members is indisputable. I don't know if the government MPs are deaf, because the Constitutional Court is talking about it. That's basically the situation of today. This means that the rate of reduction of parliamentary debate and the rights of Members is indisputable. It is really ridiculous, as I have seen here x Members from that government coalition, who are talking about democracy somewhere on social networks and as if on television, but here they are completely flagrantly acting contrary to the basic democratic principles of the Constitutional Court. That's why the saying "you'll know them by the fruit" is here. That's exactly the case. [[Minister Gazdík off the microphone: This is the Bible.]] Yes, it is. Right, the Minister of Education has shown knowledge. In a state of legislative emergency, which allows the approval of a bill in the Chamber of Deputies in a single day, a Member cannot properly study the bill and comment on it. That's exactly it. He does not have time to prepare amendments, he cannot gain more accurate knowledge of the content of the bill and its diverse implications by consulting experts, nor can he mediate the views of his constituents and, where appropriate, legitimate interest groups on Parliamentary soil, which can only be heard by the mouth of Members. In addition to reducing the rights of a Member, citizens' rights are also reduced to hear arguments for and against the passed law, where in the present case there is a limitation and narrowing of the legal scope of social rights at least - in the case of this law, which I am referring to - in the form of a reduction in the rate of sickness, a cancellation of the social supplement, a reduction in the allowance for care, a reduction in the entitlement to unemployment benefits for certain groups or a withdrawal of the birthing majority of families with a newly born child. Somebody mumbled something on me, but I don't know what he said. [[A Member passing by the speaker's desk.]] I. B.b) An unexpected call for an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe you said something that we should be done, so that's why I'm telling you that you can, of course, have the emergency meeting in your hands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u67	Mr President, please, if you want to name or address someone, it is through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u68	I have a problem with the fact that I do not know the name of the Member because I do not know who he is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u69	Please let me finish. I also ask your fellow Members if they want to mumble something, so let them mumble it on the microphone and please log into the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u70	Yes, that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Yes, the MPs speak to the microphone. That's right, I must commend that. Yes, that's a direct quote from the Rules of Procedure, that's excellent. But I say again that I wanted to address the Member and hesitate for a while, but I can't even remember his name, so I just hesitated because apparently someone I don't know was telling me what to do. But I don't know why anyone's telling me anything. If he doesn't introduce himself, I don't know who he is. So, I.B.b., an unexpected call for an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Maybe in the mask, maybe we know each other, but I'm focusing on the speech here. Point 11. The applicants also submitted an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where there is also a conflict of rights or protected values, to the three-stage proportionality test indicated above. On the one hand, there is an interest in the speedy discussion of the bill on account of significant economic damage, on the other hand, the aforementioned freedom of parliamentary debate, the right of Members and citizens to participate in the administration of public affairs, and also, in the extreme briefness of the time limit, the right of the Member to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at all. So here, in fact, from the last words I say, it is even repeated in the Constitutional Court's judgment that it is simply necessary to allow an adequate parliamentary debate, in particular, I would add, in those cases where it is basically a law that you want to limit the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens across the board, even though I will just add my political perspective to this, there is no reason. Point 12. According to the provisions of § 51 para. 6 JŘPS on the convening of a House meeting must be informed by Members at least five days in advance. If that period has not been complied with, the Member may propose a adjournment of the hearing, when such a proposal shall be decided by the House by a vote without debate. Thus, the law combines the failure to comply with the five-day deadline as a result only of the right to propose a continuance of the negotiations, which will then be decided by the House. The majority of the House will enforce such an emergency meeting even if the legal deadline is not complied with. However, the appellants are convinced that the provisions of § 51 para. 6 JŘPS should be interpreted with regard to constitutional principles and values and within the meaning of Art. 22 The Charter according to which the legal regulation of all political rights and freedoms and its interpretation and use must enable and protect free competition between political forces in a democratic society. Five-day period according to the appellants in § 51 para. 6 JŘPS serves to enable Members to get acquainted with the proposed agenda of the meeting and to prepare for its points and, in an extreme case - for example, if they are fulfilling their duties as Members on a business trip, but they certainly want to participate in the discussion of the bill under appeal - to learn about the holding of the meeting at all. With the consent of the Chamber of Deputies, the law allows this deadline to be reduced, undoubtedly in the interest of a timely and effective response to the current political situation. However, the appellants would consider it arbitrary if the five-day period was reduced without stating the reason, the shorter the time between the meeting's call and the beginning of the meeting, the more serious the reasons for such a reduction must be. However, at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, there was no argument or reason why a meeting is needed so quickly. [[18.10 hours]] Paragraph 13. In the first step, in the suitability test, the appellants referred to the above; if it is admitted that the adoption of the law by 1. 1. 2011 prevents significant economic damage from happening; a rapid call for an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is a suitable tool to avert them. Paragraph 14. However, in the test of need, according to the plaintiffs, an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will no longer stand. The same objective would also be achieved by discussing the draft law 3. 11, 4. 11 or 5. 11. 2010, without the need to convene an emergency meeting in 40 minutes. Such intervention, i.e. the negotiation and approval of the bill at such a dubious meeting, is, according to the appellants, an arbitrary trample on the political rights of opposition Members under Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Such haste seems necessary only in view of another possible objective pursued, namely to discuss the adopted bill in the Senate by 13. 11. 2010, i.e. until the end of the mandate of the senators elected six years ago. However, this objective, excluding from participation in the Senate's decision-making by already elected senators, is regarded by the appellants as illegitimate. And, of course, this is where we need to ask, which is why I'm mentioning the paragraph here. I also think there are other possible targets. Because he's obviously not here... There are no conditions for declaring an emergency, but the government is proposing a law otherwise named emergency, where 95 percent of the provisions are translated in an emergency, while there are no conditions at all such as emergency conditions here. So, of course, that's what we're asking here, what kind of target the government is following, because that goal to be ready in the fall, it can't be, for a possible pandemic. Because the fact that you're proposing it on such short notice in a legislative emergency, you might as well suggest it in August, too. So for some reason, and I know the reason, because you just looked at the arrogance of power and you want to limit the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. It's just direct that you just show up. No compensation for lost profits. Still, as I was saying, people will still have a criminal record. You're threatening with draconian fines up to three million crowns. Well, scary, really. Point 15. Since the convening and holding of an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, in the opinion of the appellants, clearly fails in the test of necessity, it is no longer necessary to address the proportionality test. Moreover, the appellants stressed that interference with rights and protected values is enormous. Well, that's what we're talking about here. In particular, Members who have been duly excused from the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 2. 11. 2010, their legitimate expectation that the four bills in question, including the contested one, would not be discussed was trampled on that day. However, this legitimate expectation was also affected by Members who had already become familiar with the proposed bills, consulted them and prepared amendments to them in such a time-consuming manner. Calling an emergency meeting with a period of 40 minutes, contrary to the practice and meaning of § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which significantly aggravated the impact of the very announcement of the state of legislative emergency and led to the fact that only four days had elapsed between the presentation of the bill and its approval, two of which were working. Moreover, this four-day discussion of the bill was not predictable at the beginning of the fourth day. Let us now consider another paragraph with a title, and that is also necessary to hear the arguments: Unwarranted rejection of the general debate. And here, because she's about to come, just so we can figure out where you're going. Paragraph 16. The appellants also questioned the procedure in which the general debate on the adoption of the contested law was prevented. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies may decide, in a state of legislative emergency, that the general debate at second reading shall be dismissed. This may reduce all the deliberations of the draft law in plenary of the House to a detailed second reading debate and immediately to the next third reading, concluded by the final vote. The provisions cited in Section 99 (2) (b) are not applicable. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in the opinion of the appellants, must also be interpreted in the light of constitutional principles and values and within the meaning of Article 7 (7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 22 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. In addition, account must be taken of the different functions of the general and detailed debate under Sections 93 and 94 of the JŘPS - I will read it by the abbreviation, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies - when the general debate is seen as an area for political debate and a detailed debate as an area for amendments with a brief justification. This practice was documented by the appellants by extensive quotes from the statements and speeches made by former and current officials of the House of Deputies, who prove that they really require differentiation of the general and detailed debate. Thus, abandoning the general debate, according to the appellants, means a further significant reduction in the freedom of expression of the Member and the freedom of parliamentary debate, since it leads Members - with the exception of those with priority right to speak - to speak only in connection with the submission of an amendment or other proposal and to limit their speech to the justification of such a proposal. Otherwise, the intervention of the President of the Chamber of Deputies is exposed, as was the case in the case under consideration, which occurred just one day after the contested law was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. The procedure of the House of the majority, which decided that the general debate at 2nd reading was abandoned, although the Committee on Social Policy recommended that this draft law be discussed in 2nd reading, both in general debate and in detail in the debate, means an intervention in the constitutionally guaranteed rights of Members under Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, the appellants also submitted this intervention to a test of its suitability, need and proportionality. Right, so far you're in the phase of limiting to two or five minutes. But here, of course, we need to take into account what I'm talking about here, that you are actually proposing to limit the constitutionally guaranteed rights of citizens' freedoms in a completely unjustified manner. So that is why I think it is quite inappropriate, even from a legal point of view, for you to simply restrict the right to express yourself to ordinary Members. Since every Member here represents certain gros voters, a certain number of voters, and in the case of such a serious proposal that you are making here, of course, negatively serious, in a negative sense, you are restricting people, so you should be able to express yourself. Otherwise, it's really totalitarian. But you know that, and you deliberately assert it. And it doesn't bother you at all. Point 17. But you might even suggest it, which is why we need to discuss it here, because we don't know what, the next totalitarian proposal, the anti-democratic will be the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr. Výborný. It is such a leader here that to limit, limit, limit people, Members, uncomfortable Members. So that's why it needs to be said in time, and that's the right point today, because we're talking about the legislative emergency, whether it is or not. Because after you design it and you vote it out, it'll be too late to explain it to you. So it's logical that it needs to be taken apart now. Point 17. Abandonment of the general debate is, in the opinion of the plaintiffs, capable of accelerating the House's negotiations, but again rather in relation to the interest of discussing the bill still in this case the "old" Senate, because in relation to the entry into force of the law on 1. 1. 2011 is this time saving completely marginal. However, according to the plaintiffs, the procedure by the House of the majority fails in the test of necessity. The limitation of the parliamentary debate by abandoning the general debate seems to be completely unjustified, since the general debate did not threaten to achieve the declared objective, i.e. the entry into force of the Act as at 1. 1. 2011 to avoid significant economic damage. On the edge, the appellants noted that opposition MEPs did not give any cause to government officials for the articulated concern that they would resort to obstruction, i.e. to delaying or preventing parliamentary negotiations. Thus, any fear of obstruction of today's opposition was not substantiated. Well, that's an interesting moment to think about. Because one thing is the fear of obstruction, the other thing is that you don't actually allow such a crucial thing to be discussed in peace. So we're not, we're just trying to get a discussion here at all. That's an appropriate discussion. And again, government MPs lie and deliberately label, obstruction and this. It's like we're doing something wrong here. For (a) skimps in obstructions are government five-callices, if you... excuse me, the current government five-callice, in the last parliamentary period of the opposition, as well as the SPD, we were in opposition. And, by the way, because of the obstructions, the Czech Television Council is still not a holiday. You guys took a break here for about ten or twelve hours, if I remember correctly. [[18.20 hours]] So this is exactly the opposite, and if, because you're not dealing with anybody here, you're not dealing with anybody, you can't make a deal, you can't agree on anything, it's already here, we're almost four months after the election. Then, if there is no parliamentary debate, then logically we must ask here in plenary about the microphone. That's logical. We're not gonna keep quiet. You'd like us to keep quiet, SPD, but we're not going to keep quiet, we're going to fight for our political agenda that we promised the voters. And typically the pandemic law, it's basically passed when I put it that way, even in the assessment of citizens in the election. Since he has already been voted before the elections by you once, we have opposed and our positions have relegitized the elections. So there's a legitimate political battle going on here in accordance with the law. Then . d) Denial the right to vote to the elected senators. Well, I wouldn't even pay attention to that here, because it's not the subject here that you're refusing to vote for us, even though you'd like to do it most of all, I've already noticed that suddenly you're upset that there's some opposition here. But I'm gonna pass here because there's no point in commenting on something here that I hope will not be about this situation, because that would be completely insane. So it's crazy now, your attitude, but towards the citizens, but that, so let's move on. So I. C) Description of the circumstances of the legislative procedure for the adoption of the contested act. The arguments in the draft Constitutional Court also confronted the Steno records from the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and their committees, as well as their resolutions and House prints freely available in the digital library on the website of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at www.psp.cz and www.senat.cz. Point 23. 5 days. 10. 2010 The Government of the Chamber of Deputies submitted a draft law amending certain laws in relation to austerity measures under the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, approved by Government Resolution No. 672 of 22. 9. 2010, suggesting that the bill be discussed so that the Chamber of Deputies could agree with it at first reading. Sure, according to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This proposal was dated 8. 10. 2010 sent to Members as House Press No. 120/0 - Government amendment of the Act in relation to austerity measures within the scope of the MPSV. So this is essentially where the procedure is described. I'm not gonna go over this procedure for nothing right now. Here it is being presented and pointed out to the move, that, in essence, those opposition MPs are not able to do enough, that the government did not allow them to have enough time to actually prepare for it. Prepare to make it democratically possible. So I would go to D here because there are some things being discussed that haven't quite happened here yet. So I don't have to quote it all literally again to talk as much as possible, I'd like to welcome that. So, D, summary. Paragraph 34. In conclusion, the appellants have briefly recapitulated their proposal by saying that, as a result of the procedures described above - which I have now explained here, or I have quoted it from a constitutional judgment - the bill under appeal was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on the second working day following its submission, and it was only during that second day that it became apparent that this day would be the last day. Due to the briefness of time, amendments could not be properly prepared and consulted on the proposal, and due to the accumulation of the shortness of time and the launch of the general debate, the possibility of arguing against the draft law in Parliament's debate in the Chamber of Deputies was fundamentally difficult. Here's where we see the certain parallels. According to the plaintiffs, the government coalition has also deliberately avoided a thorough critical debate in the Senate - in this case we are talking about the Chamber of Deputies - and the possibility of submitting amendments there and the potential use of the powers of the Senate renewed in the elections to reject or return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, that was a very specific case here, and that's not the case here right now. So, of course, the government has achieved everything that I have been talking about here, by combining the abuse of the state of legislative emergency, the unpredictable summoning of an emergency meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, it is not so much this case, as well as by shortening the time to discuss the bill, and that is what we can see here, that given the seriousness of the parallels here, they are basically also. For a law that, and this is an important sentence, here the parallel is complete, for a law that does not unduly restrict fundamental rights and freedoms, Parliament has failed completely in its constitutional role as a legitimisational instance. Well, we are, so we're home, aren't we, here. It's happening here today. It's happening here. I would repeat once again the sentence that, in this law, this is your pandemic law, which significantly limits fundamental rights and freedoms, so here the Constitutional Court is criticising that Parliament has completely failed in its constitutional role as a legitimisational instance. Well, that's exactly the problem with the government coalition. So further, in this particular judgment of the Constitutional Court, there is, of course, an important sentence in this constitutional judgment, and here it is important for everyone to hear this: The adoption of the contested law was accompanied by extreme arbitrary government majority, and from a broader perspective, the appellants saw the continuation of a tendency which is very dangerous for the development of democracy in the Czech Republic. It's like I didn't say it here. That's right, and that's exactly what you're doing. And what's the tendency? It is a tendency leading to the marginalisation of Parliament and parliamentary debates, which was also recalled by reference to the circumstances of the adoption of Act No. 261/2007 Coll., on the stabilization of public budgets, where the way it is adopted as well as the way the contested law is adopted shows the tendency of the government majority to reduce the possibilities of free debate in both chambers of Parliament. So that's exactly it. And I think we all understand why the SPD is actually here... here we are trying to explain things to you because we are defending freedom and democracy and defending the Constitution of the Czech Republic. These are exactly your tendencies leading to marginalisation of the Chamber of Deputies and parliamentary debates. And the tendency of the government to reduce the possibility of free debate in the Chamber of Deputies. It is, I read directly from the Constitutional Court's judgment what is not to be done, and you do it. I know you don't care that you're not the guardians of democracy when you have a majority, so just make it undemocratic so you can limit the citizens, so you just go rolling. True, I'm mostly surprised at the ODS in this. Because... No wonder I've known you here for a few years, because you're no longer a conservative party. You're not old anymore. That's why, for that reason, you can never grow those preferences in this way of working to the 30% you had. Because you just can't do it. Not just the leader, but the program, of course. That's why the voters have escaped in the past, and they don't go back to where you want to go in any way. So I know a lot of people who are in ODS and at the level of regular members, well of course a lot, even what they founded in the 1990s, so they know it there and they really are your development, from becoming a pro-brussels party, which basically defends the interests of Brussels, not the Czech Republic and does not defend conservative values, so they are obviously disappointed and you have already lost these voters. [[18.30 hours]] So if anyone was alerting SPD voters, we started at zero. So we have 10 percent of zero. You guys were 30 and you fell, so it's a little different. [[A note from an ODS member outside the microphone.]] That's right, that's right. I'd just ask that you really comply with the Rules of Procedure when talking to the microphone so that someone other than me will enjoy your views, because I, after that, maybe... As much as I'm up for this parliamentary debate, well, I'm used to it here. Next. Parliamentary debate. The Constitutional Court also notes that the parliamentary debate thus loses its contradictorial character so important for the fulfilment of its functions. These are all expressions of a tendency to degrade the two chambers of Parliament - because they are talking about the Senate - to just a voting machine that has, as quickly as possible, to transform the political decisions of the government majority into a law adopted. Well, that's exactly it, that's what's here in the Constitutional Court's judgment. You would like it to become just a voting machine here, when the opposition will remain silent, you would like to get rid of us, which is why the Minister of the Interior Rakušan already begun to abuse the Ministry, and only for refusing to involve the Czech Republic in the war in Ukraine, so we are supposed to be disinformers, so we laughed about it nicely, this year's despair. When he was finally going to explain STAN's funding, he still refuses to answer who the end-owners of those companies that sponsored the Pirates and STAN campaign are, like, this problem. We'll keep reminding you of that. So in this way, basically backstabbing, he approaches that instead of explaining himself, he has butter on his head, so he's still distracting. So, on the contrary, it's just contradicted in this constitutional judgment that only the voting machine, and that, if possible, the opposition would say nothing. It goes on to say that there is a clear reference to the unconstitutionality of such crowding out of Parliament's debate, and on the contrary, it warns in this judgment that this method of crowding out a parliamentary debate can basically mean limiting fundamental rights and freedoms, and warns against this becoming soon a rule and a normal phenomenon, which the plaintiffs just wanted to prevent with their proposal. So that's it for me at the moment. Of course, to take this place apart in detail, there's another 30 pages. But I think that... yes, someone's saying no, but I'm saying yes. If you don't, it's in your hands. Download the proposal for this totalitarian pandemic law. You can duck the emergency meeting. Again, there's no need for a microphone. There will be a vote on the state of the legislative emergency, so just press the button not yes - we want a legislative emergency. Squeeze no! And so, since I'm recording that many of the government MPs already want to go home, you went home on Friday afternoon, we caught you here on the plums that you weren't here at work, and we overruled you in opposition. And then he said the deal wasn't respected. There was no deal, everyone knows that, and then your MPs had to admit that there was no deal, so I don't know what it is... you can't make a deal, you didn't even come to us here. So of course I do, and I agree that I don't, and now we have to move on from those words to actions. So two votes, let me just remind you - legislative emergency - if you don't say so, let's not. Well, of course there can still be approval of the program, and I wouldn't, of course. And we're done. And you guys are gonna do it as standard, and there's gonna be some debate going on here. We won't agree to the law as a whole. So this is at this point what I wanted to recapitulate, so that we can really remember what the Constitutional Court ruling is already warning us about. And I'd really like to ask you again, the five-party government coalition, you have 108... In fact, you don't have 108 Members, because it's 107, because Mr Farský, who promised to give up his mandate, probably doesn't have enough for a ticket or something. You have 107 because Mr. Farský, he's the one who cheated on the voters. He's not here, he's in America, but he's still an MP, so we're waiting for him to arrive in mid-February because he probably doesn't have a ticket. So you're actually not 108, you're 107, because one here is a Member, he said he'd prefer the work of a Member based on the coalition agreement of the Pirates and STAN that they promised the voters, but he's not here. He's not even here today because he's in America. And in America, they are learning the federalization of the European Union. This means the end of the sovereignty and independence of the Czech Republic. Well, Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS gave him a recommendation. That's why I'm specifically saying that the ODS is promoting absolutely incredible things. So thank you for your attention, and I think I have discussed in detail the constitutional dimension here, that it is in our opinion that you are in violation of the already valid Constitutional Court judgment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u71	Thank you, Mr President. And now Mr Radovan Vích is duly registered. And before he starts his speech, I would like to apologize to Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, who apologizes for personal and work reasons from 17.45 to 21:00, and then Mr Václav Král for today's medical hearing. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to comment on the so-called pandemic law, which is proposed for discussion in a state of legislative emergency. This means that the pandemic law is to be discussed briefly with the omission of the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, even with the prior limitation of the notice procedure of the authorities of the state administration. Even the Health Committee has been given a reduced deadline for discussion, while all the common mechanisms to guarantee that a poor law submitted by the government will not be adopted are therefore suppressed in a legislative emergency. This makes sense if there is really a hurry, there is serious damage if a law is not adopted quickly and the temporaryity of such a quick solution can be assumed. All of this does not apply in this case in my opinion at all. The ordinary law, which is the pandemic law, is intended to restrict human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, potentially disrupt the operation of businesses, even key businesses for the operation of the Czech Republic. It's not limited. On the other hand, these mechanisms are fundamentally weakened control mechanisms of other institutions of the Czech Republic. The pandemic law is merely a hybrid substitute emergency. He was not to be accepted at all in his present form. That is why the SPD had already voted against the pandemic law. But this version of the pandemic law submitted by the government of the five-calice is absolutely outrageous. It violates the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms guaranteed by the rights of Czech citizens without it being in an emergency, i.e. in the regime of crisis legislation. Pandemic legislation is circumventing crisis legislation, which contains a strong control role of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. that the government's declared emergency cannot continue for more than a month unless approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Such a mechanism in the pandemic law is completely lacking both in its current version and in the proposed overly ambitious amendment. But the amendment to the pandemic law does not just circumvent crisis legislation, it also goes around the mechanisms of constitutional law. It seeks to be approved by a vote as in the ordinary law, i.e. by a simple majority of Members present at a given meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, by legislation affecting the constitutional rights of citizens. And it should be recalled that the constitutional majority of the Members in the Chamber of Deputies are 120, which is more than the five-wheelers have at their disposal, which has a theoretical 108 votes. Bypassing it so harshly through ordinary laws contributes more to the distrust of citizens in government policy. After all, we can hear it with our own ears from the windows. The Chamber of Deputies this afternoon, how much this discussion accelerated in a state of legislative emergency does not like many citizens, especially in such an important law that can change the lives of the Czech Republic - and I add that to worse. [[18.40 hours]] The Government's legislative rules govern the preparation of bills to be discussed in a legislative emergency in this way - I quote: Article 17 para. 1: If a state of legislative emergency is declared and the bill is to be discussed in a short hearing, Section 99 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., as amended by Act No. 359/2000 Coll., the following exceptions apply to the preparation of this bill: (a) the draft law shall be drawn up without prior substantive intention; (b) the draft law is drawn up in cases where another central government authority is otherwise competent, by a government designated by the Ministry; (c) the draft law shall be sent to the comments of the comments referred to in point (c) of Article 2 (1). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. if the body which has drawn up the draft law considers it necessary, it shall send the draft law to the comments and other comments; the deadline for the notification of comments shall be set by the Member of the Government who sends the bill for comments; (d) the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council on the bill submitted to the Government. Two. The Prime Minister sends the Prime Minister to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and, at the same time, to the President of the Senate and the President of the Republic for information. It is therefore clear that this is a completely inadequate preparation of the law, which according to the proposal of this pandemic law, as it has been submitted to the House, for an indefinite period. [[be]] It's interesting... The President of the Chamber of Deputies of the TOP 09, Markéta Pekarová, confirmed Adamová, arguing in favour of the pandemic law that we cannot have an emergency here for several years. But it's interesting when a five-wheeler needs a pandemic law in the House for just a year, so they repeatedly said it to the media. The original proposal of the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek even expected effect only until August 2023, but it changed to the government for an indefinite period, respectively. until November. What happened to the government, I'm asking? Who made it change? And why is that? The Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommended an amendment to the pandemic law with effect until November 2022. But that's kind of a Solomonian solution. After all, it is quite common in the autumn that flu diseases, colds, viruses, influenza, anginas, etc. are rampant. And that would be so that there wouldn't be any other mutations... [[Your time, Congressman, is up.]] Thank you. I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u73	Thank you, too. Mr. Jaroslav Bašta is now in office. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here in the reading of the Constitutional Court's reasoning, the debate in the Chamber of Deputies is also intended to give room to the views of voters, citizens. And I chose Dr. Jana Zwyrtek Hampl's very qualified opinion for this occasion. Pandemic Law, Law No. The Act on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of Covid-19 and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, introduces in our territory a long-term, i.e. without any revision in time, the state of the pandemic emergency, i.e. unlike the emergency state, which must be revised for its exceptionality every month, gives de facto a blank check to the Minister of Health with a slight exaggeration to anything at that time. Thus, a pandemic emergency situation for which no conditions are laid down, by the way, e.g. The number of patients or hospitalized, under the law, would be permanently in our territory, even if it was no longer de facto. No similar emergency situation, whatever it is called, must be introduced without conditions, without revision in certain time sections, and certainly not directly by law. It is intended to determine only the conditions under which it can be declared. It is similar to legal absurdity, as if the state of flood alert was declared by law for an indefinite period of time, even though it is no longer raining. The Pandemic Law was adopted after the abolition of the emergency situation, which came too hard for the legislators at that time. However, the pandemic law, which was then operationally passed to them, introduced something much worse, including entrusting huge central power over the entire territory of the Republic to the hands of one policy - the Minister of Health. How prudent it was, in quotation marks, four dozen illegal measures that had been abolished testify to this. However, the abolition always took place only after our citizens had to abide by these lawlessnesss. So there was an illegal regime for a number of months. One of the ministers even brazenly admitted to the camera that they knew about lawlessness, but why wouldn't they issue measures when the pandemic law allows them to do so? And another minister without blur said that the measures wanted to make life difficult for one group of citizens, i.e. for those who weren't vaccinated. And that's another phenomenon in the law. For the accumulation of enormous power in the hands of one person - now it has improved, it will be three, maybe four - which need not be consulted with anyone, no one has to sanctify it and everything goes beyond the House, there have been dozens of lawlessness, out of absolutely any control of anyone, to clear, even explicit, abuse of political power. And all of this is made possible by the pandemic law, to the extent that it has never been here before. I have one more comment to make on the dangers of similar approaches. She explained it in such an exclusive form in one of her detectives, Christie Agatha, when she said that if someone learned how to solve problems by murder, it would become a habit. Totalitarian tendencies present similar dangers for the future. The judicial protection against lawlessness under the pandemic law is ineffective. You can turn to the court, but it's good for the passing of time. The possibility of legal defense is thus set. Before the Supreme Administrative Court decides, his decision, however right, is completely useless, because the measure no longer applies and is issued new, and often again illegal. We often witness duty... [[Your time, Congressman, is up.]] Thank you. So I'm just reminding you... [[Time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u75	You can rejoin the debate if you want. Now, Mrs Karla Maříková will appear and she has two applications in a row, which means you will have ten minutes, twice five minutes, as approved. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, esteemed government torso. When I look, we only have two ministers here, so I'm sure they're wondering what the opposition's opinion is. [[Minister Černochová: Minister.]] Please do not jump in, Madam Secretary, through the President, to speak to me. If you have something, you can get off on the microphone as much as I can. So the government is trying to push us through in a legislative emergency here, a law that in many ways very much restricts personal freedoms to citizens of the Czech Republic. As far as the content of the concept of legislative emergency is concerned, it is a special way of dealing with laws which the law assumes only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union may, on the basis of a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union, or of the European Union, or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Union or of the European Compliance with these conditions must be demonstrated by the Government of the Czech Republic, as a result of the House, sufficiently. Now let's hear what our Prime Minister has said, who de facto denied that there is a state where there should be a legislative emergency because he said he hoped that they would no longer apply the pandemic law. So the state of the legislative emergency isn't really the Prime Minister himself. Yet it is proceeding according to a non-existent state of legislative emergency, which is being abused here, and thus this act is unconstitutional. According to a number of findings of the Constitutional Court, my colleagues have quoted from a number of points, so I would mention the Constitutional Court finding of 2. 10. 2002, when the Constitutional Court points out that the process should be properly discussed. [[18.50 hours]] I quote: Only in a process-free process - constitutionally consistent management - can result in a legal and constitutionally consistent outcome, or decision, and therefore the procedural purity of the decision-making process - management - it is necessary to pay increased attention and to provide it with strong protection. If the principles thus recalled relate to the constitutional procedure before the public authorities and to the decisions given therein, the procedure provided for within the meaning of Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty shall apply. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, there is no reasonable reason to depart from these principles in matters of the control of the legislative process and in acts adopted by it, or legal standards, because, although the decision-making process in legislative activity differs to a certain extent from the decision-making process in the proceedings before other public authorities - and in this sense it can be seen as a sui generis decision-making process - the guiding principles of decision-making in which the final outcome is reached are identical in both cases. Moreover, it cannot be ignored that the consequences arising from legislative acts are certainly more significant for their social impact than in the case of individual defective decisions of other public authorities. Thus, in the legislative process, the demand for permanence, persuasion and the necessity of legal acts, on which the rule of law and the community's life also rests. However, such acts and also the achievement of the necessary authority of the legislatures cannot be achieved by any other means than by respect for the rules which, after all, The Chamber of Deputies, as an important holder of legislative power for this activity, has established itself by law. A number of lawyers also point out that the law should be discussed in the ordinary legislative process, because it limits citizens' rights in many respects. Nevertheless, the government does not take these arguments into account and wants to discuss this law violently in the short-term process without having proper discussions, experts have spoken and has been properly discussed in committees, and MEPs across the political spectrum have been able to comment on it. This is also pointed out by the well-known lawyer Vladana Vališová, who points out that in many respects the law limits personal freedom and freedom of movement in general. Because freedom is a central value in a democratic society, protected and guaranteed not only in our Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, but also in a number of international treaties. The importance of this fundamental right is demonstrated by the fact that it is already mentioned in the preamble to the Constitution and stands in an honorable position in the Charter. 1. Without freedom, you cannot lead a full life and exercise many other rights. So the government here doesn't even take into account that it limits citizens' freedom in this way, and yet it wants to push the pandemic law through the short-term negotiations. The person's freedom shall be based on the principle of inviolability of the person guaranteed under Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, (?) The Charter and it is rightfully delegated, it can be reduced and human liberty can also be deprived. In considering legal interference with personal freedom, the constitutional article should be kept in mind. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 of the Charter. The limits of fundamental rights and freedoms may only be governed by law under the conditions laid down in the Charter. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, No one shall be deprived of liberty other than for reasons and in the manner laid down by the law. In the view of the Constitutional Court, which stated in its judgment of 12 August 1998, there is no difference between restriction and deprivation of liberty in substance, but only in degree or intensity. In the Constitutional Court's judgment of 22 March 2011, the Constitutional Court then made a further request for legislation restricting fundamental rights, despite the clarity in the wordings and sufficient predictability. It is a question of whether restrictions on personal freedom need to be viewed through the so-called European Conventions, because according to Art. 10 constitutions are ratifyable international treaties as part of our legal order and, in the event of a violation of the law, they have an application priority. Therefore, if a provision of the law should not fulfil the condition laid down in some of the reasons for the permissible restriction on freedom laid down in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Law, it should not fulfil the condition laid down in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Law. 5 of the European Convention, it would be a restriction of legal but illegal. This government is not taking any account of it, and yet it is trying to push through this pandemic pasquila in a shortened process of legislative emergency. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 14 Charters. The limits of these freedoms are set out in its third paragraph as follows: These freedoms may be limited by law if this is essential for the security of the state and the maintenance of public order, the protection of health or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. In a similar manner, these freedoms are governed by the provisions of Article 3 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 3 (2) (b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 2 (1) No restrictions can be imposed on the exercise of these rights except those laid down by law and necessary in a democratic society for the sake of national security, public security, maintaining public order, preventing crime, protecting health or morals, or protecting the rights and freedoms of others. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 (1) (a) The provisions of Protocol 4 to the European Convention shall be limited to the right of residence and movement in such a way that, in certain areas, they may be subject to restrictions laid down under law justified by the public interest in a democratic society. It is not always so easy to distinguish between personal freedom and freedom of movement and residence. In view of the nature of the restrictions in the amendment to the Pandemic Law, the author, Dr. Vladana Vališová, would be best applied to house arrest according to the European Court of Human Rights by analogy. The intensity of restrictions, the possibility to leave the reserved space and the effects on life limited are similar. In the matter of Trijonis against... Lufthanse argued that, in the case of a restriction lasting all day, it was a waiver of personal liberty, whereas if a prisoner could go to work and was under house arrest only from 19.00 to 7.00 in the morning, it was a restriction on freedom of movement. [[correct: against Lithuania]] According to the Constitutional Court's ruling of 22 November 2019, interventions in freedom of residence must be duly justified, i.e. their justification must be up-to-date, concrete and convincing. A restriction which would not meet these basic parameters could not be considered to be justified and legal. In this way, the government wants to restrict the lives of citizens by means of the pandemic law, and it does not want to lead a proper debate and tries to force this through a short legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u77	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Mr Oldřich Černý is now duly enrolled in the debate, and before he starts his speech, I will read the apology. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes between 18.30 and 00. By the end of the day, I think he means this in his apology, i.e. today. And another apologies to Mrs Ivana Mádlová from 23.00 to the end of the negotiations for work reasons. Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek without giving any reason. And there were other apologies. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologizes on 1 January. 2. between 19 and 24 o'clock, until the end of the day, due to illness. Furthermore, Mr Petr Vrána apologizes today between 19 and 24 o'clock until the end of the day for reasons of work. That's an apology so far. And now I ask Mr Oldřich Černý to take the floor, and since he is registered twice in a row, we will give him two or five minutes. You'll have ten minutes together. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u78	Good evening. Thank you for your word. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable citizens of the Czech Republic, I would like to begin by saying that there is absolutely no reason to approve this law and its amendment in a state of legislative emergency. As you all may have noticed, there was quite a big demonstration in Prague on Sunday and a march against covido measures, including the pandemic law. In case you haven't noticed that this demonstration took place, there's no wonder. Many media have only informed marginally about it, for example Czech Television has devoted only a few short sentences to this demonstration in its main news programme Event. Just a few short sentences, it was a total of about four sentences, and the whole story only lasted 23 seconds. In this time, neither of you will pee properly, so it was short. This was not a demonstration of any kind. Professionals from the disciplines, who certainly have something to say about the issue of covido measures and the subject of the pandemic law, have appeared on it. Professionals who know that this law, this amendment, is a great injustice. They were doctors, pharmacists, and lawyers. They all pull together, and there aren't many. It is no wonder that Czech Television has reported so little about this demonstration. Also, it seems to have completely walled up a massive - I repeat, giant - demonstration in Ottawa, Canada's capital. The report was only five sentences and lasted 22 seconds, and this was such a huge demonstration that Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had moved out of Ottawa on Saturday to be sure of the arrival of trucks with protesters. And even this was not mentioned in this report on Czech Television. Yes, there are several hours less in Canada than in our country, i.e. at the time of the evening demonstration, but it was already known how big it will be. The Czech Television announced the demonstration more widely only yesterday, even at the end of its main news programme. Apparently, she had to, because a demonstration that big couldn't just be crossed. However, our citizens see it, see how it is reported unilaterally, how certain information is withheld or distorted, does not give space to all opinions, and therefore they are desperate. Thousands of them have flooded our parliamentary e-mail boxes with requests in the last few days to wipe this pandemic law off the table. They wrote to us, the Members, the whole families and the working team. They wrote citizens of all ages, from second grade pupils to seniors. It really is a cross-section of almost the whole Czech society. Not all e-mails were just the name of one person, one voter or a voter. My colleagues and I from the SPD, unlike the members of the government coalition for these e-mails, we are happy to... Sometimes they have, and in some ways, it's a good connection from the voters. I personally answered hundreds of these e-mails. When reading these thousands of e-mails, I noticed one important thing: In many e-mails, the writers made a clear statement that the SPD did not vote, but chose some of the sides of the five-calice. When they see how government parties oppose democracy and totalitarianism when they see that this pandemic law brings back times long ago when they see government five-calibers trample on freedom and democracy, they regret their October elections. They regret that they voted for democracy and one of the government parties of your five-wheeler, and they beg us, SPD MPs, to help us fight for freedom and democracy. We are fighting and we will always fight for freedom and democracy. That is why I strongly protest against this amendment to the law, which will introduce a permanent emergency situation and give several people the right to restrict citizens' freedom, as they please. It's a dictatorship. Some people tell us that it was because of the freedom in 1989 that the keys were ringing in the squares. But they certainly did not clink to reinstate the dictatorship in order to limit the freedom of citizens. I would like to ask the members of the government coalition here whether they responded to some of these emails and, if so, what they replied. I don't know who exactly to point this at, but I'd really like someone from the five-calice government here to tell on the microphone who and what of those citizens who were protesting the pandemic law answered. That is, if any of you have ever responded to any of your citizens. Is that possible? I can't believe it's gonna be possible. Okay, since you probably didn't read the letters and requests either, since you ditched the views of the voters, the citizens that made you here in the Chamber of Deputies, I will allow myself to choose a small part of the thousands and thousands of citizens' petitions. I really think, and I repeat again, that there is no reason to approve this law and its amendment in a state of legislative emergency. I quote from Ing's e-mail. ar. Tereza Š: I turn to you with a request: Do not return the Czech Republic by the pandemic law to totalitarianism. Do not allow one person to have unlimited power in unlimited time. During the pandemic, we could see how many personalities took turns as Minister of Health. It's naive to think there'll always be a man who won't abuse this power. Let our children grow up in a free and legal state, cancel, like some states in Europe, all restrictions and bans associated with covid and leave responsibility for your health to every citizen. Anyone who wanted to get inoculated. I'll leave out the debate about a vaccine that protects only him, but it certainly doesn't protect others. It is therefore absurd not vaccinated against covid-19 in any way restricting and constantly pissing him off. Do not allow bullying among children to continue and congratulate due to the segregation of the unscathed together. Not all adults (?) they can work without harm in the psyche at this time. Let's not deny them and their parents sports, culturally live, without distinction. [[Kids?]] There's a record increase in obese children in the past year. Many will no longer emerge from it and grow into risky individuals. Do we really want this as a society? Do we want to be protected by law, by constant measures and not to live, but to survive? I beg you to think critically from all possible angles. In this context, I must also mention schools. A few days ago, I received information from one of my grandparents - quote: I have a grandson in first class, he blinked and had to have a muzzle all the way up to 15 hours, even though he was tested. He coughed at home this morning and was afraid to go to school to wear a mask again. End of quote. Is that what we really want? Do we want our little defenseless children to be afraid to go to school? I mean, they can suffer the consequences their whole lives. And there's gonna be a whole company on it, not just the individual. We need to get the kids back to school without conditions. And by this pandemic law, we're certainly not going to do that. I'm sure you didn't. Furthermore, I choose from the vast correspondence of thousands of desperate e-mails from citizens and from the voters of the parties and movements from all over the political spectrum: honourable Member, Member, Senator, Senator. Yes, it was written to the senators. Do you even know? The Parliament of the Czech Republic should decide on the amendment to Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of Covid Disease and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts. As a mother and a nurse, I ask you to vote against this law, which I sincerely fear for, and I fear for freedom, and I fear for the future of living under this law. I do not understand why something that can be easily abused in the future is being approved on such short notice, and it is precisely at a time when the omicron, which behaves as elsewhere in Europe, is being passed through the population without the burden of hospitals and, above all, it is manifesting itself mainly with light symptoms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss this point, and Mrs Iveta Štefanová, with whom I record two applications, is another duly signed up, which means ten minutes together. And next up, Mrs Marie Pošarová is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u80	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment here on a situation of legislative emergency. There is no reason to approve this law and its amendment in a state of legislative emergency, for these reasons. The amendment to the pandemic law gives government officials the authority to interfere in people's lives, their privacy and their work. It also creates an environment in which human rights guaranteed by the Constitution are threatened in the background of health or safety, and therefore a much longer discussion is needed than approving this law in a state of legislative emergency. Plus, a law that we don't think is necessary at all. Pandemic law and extension for a fixed or indefinite period is essentially an otherwise named emergency state and means the possibility of restricting freedom, entrepreneurship, movement, without any relevant reasons. This need for legislative emergency is argued by the government in order to have the opportunity to intervene at the time of any other fall wave of covid-19 disease, so it needs to discuss and approve this law as quickly as possible. At this point, the situation around the covide is stable in the disease and the next weeks, according to the Ministry of Health's statement, are about to unwind. Why, then, do we need to approve this law, at least controversial, urgently in a state of legislative emergency? I do not agree that the pandemic law is needed as such. We have legislation at our disposal that allows us to respond to a change in the health situation. It's a law on public health protection and crisis law. In the event of approval, the amendment will put a legal instrument in the hands of the current government to establish a covidate dictatorship. First of all, the amendment to the pandemic law on emergency measures in the Covid-19 epidemic is intended to give the government an instrument to apply this law for an unlimited period of time. And we are here today to discuss whether it is necessary to pass such a law in a state of legislative emergency, where, in theory, the government could shut down our country for precautionary reasons in lockdown restrictions for a few years. The government even proposes that the possibility of issuing various anti-covoid measures should also apply to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The amendment also allows the Ministry of Health to limit business and the operation of primary and secondary schools without the government having to declare any emergency. There are many irregularities in this law and its proposed amendment, which need a long discussion without which it is not possible to submit this law for approval, and therefore there is no reason for the need for a legislative emergency to deal with this law. For example, in the section of the amendment on the special provisions of the isolation regulation or quarantine measure in the government proposed amendment, we read about the possibility of quarantine notification or isolation, for example, just a text message, which can be entrusted with the so-called other appropriate person. In addition to me, other members of the Health Committee criticised this form of notification. The explanation by the Ministry of Health why it chose such a possibility of notification was that the main reason is to save time. An announcement by phone or text can be made practically immediately, when we meet today with a delay of several working days. According to the amendment, a person who receives such a notification may request the public health authority to investigate the merits of this Regulation in writing within three working days when the investigation will subsequently take place. So when I get a text from an unknown number, I'm identified as a risk contact, and I'm now quarantined to verify that this message is true, I'm going to contact the competent authority in writing the next day and request an investigation. I presume that most people so concerned about the authenticity of the report will take advantage of this possibility. So I ask, in what way does the government want to ensure that this does not lead to abuse, that people will not receive mass announcements of quarantine or isolation? How can it be ensured that this does not result in further congestion of the system and, in fact, in turn, in the extension of this notification process and in the emergence of general chaos? Is that technically even possible? I'm afraid not. But it certainly needs to be resolved before we can discuss the approval of such a law. And that's another reason why there's no legislative emergency in this case. Thanks to this amendment, the Ministry of Health will reduce business very effectively without having to declare an emergency. It will be able to close the outdoor sports or swimming pool at any time. He'll be able to restrict or disrupt private actions. By approving the amendment, it would be declared war on all free people and entrepreneurs who refuse to submit to the state for the sake of refusing to close or segregate their establishments on vaccinated and unvacated citizens. After approval of this amendment, it will be able to impose a liquidation penalty on these entrepreneurs up to CZK 3 million. Let us hope that the government will understand that it must still have a discussion and dialogue with a significant part of society and look for compromise solutions instead of bluntly enforced restrictions. This would only result in a significant part of the company not complying with them. Legal regulations are generally respected only if they have logic. If the law dictates nonsense, people do not accept it and ignore it. Unfortunately, we have been in this situation for a long time and by approving this amendment, in addition to the so-called legislative emergency, we would have deepened it. In contrast to the emergency situation, which must be revised for its exceptionality every month, the House now gives the Bianko check to the Minister of Health with exaggeration to anything that might come to mind. Such a law must be discussed in standard proceedings. Again, the current situation of covid-19 does not require us to discuss an unacceptable law, and this is urgent in a legislative emergency. Moreover, no conditions, such as the number of patients or hospitalised, are laid down for the condition of pandemic alert. No similar emergency situation, however it may be called, must be introduced without conditions, without revision in certain time sections, and certainly not directly by law. It is intended to determine only the conditions under which such a condition can be declared. Another reason that merely illustrates that the pandemic law has nothing to do in our legal order, and especially not to discuss in a state of legislative emergency, is the fact that policies, that is, the Minister, and not the health authorities, decide on specific measures in the area of human health. Why just this diagnosis? What measures will be taken in the event of an epidemic is supposed to be in the hands of hygiene. The government should not present this law in a legislative emergency. As I said before, the situation is stable and measures need to be relaxed. The D.O.D. declares they'll go for it, too. It is necessary to prepare for the possible situation in the coming autumn. Yes, there is a need to prepare, but a sensible and not timely re-constitutional law, plus a speedy trial. The government should therefore forget the attempt to amend this standard conferring absolute uncontrolled power in the hands of one policy of the ruling coalition, without the possibility of effective legal defence of citizens against its abuse and without any revision of the measures granted and the duration of the state of the pandemic in time and should allow only one quality law - the Public Health Act. So that there should be a general legal standard for all diagnoses as well or similarly, so that the competence of the hygiene authorities as the professional authorities of the state administration is clearly given. The House should abolish the pandemic law as a whole. It is a complete legal pasquil that allows gross and historically unprecedented abuse of political power. This would be one less law and one more step towards a return to the principles of the rule of law. I find no reason to discuss and approve this law in a state of legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u81	Thank you, too, Madame. Even in your case, thanks for keeping up with the time. The next enrollment with two applications is Mrs Marie Pošarová and Mr Jan Síla will be prepared. I will first turn off the time machine and now I will turn it on for you and you may speak, Madame. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u82	Thank you for the floor. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the Government may abuse the emergency, which is why I am speaking to you today. This is a great challenge for us, the opposition. What does the current regime of legislative emergency mean for the Czech state? How did the Constitutional Court define its boundaries and can the lawmaking process in the Czech Republic be negatively influenced by lawyers? However, due to the risk of temporary restrictions on democratic principles in the state, it is also necessary to ensure that the government does not abuse it for its own purposes. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] In a state of legislative emergency, the Chamber of Deputies may, within a very short period of time, approve laws that respond to acute problems associated with covid-19 Coronavirus disease, and do not tolerate delay. Likewise, the Senate can act very quickly in the short-term negotiations, as has been shown in the vote...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u83	I apologise, Madame, but I will ask my fellow Members to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u84	... about government proposals. However, this is not just about shortening parliamentary procedures. In fact, if a state of legislative emergency is declared and the bill is to be discussed in a short procedure, there are certain exceptions in the Government's legislative rules for preparing such a bill. For example, there is no need for a previous substantive intention or a process of commenting on the proposal is loosened. How is the adoption of laws in a legislative emergency? Compared to the standard legislative process, the short-term negotiations do not have a first reading. It does not have fixed dates and some time limits do not apply. The President of the House shall order a proposal directly from one of the committees and shall set an unbreakable time limit by which the committee must present a resolution with an opinion on the proposal. In its resolution, the Committee will propose whether a general debate is to be held on the bill and on which parts the debate will be conducted in detail. It will also propose a deadline for the House to end negotiations on the bill. Subsequently, a second reading of the bill is held, and it can be abandoned from the general debate, which is decided by the House. Speaking time can be reduced to five minutes. The third reading of the bill can take place immediately after the second reading. Within one day, the bill can be approved. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies state that it is possible to declare a state of legislative emergency in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage are significantly threatened. Therefore, if these circumstances persist, this exception to the normal legal proceedings may be applied. And who is responsible for him? The high level of responsibility lies with political representation. They must carefully consider the adequacy of its use. In a state of legislative emergency, the House shall assess whether the situation of the legislative emergency persists before discussing the agenda. Furthermore, before the draft law is discussed again, it is voting whether the state of the legislative emergency persists and whether the conditions for shortening the procedure for a specific law are laid down. And can it be abused? Absolutely. After all, there is also the caselaw of the Constitutional Court concerning the abuse of the state of legislative emergency. The Constitutional Court mentioned, for example, that this extraordinary instrument cannot be used to limit the legislative procedure by a parliamentary majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position with the bill and to prevent or delay its adoption. The Constitutional Court says: a legislative emergency cannot be used for a normal vote. A group of 45 Members attacked the Constitutional Court by a law setting a special rate of tax of 50 per cent for the contribution of natural persons to building savings under the relevant laws. The state contribution to the construction savings was claimed in 2010 and was awarded to the construction savings bank after 31. 12. 2010. At the same time, the Act reduced the amount of State aid advance from 15 per cent to 10 per cent of the amount saved each year, unless it exceeded CZK 20,000. Members argued that the law was contrary to constitutional order, both in view of the way it was adopted and its content. The appellants questioned the justification for discussing the proposal in a short procedure in a state of legislative emergency, resulting in a breach of certain constitutional principles relating to the parliamentary procedure for the adoption of laws. Their objections also led to the fact that only 40 minutes before the beginning of the emergency meeting at which the draft contested law had been reduced. The rights of the senators elected in the October 2010 elections were also limited. Why? The Senate's bill was discussed on 12 November 2010 in a composition corresponding to its 7th term of office 2008 to 2010, and the newly elected senators could not participate in this discussion. How did the Constitutional Court resolve the case in April 2011? The announcement of a state of legislative emergency and the negotiation of a draft law in a short-term negotiations substantially alters the structure of the legislative process and restricts its substance to the expressing of consent or opposition itself. This procedure can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. However, it is not possible to accept the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal instrument of limiting parliamentary legislative procedure by a majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position with the draft law and to prevent or delay its adoption by the Rules of Procedure using the means laid down by the Rules of Procedure. If the legislative procedure is to fulfil not only the function of voting but also the guarantee of free political competition, the possible requirement of rationalising it cannot be implemented by enforcing the state of legislative emergency by the government and the associated parliamentary majority. And if we go back to the original question, how, in particular, can the government of Mr.Petr Fiala exploit the state of legislative emergency for its own benefit, what should we be careful about? As I have already indicated, the greatest risk is the application of this exception in a situation where legal reasons for the duration of a legislative emergency will pass. If they persist, it is particularly important that, even in this special regime, adequate room for democratic debate is given, as these are often measures with far-reaching effects on the lives of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Does the opposition have enough room to do her job in a state of legislative emergency to oversee the government? It is undoubtedly a challenge for the opposition. Naturally, it does not have so much room to get to know government proposals, and the debate in Parliament also has limits. In public space, more than ever, government decisions are also dominated by reports. The conditions for declaring an emergency state are precisely defined by the decision of the Constitutional Court of March 2011. And how does that define the role of the opposition? This finding says that, given the constitutionally guaranteed principle of minority protection, representatives of the parliamentary opposition must be allowed to exercise their guaranteed rights in the framework of legislative procedures, even though they do not directly participate in the exercise of government power and what they usually find themselves in a minority. The most fundamental rights of the parliamentary opposition can be included, according to the finding, in particular rights guaranteeing the minority participation in parliamentary procedures. Rights enabling the opposition to exercise supervision and control over the ruling majority and the government itself. Furthermore, these are rights enabling parliamentary opposition to block or delay decisions taken by the majority, as well as rights allowing opposition to seek constitutional review by the majority of decisions taken, laws. Finally, it is also about rights protecting the opposition and its individual members from persecution and will on the part of the majority. I believe that there is no justification for the state of legislative emergency at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u85	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Mr. Jan Síla will now appear. He's got two applications here. Mr. Jan Hrnčíř will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u86	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, so far we have heard reasons for refusing to discuss the pandemic law in a state of legislative emergency mostly from a legal point of view. I would like to inform you about the current state of the so-called coronavirus pandemic from a medical point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u87	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. But once again, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask you to keep your voice down so that it is understood what the Member is speaking. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u88	I would like to inform you about the current state of the so-called coronavirus pandemic from a medical point of view, which will draw the conclusion of the parties to the legislative emergency. Let me inform you about the latest findings on omicron. What we know about the creepy subvariate of Omicron BA. 2? A close relative of the omicron has mutations that alter his behavior. Interestingly, from a phylogenetic point of view, it appears to be a completely unrelated subvariant with omicron. A highly contagious variant of the SARS-CoV-2 omicron virus, the most common form of which is known as the BA.1 variant, now represents almost all coronavirus infections in the world. Although the number of covid cases has reached its peak in some countries, scientists are now monitoring the increase in cases caused by close relatives of microns known as the BA.2 variant, which is starting to compete with the BA.1 subvariant in some parts of Europe and Asia. So far we know the following about this new subvariant. On a global scale, the BA.1 virus accounted for 98,8% of the sequenced cases sent to the public virus monitoring database on 25 January of this year. According to the World Health Organization, however, several countries have recently reported an increase in the variant BA.2. In addition to BA.1 and BA.2, the WHO lists two other subvariants under the omicron header: BA.1.1.529 and BA.3. They are all genetically closely related, but each of them contains mutations on its surface that can change their antigenic behavior. Trevor Bedford, a virologist at the Fred Hutchinson Centre of the United States, wrote on Twitter on Friday: The BA.2 option represents about 82 percent of the cases in Denmark, 9 percent in the United Kingdom and 8 percent in the USA. Version BA.1 omicron was slightly easier to track than previous variants. This is because the BA.1 variant lacks one of the three target genes used in the normal PCR test. In cases showing this formula, it was normally assumed that they were caused by the BA gene. 1. Omicron BA.2, sometimes referred to as creepy subvariant, does not have the same missing target gene. Instead, scientists follow it in the same way as previous variants, including delta variants, by monitoring the number of virus genomes sent to public databases. As with other variants, infection with the BA.2 virus can be detected using the home testing kit of coronavirus, although experts say it is not possible to determine which variant it is. The question is: is this variant even more contagious? Some early reports suggest that the BA.2 variant may be even more contagious than the already extremely contagious variant BA.1 but there is no evidence that this subvariant of protection against vaccination is more likely to escape. Based on preliminary data, Danish health professionals estimate that the BA.2 variant may be 1.5 times more portable than the BA.1 variant of omicron, although it is unlikely to cause more serious diseases. In England, the preliminary analysis of contact monitoring from 27 December to 11 January of this year, carried out by the British Agency for Health Safety, indicates that the transmission in households is higher in the contacts of people infected with BA.2, that is 13,4%, and compared to other cases of omicron 10.3 %.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u89	Mr. Ambassador, I apologize for entering into your speech, but there should be speeches aimed at whether or not there is a legislative emergency. [[I'll get to it.]] Please stick to the present point and the subject under discussion. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u90	I'll get to it right away. The fundamental question is whether people who have been infected in the BA.1 wave will be protected from BA. 2. This raises concerns in Denmark, where some sites where a high number of cases of infection have been reported report an increasing number of cases of BA.2. My point is to explain the current state of affairs, but most importantly, what can be expected for the future. And this is what I want to relate to the approach to legislative distress, whether or not it is necessary to promote the legislative need in some way. Yes? The good news is that vaccination and strengthening vaccines are still protecting people from the hospital and preventing them from dying. The most significant occurrence so far is the occurrence of this variant here in Denmark, Australia and India. The United Kingdom only has 607 sequences. The evidence from our colleagues in Denmark so far shows that although this option can spread faster, there is no evidence of increased seriousness. Therefore, it is important to maintain calm and to continue existing measures such as getting vaccinated, including a booster dose, and to observe spacing, wear drapes, and respect local quarantine measures. Just the 4R. In the country, despite the decision of the government, the coronavirus is still ongoing. According to local health authorities, the BA.2 subvariant already prevails, which is more contagious than the Omicron variant, but does not cause more serious covid-19 disease. It is about 1.5 times more infective than the original omicron, but the analysis did not detect a higher risk of hospitalization at the same time. Therefore, beyond the reasons given by my previous speakers, this means summarized: Czech law contains sufficient legislation to deal with epidemics, it is contained in the law on the protection of public health, possibly the so-called crisis law can be applied. The bill completely ignores existing legal institutes for the protection of public health, especially the so-called pandemic plan, which exists, for example, in cases of new influenza mutations and which is based on expert opinions - see resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic No. 682 of 14. 9. 2011. At the same time, the pandemic plan should be the main instrument of the state in dealing with any epidemiological situation. Yet the government has not used the existing instrument to date and is pushing the amendment to the pandemic law in a so-called legislative emergency. From this point of view, a conclusion can be drawn. Not only from a legal point of view, but also from a medical point of view, it is not in the public interest to discuss the pandemic law, but also in a state of legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u91	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now perform with his contribution. He's got two applications here, twice five minutes. And Mr. Jaroslav Bašta will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I must say I'm in shock. I am shocked at the way in which this five-police government here approaches the constitutional rights of the citizens of this country. [[He speaks close to the microphone, his voice sounds too loud.]] You think the citizens of this country are stupid enough to be transferred, outsmarted by putting restrictions on constitutional rights into the ordinary law and pretending to...? [[Reactions in the room to the speaker so he doesn't scream so much.]] Please don't shout. But thank you. I'll try to turn it down. Okay, I'll step on it. You don't think they're gonna figure it out? That you restrict constitutional rights by ordinary law and you act like we're the good guys, we take good care of you, we don't want emergency situations, we put it into law, it'll be there all the time, and whenever we need it, it'll actually pay without having to declare anything? Without parliamentary control. No problem. Are you Democrats? I want to believe it's just ignorance. The ignorance of fundamental rights and freedoms. Therefore, allow me to introduce you to those rights in my contribution. Maybe it'll help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u93	I beg you, fellow Members, don't yell at the Member, he has a strong voice and he understood that it would be good to take it down a notch. [[I'm sorry, I'm not doing this on purpose.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, I don't want to interrupt you, please continue. [[- I'll try.]] It'll be nice if you take your voice down a little bit. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u94	The basis of each state's constitutional law is to define the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. The constitutional regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms is determined primarily by the possibilities of state regulation and the resources available to the State. Constitutional rights of fundamental rights and freedoms must operate in accordance with other normative systems, such as morality, religion, politics. The core of the vast majority of the constitution is the constitutional regulation of the relationship between public authority and individual. Our Constitution does not specify this relationship directly because it has failed to reach agreement on possible amendments to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. A compromise solution was therefore adopted, according to which the Charter is not part of the Constitution but of the Constitutional Order. However, this does not change the legal nature of the regulation of fundamental rights and freedoms. However, this raises difficulties in addressing issues relating to the relationship between the Constitution and the Charter, which do not correspond precisely to each other and require interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms does not contain their precise definition and final list. It is therefore not possible to draw up an exhaustive list of citizens' rights and freedoms. However, we must therefore abide by what rights and freedoms are considered fundamental by the Constitutional Devotor. The Charter is not only a Charter of Fundamental Rights but also a Charter of Freedoms. Although it states in its title that it is the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, it does not involve any legal consequences. It also often confuses the concepts of law and freedom. In the Charter, it is necessary to understand the provisions on which such powers are conferred on the State. Freedom is linked to the definition of autonomous spaces in which the State or public authority should not intervene, such as health, freedom, property or privacy. Another difference between rights and freedoms is that, in the case of fundamental rights, it is necessary to point out their anchoring in the constitutional regulation, whereas this is not necessary in the case of freedoms. Because people are born free, as in Art. 1 The General Declaration of Human Rights and Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of the General Declaration of Human Rights shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms does not have to prove that the law grants them any particular freedom. [[listed]] Freedom is thus an expression of natural justice. Therefore, citizens can do everything that the law does not forbid them, as it is written in Art. Article 2 (1) (a) 3 of the Charter. Individual rights have a basis in law, and their existence needs to be demonstrated in order to exercise them against public authorities. On the contrary, in the case of freedom, a public authority should demonstrate that the law prohibits or commands individuals to act. That is why this institute is here to declare this emergency or exceptional situation, where the real intervention of public authority into the freedoms of citizens, and it is really in situations that threaten the state, threatening its citizens, but it is not possible to anchor it by some ordinary law, which, moreover, has some permanent, unlimited validity. [[unintelligible]] That's total nonsense. In order to mark citizens' rights and freedoms in summary, the Constitutional Devotor used the designation of fundamental rights and freedoms. This name affects all the rights and freedoms set out in the Charter. In addition, of course, it also uses other markings. Unlike human rights, which always applies, everywhere and for everyone, it is rights that are positive in the constitutional document of the highest legal force. In the context of the Charter, the issue of human rights protection is an important issue. Natural approaches to fundamental rights and freedoms of man would not have to worry about this problem, because, as the state recognises fundamental rights through a constitution or access to an international convention, it cannot destroy them. However, legal guarantees are a product of the state and therefore do not automatically result from the natural nature of human rights. The positive approach to fundamental rights and freedoms of man is just putting emphasis on their enforcement and their inalienability. However, if constitutional arrangements for fundamental rights and freedoms are to have the character of subjective public law, regardless of their origin, they must be positively legally enshrined in order to be able to enforce them against State power. In the Czech Republic, only constitutionally guaranteed and explicit constitutionally formulated rights can be invoked against state power, as follows from Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Article 4 (1) (a) (d) constitutions. In the Charter, the rights and freedoms that are constitutionally guaranteed are thus guaranteed to be governed not only by executive power and justice, and which are bound by the Constitution, but also by legislative power. They have the character of subjective public law, defining the relations between the individual and the State, i.e. the public power of each other, from which specific rights attached to the person themselves arise for private individuals. They have special content, which means ensuring the autonomy of the premises of the individual protected from public intervention and the ability of the individual to participate in the administration of public affairs, as well as the demands of the individual against the State, so as not to be treated by the State (?) as well as with others and did not discriminate against him. They arise directly on the basis of a constitution or an international treaty, not a specific legal relationship. They shall be enforceable against the State by means of an independent judicial authority or, where appropriate, an international authority, as referred to in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 4 Constitutions. This can also be done in accordance with Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 1 Constitution according to which the Czech Republic is a democratic rule of law based on respect for human rights and freedoms. It also follows that all state authorities must abide by this rule. Fundamental rights and freedoms are also under the protection of judicial authority. Not only the Constitutional Court, but also the general courts must protect these rights and freedoms in their decisions. Since the executive authorities are under judicial control, this ensures the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms in this area of state power. This also applies to legislators bound by constitutional regulations. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Constitution guaranteed rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. For the record, we are in a debate when we are discussing whether there is a legislative emergency. And I'm going to ask that your arguments be directed to this subject. Mr Jaroslav Bašta is now duly signed in with his other five minutes and Mr Karel Sládeček is ready for debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u96	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, another quote from Dr Hamplová's commentary is that I want to fill in the creative function of the parliamentary debate in particular. In the Czech Republic, we have 2 million legislation and we have legal order for others. The Pandemic Law is one of those weed standards, because it increases the number of laws by another piece, which brings into the area it regulates, such chaos that with its understanding and application, experienced lawyers - lawyers and judges - have problems. Why? First of all, the area is to be regulated by Act No. 258/200 Coll., on Public Health Protection, and not a legal standard that is applied directly once, at other times refers to the Public Health Act and changes many other laws. All of this is exploitable to people, because the laws and all legal steps on their basis are to be, above all, understandable, clear and certain. The pandemic law is everything but inexplicable, and the measure that on its basis saw the light of the world, if it was legal at all, cannot be spoken of at all. [[19.50 hours]] No disease is supposed to have its own special standard. A number of other diseases that may be contagious may occur in the territory of the Republic and may threaten to become ill by a larger group of citizens. The special conditions for one diagnosis, which in this respect has been set aside completely outside the hygiene, completely outside the legislature, have been left completely without revision and justification in time, is an absolutely unstandard, incomprehensible procedure, in the legal order unprecedented, and incredibly exploitable, which is happening. To put it humanly, the pandemic law serves to enable a politician minister, and through the ruling political coalition, to do what he wants, when and how he wants, permanently and uncontrolledly, regardless of whether the situation in the country still corresponds, because the state of the pandemic emergency is introduced as a permanent one. Of course, I am convinced that those who prepared the pandemic law knew what they were doing. Because they have had an unprecedented strengthening of political power over people, because hygiene authorities would not help them with political decisions of the type of discrimination not vaccinated. So this power had to be rerouted into their hands by the pandemic law. And here I come to what Mr President required of us - to return to legislative need. Because when you start discussing the law in a state of legislative emergency and you hear arguments from all sides that it is unconstitutional, there is even a clear analogy to the Constitutional Court, so you have to look for another explanation of why it is done. And so I remembered the ancient Greek philosopher Hérakleit. She could be one of those explanations. And he said, "Purity must be put out before fire." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u97	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, including you sticking to the subject in the context of the debate. Mr Karel Sládeček will now appear. He's got two applications here, ten minutes. And then the duly registered Mr. Zlínský will appear. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but first I'm going to turn off the previous time machine so I don't waste your time. You can start talking. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies regulates a situation where there is no need to insist on a general legislative procedure and urgent action is needed. For this is the regulation of the legislative process in a state of legislative emergency. In a state of legislative emergency, laws can be discussed in exceptional circumstances if fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are substantially threatened or the security of the state is significantly threatened or when significant economic damage is threatened by the State. Only the Government can make a motion to declare such a situation and is hereby declared by the President of the Chamber of Deputies for a certain period of time. The House shall determine for what time the state of the legislative emergency may persist, may cancel or limit the period for which it has been declared. That means the House can only determine the time before the bill is discussed. A motion to declare such a situation may be declared in relation to a specific bill until such time as it is discussed. The purpose of the institute of legislative emergency is that the submitted government bill will be discussed in a shortened hearing. Unlike the general procedure, there is no first reading, the President of the House will order a bill to one of the committees, so the committee does not have a general period of 60 days, but a fixed time limit, within which to present a resolution with an opinion on the bill. Therefore, if he does not submit an opinion, the bill may still be discussed. The President of the House shall then designate the rapporteur. Where a resolution is tabled by the Committee, it shall propose whether a general debate is to be held on the draft law and on which parts a detailed debate will be held and shall propose a deadline for the House to end the negotiations on the draft law. If the House concludes that the conditions for declaring a situation of legislative emergency have passed, it shall cancel the situation of legislative emergency before the agenda is discussed. Each legislative process takes time. However, Parliament must be prepared for a situation where the legislative process needs to be accelerated. Even the parliaments of countries with a long democratic tradition have the tools to speed up this process, whether it is an institution of legislative emergency or other instruments that enable the legislative process to be accelerated. In the Czech Republic, the term "abbreviated negotiations" is used for this phenomenon. The Institute of Legislative Emergency was introduced into the Rules of Procedure when it was originally adopted in 1995. This institute was the only instrument for speeding up the legislative process. The Constitution does not contain any details concerning the length and procedure of the legislative process. The Constitution neither regulates the number of readings nor the time limit for the examination of the draft law in committees. The only detail of the parliamentary legislative process that the Constitution regulates is the 30-day lapse time within which the law must be discussed by the Senate. For this reason, the Constitution did not contain any institutes for shortening the legislative process, as this would prevent future legal regulation. Thus, at the time of the adoption of the Constitution in 1992, there was no law on the security of the Czech Republic, which, after inspiration from the House's Rules of Procedure, took over the constitutional text, with the fact that, in the case referred to in the Constitutional Security Act, when an emergency was declared, legislative emergency had not been declared, and yet a shortened negotiation of the bill could have taken place. The short-term negotiations were introduced in the context of emergency conditions - a state of war, a state of danger - directly by the constitution, because it contains a shortening of the constitutional Senate term of 30 days. This regulation of short-term conduct at constitutional level had no bearing on what the legislative process should look like in other cases. It did not regulate provisions which would imply that, in other, common cases outside the external security of the State, the legislative process could not or could have been shortened. By the amendment of the Constitution in 1999, emergency situations were designed to regulate the accelerated negotiations so that it was not necessary in these cases to declare in advance the state of legislative emergency. In fact, the general procedural regulation of the accelerated negotiations has been simplified to external security cases. In doing so, account has been taken of the past practice, which was based on the fact that, if a very rigidly revised state of legislative emergency is adopted, the accelerated negotiations in emergency situations could also be applied for the purpose of the State's security. The Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic thus took advantage of the knowledge with the application of the state of legislative emergency and shortened negotiations and anchored it in a modified form into a constitutional amendment. It was possible, like today, to shorten the 60-day deadline for committee discussions with the agreement of the appellant to one day. It was possible to discuss the bill in three readings at the same meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Until the Senate existed, it was possible to discuss and approve a government bill within a few days. Only after the Senate began practically problems with the fact that the law was passed later than the government originally assumed. However, the change took place only after a number of proposals had to be adopted in preparation for the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union. [[20.00 hours]] In 2000, the Institute adopted its consent to the draft law at first reading through the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time as the draft law, the appellant may propose to the House that the draft law be approved in the first reading. The reasons for such a proposal must be given in the explanatory memorandum. If the reason is the implementation of the obligations arising from the contracts by which the Czech Republic is bound, the petitioner will submit a full translation of the legal standards to be implemented. The expression of consent at first reading is a much more radical limitation of the ordinary legislative process than a legislative emergency. The legislative emergency limits negotiations and debates in the House, neither in the Committee nor in the Houses nor in the Committees in the submission of amendments and discussions on them. Contrary to the institute of legislative emergency, the institution of the adoption of the law in first reading means a significant limitation of all the proper procedures of the legislative process. Members are completely losing the opportunity to submit amendments, both in committees and in the House. This institute completely eliminates committees, second and third readings in the Chamber of Deputies. There is only a general debate at first reading and a vote on the use of the Institute, and then a detailed debate, a correction of legislative errors and a vote on the law as a whole. This concludes the discussion of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies, with the exception of the possible return of the law from the Senate or from the President of the Republic. The Institute of Consent to the draft law at first reading is a restriction on the voice of opposition Members, although the minority of opposition Members must be less than 50 Members and must include fewer than two MPs. Community minorities shall be protected by the right to refuse the use of this institute by at least 50 Members or at least two Members' clubs. This acceleration tool should allow easier implementation of EU law into the legal system of the Czech Republic. It was intended to replace the Institute of Government Regulations with the power of the law to implement the obligation to approximate the law arising from the Europe Agreement establishing an association between the Czech Republic, of the one part, and the European Communities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, including keeping the time you've been given. Mr Vladimír Zlínský is now in the debate. He's got two applications here, ten minutes. After that, Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u100	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I am also convinced that the condition of exceptional circumstances in Section 99 (1) (b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll. to declare a state of legislative emergency, as my previous speakers have mentioned, is not fulfilled in the case of the amendment to the pandemic law. The submitted amendment, as is apparent from the explanatory memorandum, is based in particular on the previous epidemiological situation and works with the delta variant, although in our country, as well as throughout Europe, the variation of coronanavir omicron prevails, which clearly has a lower pathogenicity and is comparable to influenza in most of the infected, and therefore does not require such hard surface measures. On the other hand, the effectiveness of these measures against the previous spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus seems retrospectively questionable, which proves many foreign studies whose list has been published on the website of the Brainstorm Institute by a clinical epidemiologist, a specialist on scientific methodology, a consultant on evidence based medical research, a graduate of University of Oxford, Dr. Paul Alexander. I would ask our government officials: Why do you want us to discuss such an important amendment to the law in such a hurry? That the pandemic law will end 28. 2. 2022, has been known all along. The fact that the covid-19 pandemic would not end at that date could most likely be assumed on the basis of previous covid-19 waves and the information on how the pandemic took place abroad and this new government had sufficient time to submit this amendment on time so that we could discuss it in a proper or slightly shortened term. We are not even in a situation where there is a risk that the epidemic will soon change rapidly. Rather, as many of our experts predict, we can expect a decline in the number of positive tested and patients very soon. Even now there is enough time to decide on the law in a short procedure for 15 days, because I believe that this amendment needs to be discussed further, albeit because of your inactivity only for a relatively short time. Your attempt to speed up the approval of this law raises great doubts in a substantial part of our society and increases already extraordinary social tensions and contradictions. Is the reason for your difficult to understand pressure to break these tense strings and to push through other laws that will go towards the complete introduction of totalitarian practices and repressive regime? Our society is slowly, but is currently falling faster into the chronic degeneration of our freedoms and democracies. In November 1989 a number of people went out into the streets and rang the keys in the hope that they would be called to a better, free society, where they would be free to express their views, where they would not have to speak differently at home and otherwise in public, and many believed that truth and love would prevail over lies and hatred. And I'll confess, including me. But instead, we have now called into a social situation where the arrogance of power reaches an incredible dimension. When white is bad and black is forbidden word. When history is distorted and a law is being prepared, on the basis of which some other information other than approved information will be declared misinformation and their carriers will be persecuted. This, in the end, is already happening in the media space, when citizens are afraid to publicly report to support some parliamentary parties or movements. Gradually, it is cut off from our freedoms under the cloak of protection of democracy, and the world wonders, our freedoms, under the cover of supposed and actual puffed-up dangers, and, on the contrary, real threats are judged to be supposed, ridiculous or entirely unlikely. All of this brings us closer to a new totalitarianism and then to a possible unwanted collapse. The amendment to the pandemic law, pushed by violence in the regime of legislative emergency, is also intended to contribute to this. I do not hope that the government and the government coalition will learn from the quote of an English author in the collapse of civilizations called Glubb. He's not a very famous author. But the sentence is interesting. His quote: "The only lesson that comes from history is that one never learns from it. " However, I took the liberty of bringing it here and expecting it to be fulfilled quickly during your reign, as the political and social situation accelerates both in our country and in the world. I'll take the liberty of mentioning one more book here. It's Professor Miroslav Bárta's book, which is one of our best Egyptologists. The last book he wrote is called Seven Laws. The Seven Laws describe a state in which human societies are collapsing. I'm not going to mention all seven laws here, and I might be able to get to them in time, and I'm going to mention the fourth and fifth laws here. [[20.10 hours]] The law of shared values and visions is number four: Each society and civilization is based on shared values, visions and implicit, i.e. unwritten law. At the same time, the increasing complexity of modern societies leads to the rocket growth of laws, their novels, decrees, regulations, whose visible indiscretion and nonsensibility then leads to a fall in legitimacy of those who publish and enforce these laws, and thus the disintegration of shared values and visions in society, not to mention implicit law. Law five - the law of the social treaty: Every civilization and society needs a functional social contract based on the mutual cooperation of individual parts of society for its stable existence. Representatives of the so-called elites have a fundamental influence on its quality and character. While leadership means, among other things, the ability to lead, guide and set the current social debate on the real priorities of civil society, the social agreement means the ability of society as a whole to deal with the interests of individual members and groups, to ensure equality of opportunity and respect for our obligations in the awareness of our rights, as well as a functional social agreement means that a high level of justice is maintained in society, enforceable in real time, where an individual may not feel like a victim of a dull system of regulations and provisions. The social treaty, the functionality of the elites, their cooperation with the majority population and strong civil society are absolutely crucial for managing difficult situations. And if they do not exist or are weakened, we have many reasons to expect problems. Finally, the professor says: If anyone does not have authority and knowledge, he resorts to authoritarian use of power and haunting. A society where elites in the leadership of the country tend increasingly to authoritarian enforcement of their regulations, unconsciously, in a better case, lead the country to totalitarianism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u101	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Foldyna will now appear within the scope of his application for a five-minute speech, followed by Mr Kettner. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Wait a minute. I'm gonna stop the time machine from cheating you out of time. And please, you can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u102	Someone forgot their glasses, my friends, such a nice, orange one. The ČSSD isn't here anymore, so it's not gonna be anybody from the ČSSD orange, and it's probably someone else. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't prepared any long lyrics to reconstruct here, I'll try to say it in my own words. In fact, this legislative emergency is an attempt by you to shut down Parliament from decision-making processes. You know, when I read that government statement and saw the first steps of that new government, I got a little worried. Not only do you want to shut down Parliament and create a legislative emergency here, in which three ministers will actually decide everything. You decided to castrate democracy. You've decided to make a correspondence choice, you've looked into it in America, when in that one state, those people who had an age average of 124 years voted, I hope that the power of the Čechoslovák will not be here, who have citizenship, that they will not vote and will not be 124 years old. It scares me a little bit, these attempts to simplify the decision-making process, even if it's in accordance with some so-called law or some sort of norm. We have seen several times that in the Czech Republic and then Czechoslovakia, the well-meaning law has always turned against people. We have witnessed that in the past, the Bolsheviks have learned to go to Moscow to twist the neck of democracy, and now your colleagues have decided to fly to the other side of the world to learn some similar tricks, probably because of the correspondence choice, so they can have better training. I just came here to say one thing. I am terrified that we would adopt a resolution on legislative need and let you rule without this Parliament. I think it is not good for citizens of the Czech Republic. And of course, and I don't think of you in the right way right now, but it's not gonna be good for you either, because these people are really upset, and I think they're gonna let you know that, too. Of course, I see the large division of forces 108, I mean 107, because the one on the training in the States, the other on the other side before, you're on the other side now. I am glad that the SPD is such a Czech phenomenon, the Czech national patriotic movement, that we are actually defending the national interests here, and now I am glad that the YES movement has joined. They may also join others who have not yet been through this Parliament, and there are not enough. Of course, I see the strategy where the right-wing Civic Democratic Party sits next to the Antifa political branch, alongside the pirát, that Mr Lipavský is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who belongs to the Antifa political branch. So we're worried that the legislative emergency will turn into something other than the legislator's thinking, as he defined it in the law. That is why I have come to say that I will not vote for this law, along with the entire SPD movement. Thank you. I don't want to keep you any longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear and prepare to speak with Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Please, Ambassador, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a little surprised. I think that a person, but above all a politician, should be consistent and readable in his opinions, and this especially applies to politicians. As far as the pandemic law is concerned, I'm not surprised. The current five-wheelers, when they were opposition, put everything on one card in the election fight, and now I'm starting to feel like it was a fake card. And I think their voters would deserve the consistency in their opinions. About the pandemic law. We live in a time of electronic data, everything is traceable, everything is easy to detect, you don't need a complex apparatus to find parchments and scrolls in the libraries. And I'd like to quote something here that I discovered from 1. 3. 2011: Plenum of the Constitutional Court by finding of 1. 3. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the constitutions in proceedings for the abolition of laws and other legislation complied with the proposal of a group of Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and with the end of 31. 12. 2011 repealed Act No. 347/2010 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with austerity measures within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. The basis of the proposal was the claim that the contested law had not been adopted in a constitutionally prescribed manner, namely the appellants argued that the government majority acted disproportionately and arbitraryly in the adoption of the law when it abused the institute of legislative emergency, etc. etc. [[20.20 hours]] That means there's been a situation here where we've had a legislative emergency, and it's been swept off the table. [[was]] If I take that legislative emergency, I will again quote: The Constitutional Order explicitly admits the possibility of discussing the Government's draft law in a shortened negotiation only on the basis of Art. 8 constitutional law on the security of the Czech Republic, at a time of state or state of war. And now I'm wondering in vain where we're at, for example, the state of war. Although, on the other hand, maybe some of the war hawks who are here may know more than we do, maybe they're getting ready for things to come. I don't know, I don't know. Anyway, I don't see any further reason to maintain a state of legislative emergency. The legislative emergency was created on the basis of a pandemic state. In general, we can see that everything is already loosening up, and for example, Denmark, which was among those countries with the greatest restrictions, announced today that it completely and completely abandons these restrictions. So I really don't see the reason to keep it going. So if we really need a law like that, I don't understand it when a lot of renowned lawyers - I'm a teacher, I'm not a lawyer, but I suppose these people are respected lawyers, so they probably know what they're saying, and they're buying into tiny little pieces of the law that we want to discuss in a legislative emergency. So I'm thinking, why push it through the legislative emergency? What is stopping us - because here it is still said that it will be necessary sometime in the autumn, we have enough time - to focus on it, and beyond the state of legislative emergency in the normal state of things, so that we can really think about it in depth, so that we can create working groups so that we don't create again some legislative scum that will make mischief. It wouldn't be the first time, and unfortunately, I don't think it would be the last time. And by the way, I've heard that the new government five-calice wants to unite people, that it wants to be for all citizens. So based on what's happening here, I assume that those citizens who protest against this and show you their disapproval, I assume you do not consider them citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u105	Thank you for your time and now Mrs Lucie Šafránková will speak and Mr Radovan Vích will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of Parliament, when assessing the legality of the application of the state of legislative emergency to a particular situation, to discuss a specific bill, it is also good and important from the overall perspective of the fundamental principles of parliamentaryism, while Parliamentarism can be seen as a set of values, institutions and procedures. Its existence is based primarily on certain rules of the game, which will be respected, whether any political party or coalition wins the election. At the same time, the greater the current supremacy of the government's majority, the less typical instruments of parliamentaryism are shown. At the same time, this also relates to the level of political culture, which is the result of long-term traditions, not just the result of one parliamentary term. Values and principles such as consensus, pluralism, principle of majority, protection of minorities, government for time, representative mandate and so on are reflected in the institutional plane of the existence of parliamentarism and, above all, in the spirit of predictability and legitimate expectation, the respect of these principles is reflected in the willingness of citizens to respect the rule of law and their loyalty to the state and its political regime. Let us bear this in mind today, when the government majority wants to break constitutional rules of the legislative process in an unprecedented way. The so-called autonomy of Parliament is also an important concept and principle. This is preserved only if the specific legislative procedures applied do not interfere with democratic rules, but only if they speed up the legislative process in a situation where opposition Members have the opportunity to comment on the matter, in voting, in debates or in the form of amendments. This is not fulfilled in the case of the application of the state of legislative emergency to the amendment to the pandemic law. By its decisions, the Constitutional Court established binding limits for political decisions, including for futuro, when it restrictively defined the situations in which the Institute of Legislative Emergency should be used in the future. These restrictive decisions are the limits by which the Constitutional Court expressed the superiority of the Constitution over all other circumstances affecting such decisions. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the negotiation of a bill under the legislative emergency regime with a restriction of parliamentary debate is reserved only for extraordinary circumstances - these have not now occurred, in the context of the amendment under discussion today - and points out that this circumstance may mean, and in the past it has also meant a clear reason for the subsequent abolition of the entire law under such a process by the Constitutional Court. According to the Constitutional Court, the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency must also be assessed with regard to the time of decision-making and the amount of information available at the time of the decision-making. It is also necessary to take account of the intensity of the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency in comparison with the limitations of the constitutional principles concerned. However, these reasons must not be arbitrary and must be based on a specific amount of damage, unless the proposed law is adopted as soon as possible. The proposed law, which the government proposes in the short legislative process, must be an appropriate means of preventing any harm or threat to the public interest, which does not apply in the case of the amendment to the pandemic law itself. An obstacle to the abuse of the Institute of Legislative Emergency is merely the legal definition of the reasons on which this situation can be declared. According to the Constitutional Court, these reasons must be consistent with the Constitution and must be reviewed. Therefore, the consensus of Parliament, although achieved across the political spectrum of the legislature, is not enough to declare a state of legislative emergency. The Constitutional Court also did not recognise the obstruction of opposition Members as an exceptional condition within the meaning of § 99 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In this case, it is about protecting the rights of the parliamentary opposition, which is a minority. If the opposition objects to non-compliance with the standard legislative procedure for the adoption of new laws, no element of extraordinaryness can be seen in these objections. The opposition under the Constitutional Court in this case merely exercised its right to protect its rights in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the abuse of the state of legislative emergency that we are watching live today is a suspension and degradation of the lower parliamentary chamber, of all its Members, not just us in opposition. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u107	Madam, in any case, I commend you for actually sticking to the subject of debate. Mr Radovan Vích will now appear and prepare Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Ambassador, your other five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u108	Yes, thank you. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna finish my previous performance, so I'm gonna keep going free. The Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommended an amendment to the pandemic law with effect until November 2022. But that, in my opinion, is a Solomonian solution, because in autumn it is quite common that flu diseases are rampant, and it would be that there would be no further mutations of covid, such as the zéta, which will be supported by supportive arguments for extending this pandemic law. So the possibility of extending the pandemic law until November 2022 is also dangerous. It would be far more convincing if the government's five-calice or health committee proposed to end the effectiveness of this law on the date when it can be expected to end the current covid wave, now under the name omicron, probably at the end of February, or the draft of this point of the law in my opinion, it would be appropriate to withdraw from today's hearing and the pandemic law, as it is now being amended, would then expire on 28 February. That, in my opinion, is logical. The extension of the pandemic law indefinitely is insane, until November 2022, it is more like a suspicious one, and it is also discussed in a state of legislative emergency. Rather, it seems that the five coalitions have tasted power and want to enjoy it without their view of unnecessary restrictions by other authorities of the state, such as the Chamber of Deputies. Here they have a theoretical majority, but only in case of exemplary attendance. Unlike the members of the SPD who have excellent attendance at the House, except in cases of health problems or really urgent matters. The five-wheelers, however, are obviously not sure about the attendance of their Members, and it has not paid off once before in the negotiation of the construction law, and it was embarrassing in my opinion. She just doesn't go to work. [[20.30 hours]] On 23 March 2020, the Union of Towns and Municipalities took on this subject in the article The State of Legislative Emergency - what does it mean? Expressed the following: In exceptional circumstances, the state of legislative emergency aims to speed up the negotiation of government bills in a shortened negotiation. It can only be used if irreversible or difficult to repair damage to the company's essential interests or if it is necessary to prevent real significant damage to the state's assets. Simply and simply, when there is danger or danger we are already in and need to act quickly without unnecessary delay. But we are in exactly the opposite situation. The pandemic law itself, as presented by the Government of the Five Coalition, poses a real threat to civil rights and irreversible and difficult to remedy damage to the fundamental interests and rights of society. That is why it is absolutely nonsense, in my opinion, to continue to discuss such a fundamental legal standard, and in addition to that in a state of legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u109	Thank you, Mr Member, and now the duly signed Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská will appear. Please, madam, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u110	Mr President, honourable representatives of the Government, fellow Members, the state of legislative emergency, in which we should discuss the amendment to the so-called pandemic law, this is House Press No. 127, has been addressed in this hall in previous speeches and explained many times. However, I will repeat that a state of legislative emergency can only be declared in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage are significantly threatened. However, such an extraordinary situation did not occur. In recent days and weeks, there has been no natural disaster or other emergency that would disturb the operation of the state in a similar way. Government colleagues will argue that we are in the middle of a pandemic. Yes, we're in the middle of a pandemic, disease is high, and unfortunately, our loved ones, friends, friends, or colleagues are dying. Here I would like to express my involvement to all those who have lost someone close to us because of this epidemic. However, it is a state, a government that, in its proposal, prepares a very strong restriction on citizens' rights and freedoms and proposes restrictions on entrepreneurship. If the government claims that it has been put into temporal distress in the process of law-making, because the existing legal standard expires 28. 2., she created it exclusively by presenting the laws too late. Moreover, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Mr Vlastimil Válek has recently been made public that the government will cancel all measures relating to covid-19 to 1. The 4th of this year. I hope he didn't say it like April and make fun of all of us. Or maybe he left his back door open somewhere, and he was quick to force this amendment in a legislative emergency? In addition, a novel without any time limit. In some countries of the European Union, measures are already being released and repealed. If government Members really allow this law to be discussed in the context of a legislative emergency, why do government Members themselves propose amendments to amend this proposal? How is that possible? We have a new Ministry of Legislation here. So why can't the proposal be discussed in a completely standard legislative process? The social situation arising from the covid-19 epidemic in the spring of last year required an extraordinary public response, including extremely rapid legislative responses. Even then, however, the Reasonable Right Platform pointed out that, even in a state of legislative emergency, it is necessary for Members of Parliament and the public to have at least a minimum time to get to know the bills. For example, the Constitutional Court mentioned that an extraordinary instrument such as a legislative emergency cannot be used to limit the legislative procedure by a parliamentary majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position with the bill and uses all its options to prevent or delay its adoption. Or is the government coalition worried about the sharp criticism of the amendment to the pandemic law and possible amendments that could test its coherence in the committees of the Chamber of Deputies? In my opinion, the government has no legitimate legal reason for requesting and declaring a state of legislative emergency, and it is the opinion of the entire SPD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u111	Thank you, Madame. At present, I do not see anyone who would be enrolled in the debate. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Please, madam, your other five minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the concreteization of fundamental human rights and freedoms often overlaps with the issue of their limitations. Certain general rules apply to interference with fundamental rights. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms contains a number of provisions expressly allowing for restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. However, the condition is that this will only be done on the basis of the law and within its limits and only with respect to fundamental rights and freedoms. And the state of legislative emergency and the limitation of parliamentary debate by time limits is a restriction on political rights of a kind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u113	I'm sorry, but colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u114	Thank you. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and In this case, it is no longer sufficient merely to authorise the lower legislator's law, which is, for example, a government, but the restriction must be stated directly in the law and must comply with the conditions laid down in the Charter. The rule of preservation of the substance of fundamental law under Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 4 Charters. In applying the provisions on the limits of fundamental rights and freedoms, their substance and meaning must be investigated. Such restrictions shall not be used for purposes other than those for which they have been established. Mr President, I beg you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u115	Colleagues and colleagues, if you have a need to discuss, I will ask you to go to the lobby and make sure that you understand what Mrs Šafránková says. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u116	Thank you. It is clear from the above that all restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms must be proportionate and limited only to the extent strictly necessary, which is one of the main principles of the rule of law. As regards constitutional legal assumptions and the conditions of the so-called state of legislative emergency, the shortened legislative process, which, by its decision, the President of the House, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, laid down for the review of the amendment to the Pandemic Law, generally discussing the draft law or its amendment to the shortened act in the state of legislative emergency, constitutes a statutory exception to the proper legislative procedure, the justification of which is based not on the current form of the House of the political majority, but on the seriousness of the situation to which, in the Government's view, it is necessary to respond immediately by adopting the relevant law. Paragraph 99 (2) (a) is replaced by the following: By defining the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency, the Rules of Procedure of the House laid down, inter alia, the intensity of the gravity of those reasons. This situation is therefore conditional on the existence of exceptional circumstances and the intensity of its possible negative effect on one of the generally defined protected values of citizens' rights and freedoms, state security or property protection. This no longer applies in case of covid-19 disease at the current stage. In fact, an exceptional circumstance, even within the meaning of the Constitutional Court's finding, can only be regarded as a circumstance which is clearly out of the ordinary course of political processes within and outside, or may be a circumstance such as natural disasters. The justification for declaring a state of legislative emergency must then also be assessed with regard to the time of decision-making and also the scope of the information available at this time. [[20.40 hours]] It is also necessary to measure the intensity of the reasons for the state of legislative emergency in relation to the limitations of the constitutional principles concerned. It must thus be clear what specific consequences the government considers are threatening for the values defined in this provision, namely what justifies, for example, the conclusion on the threat of significant economic damage or the threat to fundamental rights and freedoms or the security of the State. This is completely absent in the case of the current government proposal. Moreover, these reasons must not be arbitrary, fictional and concrete. [[must be:]] The draft law proposed by the Government in the accelerated procedure must be capable of preventing the emergence or duration of the threat of public interest in question. None of this is fulfilled in the case of the amendment to the Pandemic Law, and declaring a state of legislative emergency is a mockery of the law and an absolute outrage. We shouldn't accept that at all. It is truly unbelievable how in recent days and weeks the government and the President of the House have trampled on the law and constitution to which they have made their vows and to which they are always verbally claiming to be the only defender of democracy and constitutionality in our country. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u117	Thank you, Madame. I don't see anybody or have a debate logged in at the moment. Since no one else is reporting, I will conclude the debate and call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] They're registering a check-out request, in which case, I'll check you out, and I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. I will wait until the number of Members and Members in the Chamber has settled, and then I will begin the vote. At present, we will vote - just for order - to assess whether there is a legislative emergency. I therefore, given that the Members are already in the Chamber, will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 4, registered 138 Members and Members, for proposal 81, against 20. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. And now, before we proceed, Prime Minister Radim Fiala reports with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is a pity, I thought we would convince you that the legislative emergency in this matter does not fall within one section of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, where we could apply legislative emergency to the pandemic law. We talked about it a long time, we explained it, we wanted us to at least...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u119	I apologize, Mr President, for entering into your speech. Colleagues and colleagues, I understand that it's been an advanced time, but I'm going to ask you to respect each other when someone's talking. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u120	Thank you, Mr President. To discuss at least this law in a normal legislative process, that is, during three readings. Unfortunately, unfortunately for the citizens of the Czech Republic, we failed. Since, of course, we need to consult on another strategy as we proceed, I am asking you to take a break at the SPD's meeting for one hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u121	Okay. The chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Prime Minister, the Government, colleagues, it is quite clear that, after many hours of discussing this standard, when the SPD Members here, in discussing whether or not there is a state of legislative emergency, have talked long enough about the law itself, or have sufficiently studied it, I am convinced that President Fiala's proposal bears clearly obstructive characteristics or features, and therefore I dare, in this matter, which is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, to ask for this break to be voted on and the House of Sovereigns has decided whether or not to take a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u123	I, my colleagues, will ask you for peace! And since this is a matter which, in view of the previous parliamentary term, is being handled differently, I am currently interrupting the meeting, I will ask the club presidents to come to me to agree on how we will deal with this situation, because I believe that continuity in the management of the meeting should continue and any changes should only be made on the basis of the agreement of the club presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u124	Colleagues and colleagues, following the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, will be the following procedure. I'm not gonna vote at the break, and the SPD club is gonna have a one-hour break at the club meeting, until 21.50. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] Then I will ask the club presidents to meet where the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies meets, and to 21.15 we will discuss further procedure within the Chamber of Deputies. [[Attention from the diaper: 22.15.]] At this point, the following procedure is proposed: When we left the meeting that was convened here, it was that the SPD requested an hour-long break, which means 21.50, and then the meeting of the Gremia meeting by 22.15 to agree on the next procedure. I'm interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u125	Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is 22.30 hours and we will continue the negotiations. First of all, I'd like to read my apologies. I would like to apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, on this day on account of a foreign trip. Furthermore, I have here an apology from Mrs Michaela Opltová, today between 22.15 and 24 hours for reasons of the family. And then there is the apology of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Pavel Blažek, from today's meeting from 21:00 for business reasons until the end of the meeting time. At this point, I would say that we have dealt with and confirmed that the state of legislative emergency is continuing. And so we will now proceed to the proposal for the 8th meeting, as stated on the invitation, and I will open any speeches on the draft agenda at the moment. With the priority right to the agenda, I have already been notified by the chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura. I have here a question from the Minister of Finance, the same question I had today for legislation: because we are acting in a state of legislative emergency, the programme can complement itself in any way. So, Prime Minister, you have the floor. It was also an explanation for other Members. I'm sure as the chairman of the meeting, we've all checked the procedure. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, the government coalition, which is ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates, rejected our opposition window on Thursday. So we're gonna open it up here again. So, of course, we will propose points to change the agenda of this meeting and, of course, all of our Members, all of us, 20 of us, will comment on it, because we all have proposals for points and not just one. And it needs to be said, first of all, I would like to disprove here, in the media I have heard some lies here by some government MPs that we, as the SPD, were against the opposition window on Thursday. So you first rejected our bills on Thursday morning. We have proposed to include three proposals in the opposition window. So you rejected them for us first, and then logically we voted against the opposition window when we didn't have any of our proposals. So we should stop this comedy. Especially with these fantasies. I would, of course, just remind you of what three proposals we have proposed. Firstly, we proposed for Thursday and today the proposal will be repeated by colleagues from the SPD, my fellow Members, we wanted to include on Thursday - I am still talking about what we wanted to include on Thursday. Then my colleagues here are going to put this proposal on this program, and they're going to give it a good reason, of course. Then we would like to include the Act on the referendum and then we would like to include the Act on taxation of non-taxed profits by multinational corporations from the Czech Republic. And then we wanted to include a proposal, our bill, called My House, my castle, to increase the possibility of self-defense for decent citizens who are being ambushed at home. But that will be justified by our Members, and they will propose this on today's agenda. I would like to point out for myself, and here I will, in one sentence, stick to the undemocratic nature of the five-calice, and more will be explained by our Member Jan Hrnčíř. Because we are the last of the two countries in the EU that do not have a referendum law. Us and Cyprus. Then let's just make it clear how you're acting. Now, let's go to my draft points. So, first of all, I propose the first point called the Government to enforce a pandemic law that is unconstitutional and introduces a covido dictatorship. So that's the name of my point. I'm gonna say it again. I'd like to discuss it, this point. Because you're limiting the debate here, and I think it needs to be discussed separately, this point, quite individually. So I propose a point that the Government proposes a pandemic law that is unconstitutional and introduces a covido dictatorship. That's the name of the point so everyone can hear it, so that the title is clear, so that we know what we want to discuss here. And, of course, if we approve that point, then, of course, 20 Members will discuss us, and we will explain it here again and again. But you don't act democratically, of course, and you're afraid to discuss it, you're afraid you don't have arguments. That's why I expect you to refuse us. That you have no arguments. And that goes with today's meeting that we are calling you here to argue, argue constitutional judgments, legal opinions, and everyone from the government coalition basically sits down like rocks and silences. So now I'd like to justify this proposal. The House President Markéta Pekarová, Adamová of TOP 09, convened today, in a state of legislative emergency, a meeting of the House to discuss the amendment to the so-called pandemic law, which is due to expire at the end of February. The Pandemic Law of the SPD has been criticizing the SPD from the very beginning and we also consider this government presented as another legislative paskvil. It is basically a codification of the emergency situation, but it is part of the measures under the Constitutional Security Act, the emergency situation which citizens are restricted to their rights, and therefore this constitutional law cannot be replaced in quotation marks by an ordinary implementing law, in this case a pandemic law. I think it really needs to be discussed over and over again here, because the government really, you know, your totalitarian manners, when you basically tilt into that emergency state, you tilt those emergency conditions, you translate 95 percent into that so-called pandemic law. So you want to limit citizens to their constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms. And as we've already announced, the SPD MP will do its utmost again not to approve the amendment here. The pandemic law, your government pandemic law, limits fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of business. It is totally unacceptable for us to continue after 28 February 2022 The Ministry of Health had the opportunity to regulate pubs, establishments, primary and secondary schools at its own discretion and other areas of human life and rights guaranteed by the Constitution. By the way, it's probably written in the Constitution, specifically in the Charter of Rights and Freedoms...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u127	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt and ask all Members to remain calm in the Chamber. And if there's anything you need to discuss, please go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u128	Thank you. So I would just remind you that the Czech Constitution, namely the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, includes the right to entrepreneurship, the right to private and social life, as well as the right to education. Moreover, according to your government amendment, it is also intended to expand the circuit of equipment that the government can limit. Just plainly that the Minister of Health, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior will show, sure, if then the government will agree to do it again, anyway, you just want to do restrictions and restrictions and determine how people should live, even though they are constitutionally guaranteed rights, and you want to do it by normal law, here to limit people. This is simply unacceptable. Again, since there is no emergency situation and there are no emergency conditions, there is a public health law, a crisis law, so, of course, legislation of the Czech Republic today can take care of the health of our citizens. According to the proposal of the government amendment, measures can even be re-issued not only by the Ministry of Health, but also by the Ministry of Defence and Interior. In addition, it will be possible to lay down a general emergency measure for all people who have a positive antigen test or are returning from a risky area from abroad, and the risk area of the proposal is not even specified. This means, de facto, that it is necessary to use SMS to target individuals with forceful restrictions on freedom, such as the obligation to live separately from others. This is unbelievable. This is unbelievable. And we would like to discuss this here to finally have the government Members explain to us, especially the Minister of Health, Mr Válek, and other things that he intends to do. The Minister was laughed at by a number of debaters, I believe it was News or something that said Okamura was delaying compensation. And they laughed at him on purpose that if there were no restrictive measures, there was no need for compensation. So the Minister has paid back everything here, and the citizens have justifiably laughed at him for all the nonsense he's saying again. The Minister's mind is full of only the limitations, and to limit people, to limit, to limit, to limit that his expression has completely lost any logic. It's just that he's wrapped up in his bubble, just to limit, limit, limit, while it's clear that if there's no limit, there's no need for compensation. This is finally the return to normal life that we lived two years ago. It's unbelievable how all this got mixed up. Chaos to chaos, confusion to confusion! You promised, you lied to the voters, you said how clear everything would be. When you ask citizens on the street, they don't know what the measures are, what you're proposing. That means, that's the situation today. So even the Minister is getting involved in his own statements, and he's even contradicting himself. What compensation if the measures aren't simple anymore. This is unbelievable. So that's nonsense, even. And I am glad that the citizens have seen it and have also made it clear to the Minister in the debate that he should simply stop talking nonsense. Next I wanted to say... Well, of course, these proposals for restrictions, severe restrictions on citizens' freedom, such as the obligation to live apart from other people, well, that's totally unacceptable. For example, there is no legal regulation on the obligation to hold a mobile phone. No one has an obligation to carry a mobile phone and read SMS messages from unknown numbers all the time, which is not just about our seniors. And of course, we have much more reservations about the pandemic law, but I have already explained this in my previous two performances in about four hours, and of course we will continue to explain. So according to the SPD, in the case of the adoption of the pandemic law, it is only an otherwise named emergency situation, and that is unacceptable for us. Other countries are thinking about dislodgement, thinking about the return of normal life, but the Czech government of Petr Fiala is thinking about how to limit people even more. Well, that's crazy. That's completely insane. So, in short, the five-calice government wants to introduce a covidate dictatorship by law, the pandemic law. That's what I'd call it. I don't think the other name deserves it anymore. The Fialův Government has argued that it will proceed differently from the Babišův government in the case of a pandemic, but I think the citizens are already seeing it, and we are watching the debate today and on the social networks that this new government is not coming with anything new. It is unable to manage the state at a time of crisis by existing legislation, such as the Public Health Act or the Crisis Act. So I would reiterate that the first point I propose is a point called, and I propose it as the first point, I propose it as the first point at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I repeat the title that the Government's proposal for a pandemic law, which is unconstitutional and introduces a covido dictatorship. That, I think, is the name that fully describes the government coalition proposal. Now I'd like to propose a second point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u129	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Could you tell me the name of that point one more time?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u130	Yes, I'd be happy to tell you. I'd be happy to repeat it. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u131	I have to say, the way I marked it, it's always been different. I have an indication: the government enforces a law that is unconstitutional...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u132	No, no, no. The title of this point is: Government pandemic law, which is unconstitutional and introduces a covido dictatorship. But I'm willing to repeat it to you many more times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u133	There's no need, you really said that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u134	No, no, I mean it in a good way, because...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u135	You said it, I'm very careful about all this, and you've said it differently now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u136	I wasn't thinking about you right now, Madam Vice-President, by your means, I meant that I'd be happy to repeat it to the audience, because it's necessary for them to instill the name of that point. Of course, I know you've already noted. It's not up to you. On the contrary, I have, I'm quite glad to point it out. On the contrary, thank you for the question. That's how I'd put it. So, of course, on the other points, I'd like to repeat it to you in a very precise manner. Because the second draft of the point I have has so much to do with the SPD's enforcement, the SPD is in favour of the immediate abolition of outright antiepidemic measures related to covid-19 disease. And we are promoting the cessation of discrimination without vaccination. So here I would like to stress why we are promoting this. I'll give you the name of that point right after that. Massive testing in schools and companies is currently unwarranted, completely pointless and costs us all 3 billion crowns a month. Some countries such as Ireland, Spain, the United Kingdom are releasing anti-epidemic measures regardless of the spread of omicrons, and in our country, the Fialův government still hasn't agreed to the promised release. Well, the businessmen still didn't get compensation for the loss of profit. We can't just get information from government officials when it's going to be, when they're going to make those promises. We're getting desperate calls from businessmen, businessmen, and everyone around here is calling us, so what's going to happen is that the Ministry isn't responding, that the Ministry isn't explaining anything to them. We even intersected on this Thursday, and you can't get anything out of the government. They don't communicate, they don't communicate, they don't communicate, they don't communicate. It's no secret that it's already spreading across the media, that government representatives don't even want to go on TV. Like when I go on TV, the media have a hard time getting an opponent against me because they're afraid of the MPs. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Well, yes. Mrs Pekarová directly said after the show with me, and she said it publicly in front of many witnesses that she didn't want to go against Okamur anymore, because she just doesn't have any arguments. So you're laughing, but I'm telling you straight up here. Those of you laughing, so I'm inviting you to live on the media, hopefully, well, we can laugh, and come on. Come on. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] It's okay, I don't have problems. [[Laughter.]] I don't have a problem. I'm not saying come out or anything. I'm talking about a democratic duel of arguments. I don't have a problem with that, but that's what the media is complaining about you. I'm just telling you, I don't know why you're afraid, a lot of your MPs, and I'm just saying, basically, all the media have trouble getting respondents because the information sounds like you're scared. [[2.50 hours]] That means... well, there's 107 of you, there's no 108 of you, there's 107 of you, because like I said, Mr. Farský's not here. He promised to resign. So not 108, but 107. But it's not just about me. They're gonna get somebody eventually, but I'm saying in general what's going on, what we're hearing in the media, I'm not gonna name it specifically, but I've been hearing it for a really long time now that the government MPs are afraid to walk, or they don't want to walk, I don't know if they're scared, but of course what to say about that, when somebody asks you what you're proposing to deal with expensiveness, so obviously there's nothing left to say, right? Of course, it's a tough debate. On the contrary, I'd like to ask what you're suggesting, since someone's laughing here, we're interested in what you're suggesting, which I'm sure we'd like to hear here, finally what you're suggesting. And especially when it's gonna be, when you're gonna figure out the price. When are you gonna figure this out? When? That's what the citizens are asking. You promised a solution. So these anonymous laughter from the bench somewhere when no one sees you, that's nice, but you should really tell the public. There. So businessmen still didn't get compensation for lost profits. They had to close because of the Christmas markets, and so far they haven't gotten anything, even though the ban came within a few hours. Anyway, there are gastronomic businesses that had to close at 22 o'clock. The state is threatened with further lawsuits, and Petr Fiala's government is not taking action. It is clear that the real goal of testing is the longest possible delay in income from the so-called covid business and continued terror towards Czech citizens, which are mainly burdened by employers and teachers, but also by other citizens, basically the majority. We call on the government to stop pushing for totalitarian pandemic law to end discrimination against the unscathed, to finally start dealing with the enormous expensiveness of everything around us and to resolve the things that really burn citizens. So I'd call that point a suggestion for... Like this, we would like to discuss Proposals to resolve the price increase in the Czech Republic. Proposals to resolve the price increase in the Czech Republic. This means that when the government coalition rejects this point or vetoes it, of course it means that you don't have any suggestions, of course, because no one heard them on TV when the media asked you, they also don't hear any of your solutions. Citizens get bills every month, you promised solutions, we all heard that Prime Minister Petr Fiala promised to present a solution last week in December. We've got February here, and there's no solution. And even Prime Minister Fiala demonstrated a fatal illusion when he said on TV, a month ago, that he said the Czech Presidency of the European Union would solve the price increase. Well, I'm curious. For A, he said that citizens should wait at least a year, because, of course, the Presidency is six months. Second of all, I'm gonna remind you of this place, and we're gonna figure out how it's gonna work out, if that's gonna work it out. I am telling you that it will not, because this government would have to stop being servile towards Brussels and the European Union and do patriotic politics in the interests of Czech citizens, not foreign interests. So we're gonna wait here, and I'm saying it today - you said you'd figure it out under the EU Presidency, so we're gonna ask. Rather, it is frightening that the Prime Minister may at all be so politically naive and thus attempt to hang his cries on someone's nose that it will solve some Presidency. Well, let's see. I'm curious. So to go to the bill, the government's proposals... or proposals to deal with the expensive. That's what we're here to discuss, that's my draft point number 2. And, as I'm saying, when the government coalition rejects it here to discuss it, it logically doesn't have any suggestions, because if it doesn't, of course, it can't discuss it. We have the proposals, I have presented them many times, and I have noticed that colleagues from the other opposition party also have a number of proposals and would certainly also like to discuss them. But we haven't heard any from the government that would help most people in the Czech Republic. There's no such proposal here. And citizens can't wait any longer. Because you made 18 out of 15 ministers, so as I was saying, they're sitting here in two rows, not even in those historic benches anymore, because even our ancestors didn't expect such a government to come here. As I was saying, for those three newly created ministers who weren't here before, before they didn't exist in the previous government, you created 70 new jobs, although we all remember that you said that there would be no new officials for these three ministers. So it was a total lie on the air. And even those 70 new servicemen, or service workers for these three new ministers, will cost over 40 million crowns a year. That's your savings. Now I had to laugh. The TV came to see me, I don't know, it's been two days, three days, that Mrs Pekarová Adamová, president of the House, said she wanted to make savings here. Well, that's what we're for, we agree to the savings. But she wants to make savings? You, on the other hand, have created one extra Vice-President of the House for the pirát, who have four MPs, and that one is worth about 20 million for the term of office. Just like it's totally unbelievable. She thinks we're stupid here or something? Or that we don't remember? Or that we can't count? This is unbelievable! This is unbelievable! I'm more surprised somebody's gonna come running around in those public statements. I can't believe this! If he thinks we're some kindergarten or something, he just needs to high-five something and that hahaha. I'm sure you didn't! We will always argue democratically, we will do our opposition work democratically in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. So that's the point number two that I think needs to be really discussed, and I'm wondering if the government will agree to that. Again, that would mean they have a solution. If they refuse, the point, they have no solution. I think it's obvious you're going to reject it, because you really don't have the solutions. I would like to propose this point as a second one. Second item on the agenda of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Then I would like to propose a third point. All I'm saying is that the points I'm going to propose, I'm going to have to do the math, but it's going to be between five and ten, so of course I'm going to explain everything. And the third point I would like to propose is that the government coalition behaves undemocratically and blocks the negotiation of our bills that would help people. The House of Votes of Members of the SPOL coalition, which is the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 and Pirates and STAN, refused to discuss in the so-called opposition window on Thursday the drafts of three laws from the SPD pen, namely the Act on the referendum, a law entitled My House, my Castle, strengthening the security of citizens, as well as the Act on the taxation of multinational corporations operating in our territory, which take the form of profits and dividends each year from our country in the form of a hundred billion-dollar amount before tax, without any conditions such as investing at least one CZK of their billion-dollar profits back in the Czech Republic. The government coalition thus continues to demonstrate that it is pro-brussels and anti-democracy, because its Members repeatedly refuse to include our bills to the citizens of the Czech Republic at the meeting of the House, whose discussions were political agreements within the framework of the Grémia of the existing House. So I think that there is an optimal point here called the Government violates the House's political agreements, because it needs to be named as it violates - or government MPs. So I would like to give the title of a point to the Government Members - a debate on violations of the House's political agreements. So discussing violations of political agreements in the House by government MPs. I think it has to be said in that title that you can't just make a deal with anyone, but you're even breaking deals, which is really very bad when we make a deal and you break it. It was said that there would be an opposition window. And then, when we wanted to include these three bills that I was talking about, you voted against inclusion. [[23.00 hours]] I'm used to political competition as a person. It's okay. I'm used to hard arguments. It must be democratic. It's gotta be polite. There's no physical assault at all. I absolutely have to say no. Or some kind of violence. That's understandable. That's not what I'm talking about. But what should always remain is that there is at least an elementary political culture here. Not like a moment ago, Mr. President of the Club, one of your two government leaders, Mr. Marek Výborný of KDU-ČSL, who even tried to vote on whether the SPD could take a break. So that's... Well, that's... Well, that's really undemocratic, totalitarian manners I've never seen before. How he's running out of nerves. How you run out of nerve to some of you. You guys are just losing control of this whole democratic thing. Luckily, some of you quickly realized that again. 'Cause that hour could be a hundred hours, too, right? But that would be the time for you. Of course, that would cost you pretty democratically, like this... I don't know what you'd try against us here. So please don't even try these things again. Don't try! Don't try to be so total. Enough with your totalitarian pandemic law. But to have a member of the SPD who voted for more than half a million people repeatedly so that someone would touch Parliament's customs and our rights... So, really stop it, the totalitarian manners. And I think our chairman of the Radim Fiala House of Deputies said to you that this is definitely not how you're doing it. Definitely not like that. I hope it was... On the other hand, I am glad that this has become clear in the first four months of the House so that we do not have to discuss your undemocratic practices here. I hope we won't deal with you in this way again. So that's point three I was talking about. Now here's my point four. The government coalition - I will just mention it - the government coalition is unable to discuss its own key laws, such as the State Budget Act. The government doesn't deal with expensive people and other people's problems. Since the first meeting of the House - I will remind you that the elections were held in October, so it is already a lot of time, you already have a majority of more than a quarter of a year, almost half a year you will have a majority in a few moments - since the first establishing meeting of the House in the current parliamentary term is now on the agenda for the ninth meeting and only 16 points have been discussed at the current meetings from 83 points submitted by the government coalition. Petr Fiala's government still hasn't discussed it, it hasn't filed a law of the year in the House, the State Budget Act of 2022, and the country is still in the budgetary commission, so most ministries cannot make payments for potential investments and purchases, because they can only draw one twelfth of last month's budget each month. This is totally unacceptable to the SPD. And I would actually stop by that point. Because here are a number of MPs for your coalition of new ones who haven't been here, but I'll remind you that you're in the media, your five-calices, basically for a year you've been promising, a year since last winter, you've promised that you're ready to rule both programming and personnel. And basically, you lied to the voters about how you got everything ready. Well, you don't have anything ready, it turns out. We have February, and you are not even able to present the State Budget Act, a key law according to which the whole Czech Republic is funded, from seniors, disabled people, schools, families with children, students, just everything possible, let it be discounts on students and so on. So you guys aren't even done. And it's February. That means you don't have anything ready. You actually just wanted to rule! And you spend all your energy here for almost four months, for A, you've added three seats of ministers, then B, you've added one seat of Vice-President of the House for Pirates, for pirátka Olga Richterová, while the pirát have only four MPs. Then you canceled discounts on fare, respectively. reduced, so you stole money from students and seniors, while costs increase, and you did not offer an alternative. So you're the first to take out those low-money groups. What you've done next is stealing the promised money from firefighters, policemen, social services workers, workers of the labour offices, and so on, which you've also done extra work on, as well as financial officials. And you touched the firemen, the police, the soldiers. You've also touched the money. You've reduced their promised money. So that's what you did. You had the energy for that. Then you had the energy to not discuss the SPD law to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire term. Because of you, politicians' salaries have increased since 1. By 6 percent this year. And then you didn't come in January until after hours, but you only suggested freezing it for 11 months, which means less than a year. And you rejected the SPD proposal by voting, our amendment. We put it there to freeze for the entire term. That means you've added the money yourself. And I'm still looking for what you brought positive for the citizens, actually. And right here today's meeting is that as your priority, priority since the beginning of your entire reign, you have priority only two laws - the pandemic law and the introduction of correspondence elections. Those are your priorities. Not one priority is that people should have more money, security, or justice. I've been in these TV debates, I've said here before, in the past. And what your party leaders promised - Jurečka, Prime Minister Fiala today, Mr. Rakušan - you promised that you were ready to have everything done. There's nothing here. Nothing. And since you've chosen correspondence or pandemic law to be your priorities, and you've blocked all the other laws, there's no more laws being discussed here because of you. Not the SPD. You have most of it. You have most of it! That's what I heard somewhere desperately screaming, crying about the SPD not being discussed. So if you are unable to negotiate with 107 Members here because of the 20 Members, then resign and go if you are so incompetent. If you can't make a deal. There's no other answer to that. There's no other answer to that. If you're crying, you're in trouble, you're in trouble, you're not competent to rule. That's easy. Or you can't make a deal about anything. You can't act. You're not politicians. And a politician should be able to make a deal. Not a confrontation at all costs. We're happy for you. More and more crying about the SPD and the opposition. Of course, that just shows the incompetence. Of course, that's clear. So it's okay. Crying government. Or whiny. That's a really great image. And I'm saying again, just because you can't act. You don't negotiate here. But we're not asking you. We don't have problems. If you're in trouble, come up with something. But we're not asking for anything. We have plenty of time. We have plenty of time. We're doing our opposition work. And if you have any problems? You're whining in the media, you're crying. Well, I guess you're in some kind of trouble. But we're minding our own business. Well, that all depends on you. You're the government. You have most of it. So we're, we're cool here. [[unintelligible]] [[23.10 hours]] So, of course, this government does not demonstrate the ability to pass laws on time for people, such as dealing with draconian energy increases, increasing food prices, controlling inflation, proposing compensation for people and businessmen affected by government chaotic measures due to covid-19 disease. Members of the government coalition are subsequently unable to enforce and approve these proposals in the House. This government is not a government of experts, so it should resign and end. That means, I would propose a point called Inability of the Government to enforce beneficial laws for people. That's what I think is the optimal name. The government's inability to enforce beneficial laws for people. And I think I'd like to propose it as point number 4 of today's agenda, because we just need to deal with this because people are texting us: when does the government solve energy and food and everything else? When? And still, although I ask Petr Fiala, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, and other ministers, I still ask when and still do not hear the answer. Citizens can't hear either. So I'm asking when, because you said you'd rule, that you have 108, so it's your full responsibility. And if you don't have a solution and you don't feel up to it, the only solution is demise, because why should people pay you dearly if you don't have a solution? That's a logical thing to do. So I'm still waiting here for the subject. So I'm waiting for you to finally say, even the citizens are telling us when the government is going to solve the auction because it promised to solve it. Not that he's gonna propose a plan. You didn't design the plan either. But the question is, when will it be resolved? And we all expect it. So that's point four. And, of course, that means, just like I said here a moment ago, that if you reject this point or turn it in, that means you don't have a solution. It's understandable. So then I have another point here, and I've already suggested that last time, but I still don't hear the answer, and that's why the government is promoting Miroslav Kalousek to the Board of Directors of the VZP. Because the government coalition of ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates sends Miroslav Kalousek to the Board of Directors of VZP. It's an organization with hundreds of billion-dollar budgets, and you're sending Miroslav Kalousek. And I'd like to discuss it here. Miroslav Kalousek to VZP. You lied before the election again. You said you were the new wind, bringing new wind and change. Change, that was the word. So Mr. Kalousek is a change? Is that a change? I would like to ask Members in the debate whether Mr Kalousek is a change. Miroslav Kalousek. Because you had a billboard that you changed. And I want to ask the Members, the governments, to just answer yes-no, that's enough. Is that a change? Is that a change, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek in VZP? And basically, the pirát agree. Of course, because if they don't agree, they'll resign if they don't mind. If it bothers them so much, they'll end their presence in the government. Well, they don't really mind that much, do they, so they quietly agree with it, always some oral declaration and so on. So it's not really a problem for them, for the pirát, Miroslav Kalousek in VZP. Of course, this is a problem for us and our voters. So I think we need to discuss a point called The Government is sending Miroslav Kalousek to the Board of Directors of the VZP. And discussing this. So that's what we really need to say. And I think that - I have already seen some reasons in the media for defending this in the government Members - that the reasons are needed for the government MPs and Prime Minister Fiala and others to repeat it here on a microphone to hear as many people as possible, the reasons why you're sending Miroslav Kalousek into the VZP leadership. I think we need to hear it all the time. And you'll hear it all the time, for four years, of course, you won't hide from it, you won't hide from it, we'll remind you all the time. So that's the information that, of course, our voters are interested in, so we're going to remind you of that. So that's point five. Then I have point number six here, and it's an item on the subject of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of STAN, and we're going to give it... That's not the name now, so I want to explain it, because the Interior Minister hasn't explained Vít Rakušan yet, and I've already asked you repeatedly, and you're still denying the point of who the end owners of the companies connected to the Cyprus tax havens that sponsored the Pirates and STAN coalition campaign. And the Home Secretary Vít Rakušan is stubbornly silent. He doesn't want to say it, and he's trying to sweep it under the rug by returning part of the money to the STAN movement. But that doesn't solve the problem of who's funding them. Because, of course, they're already legally committed to those people, whether they've returned or not, because they've already given them the gift. So once again, I think it is necessary to open up a point called Strange funding of the STAN movement from tax havens in Cyprus. Strange financing of the STAN movement from tax havens in Cyprus. And once again, we just want two short answers: who are the end owners of those companies that funded the STAN and Pirates campaign, and the second question is, what does the money come from, what activities, because according to this, it is very important to know whose interests the STAN will possibly defend in the government. That's logical. And what's interesting is that this government coalition that played at it and lied to the voters that it was the new wind and that they wanted to change, so they don't want to say at all costs, the first vice prime minister, the chairman of the STAN and the Home Secretary who financed the campaign for them. They don't want to say it at any cost. So, of course, it is necessary, and we will ask that question again and again, especially in the context that the SPD movement is already being avenged by the Interior Minister and Chairman STAN Rakušan. He is already taking revenge on us because just as Jan Hamáček of ČSSD did, so the Interior Minister Rakušan began to abuse the Ministry of the Interior in a political struggle to manipulate public opinion, thereby weakening political competition because he called the SPD disinformers in connection with the fact that we reject the government, specifically Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová of the ODS and Minister Lipavský of the Pirates, to drag us into the war in Ukraine. So when we disagree with the war and with someone dragging us into the war in Ukraine, they disinformationally labeled that perhaps the SPD was defending Russia or something pro-Russian. You have absolutely nothing to do with Russia. Nobody's financing us from Russia, we have nothing in common with Russia, I'm not seeing anyone from Russia or Radim Fiala, nobody else, so these lies that you're trying to tell here repeatedly because you desperately have no arguments, so, of course, these repeated lies, they don't work anymore. So when someone doesn't want war, and the SPD promotes a policy of dialogue, not confrontation, and of course, mutually beneficial cooperation, no servility, so when someone hides that we are against war and do not want war, we want peace, so that someone is pro-Russian. So vice versa, the disinformer is the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. So that would then be pro-Russian and pro-Kremelian Germany, which refuses to send weapons to Ukraine and builds a Nord Stream pipeline with them. Germany has built the most expensive energy project to ensure its energy security and self-sufficiency. But that's all I'm saying. [[23.20 hours]] This means that we have absolutely nothing to do with it, nor with Russia, nor are we pro-Russian, but we are a national movement and our only concern is the Czech Republic. And I admit that we want to have good, mutually beneficial and balanced relations with all the countries of the world as much as possible. But of course, if anyone wants to dictate something to us, something to do with us, we certainly can't be friends with him in quotes, that's for sure. Service isn't appropriate. We are the patriotic movement. We are not servile to Brussels at the expense of Czech citizens, nor will we ever be servile to Russia, nor to Washington, nor to China, nor do I know who is making all this up. So that's what it takes, so I'd like to call on Minister Vít Rakušan to stop using the Ministry. When he himself has problems and he has butter on his head and he has problems with financing, which they have not yet clarified, then of course the piárists have advised him: Deflect attention! Get your attention on something else. The best defense is the attack, they told him. So he starts lying, making up stories, gossiping, but it's desperate. And we're gonna keep asking, "Who's the end owner of those companies that funded the STAN campaign?" Firms connected to a tax haven in Cyprus? And what's the money made of? And of course he is, because he's obviously a vengeful man and he's taking advantage of the Ministry, so he's going to be soothing us, SPD. It's gonna be like it was with Secretary Hamáček. He's always slandering the SPD, molesting the Ministry. Well, in his case, he's not here anymore, so I won't comment on it anymore. And of course, so that's this point. And by the way, I was in Russia last night for one night in 1992, transiting to Sheremetěvo airport on my way to see Japanese grandmother. Which 1992 is 30 years old. It was one night, and it was at some hotel somewhere near the airport last night. That's really ridiculous, these desperate arguments of desperate people. So, let's move on. Item seven. Because 6 was the stan here. So the item number 7 I would like to propose is the issue of Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš. He's still quiet here, too, and he's slashed like a stump sitting here. He won't answer. However, let him finally answer that the pirate code that they promised citizens before the elections is that they must not accumulate office in government and MPs. That's what the Pirate Party's leadership was discussing. There were even some people on the Pirate Party's leadership who were detaching from it. Even at the Vice-President's level, I guess. And Ivan Bartoš cheated the voters, and he has three functions at once. He's a Member, a Deputy Prime Minister, and then he's a Minister for Regional Development. And at the same time, it accumulates functions contrary to the pirát Code. And we wouldn't have put it here if he hadn't made a public promise. He made a public promise. After all, there are a number of Members who are mayors and MPs. But they didn't promise you before the election, maybe somebody did, maybe not, but here we recorded it with Mr. Bartoš, because the ostensibly here pesced others and played the theater on Mr. Clean, in quotes, but so did Mr. Rakušan, it's a really rolling coalition. And I have to say, that's the problem, that he was making a public promise here, and he was breasting himself that they wouldn't accumulate functions. So here are a number of mayors and MPs that you are also mayors and MPs. But you are, or at least I didn't promise people, we can talk about whether it's right or not, this law has already been here, whether it's wage accumulation or not, it's been humiliated somehow, I think it's right not to get paid completely. [[unintelligible]] Well, it went down, so I guess it's just part of it. But at least you didn't promise it publicly here. At least I didn't notice, if I'm a MP, I'll take the mayor down. But Ivan Bartoš promised. Ivan Bartoš, published before the election, tricked the voters that they wouldn't, that the pirát wouldn't, if he did, accumulate government and parliament. That's the moment. That he lied. So I think we need to discuss this here and answer to the citizens, and that's, that's the point we would call kumulace as Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš in violation of the pirate code. So the title will be Cumulation of Pirates Chairman Ivan Bartoš in violation of the pirate code. So I would like to add, but I know it's long, so I won't bother the Vice-President, contrary to the publicly promised public code of conduct, of course. But I'm just adding that to the mic. So that's point seven. Of course, I have some other points prepared here, but they will be presented gradually by our SPD MEPs. So I suggested seven points for myself as a change in the agenda of the meeting, and I will, of course, look at the evidence I have on my desk, if I haven't forgotten any point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u137	Yes, thank you, Mr President. If I could just ask for a list of your points, or just if you would, I've recorded all the points, but only if we could check them so that our colleagues can read them correctly. And now, with priority rights to the agenda, President Radim Fiala will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u138	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I have two points that I would like to propose on the agenda of this meeting. First of all, it's a law that changes Law No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code. And I would characterize it with such a nickname, here's the proposal: first the debtor pays the principal, and then the interest. There. Paragraph 1932 provides that, in the case of the performance of a cash debt, the performance is to be counted first on its accessories and only then on the principal. In other words, the first one pays off everything other than the debt. You pay interest, lawyers, executives, everything, and that's your last debt. Although the first paragraph states that the debtor may exercise a different will in the performance, the different order of performance must be explicitly expressed, for example, the debtor may declare that he is first carrying out the principal and, moreover, subject to the consent of the creditor. It is necessary to meet two conditions in a cumulative manner, namely to show a will in the form of active conduct of the debtor and at the same time to agree with the creditor. In paragraph 2, a slightly different procedure shall be adapted. If the debtor is the consumer, namely by netting the transactions first at the costs already determined, then at the principal of the claim, then at interest and finally at interest on late payments. In domestic law, there is also a different procedure from that provided for in the Civil Code, namely the provision of the insolvency law, which provides that the performance provided is first counted on the principal of the debt and only then on interest and debt costs. The above philosophy is also based on the proposal submitted. [[23.30 hours]] And now I will actually explain the necessity of such proposed legislation and justify the main principle of why we are proposing such legislation. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to change the order in which the debt to the principal, the costs already determined, interest on late payments, interest against the current one, will be borne by the debtor to a disadvantageous order. Costs already determined, interest on late payments, interest and finally principal. The principle of the proposal is that it will not be necessary for the debtor to make any statement as to what part of the debt he is fulfilling and will preferably meet on the principal, so the debt itself will be repaid, thereby reducing the interest-bearing part of the debt, while only the costs already determined would be charged to him in relation to the accessories. Interest or interest on late payments would not be recovered. Nor would the creditor's consent be required to change the order in which he would pay the debt. The proposal strengthens the position of the debtor in the context of the obligation so that, even without the will and consent of the creditor, he can preferably fulfil the basis of the debt - the principal, which means that when the principal is repaid, further and further interest and interest on interest, or interest on late payments, no longer arise. The proposal accentuates the idea of strengthening the debtor's position regardless of whether they are consumers. The specific arrangements for consumers in the paragraph itself would then continue to be irrelevant. First, the principle that debt is included in the principal will strengthen the position of all debtors in the field of non-standard debt financing, which is based on non-market, sometimes loan-making interest fixing. Unfortunately, despite several attempts by the SPD movement in the Czech Republic, we do not have the interest ceiling and there may also be interest in hundreds in the short term, perhaps even thousands of percent, because we have not been able to stop it because the coalition was against it, and I am convinced that they were against it thanks to the usury lobby, which is here the Czech Republic roaming from west to east and back. As one of Europe's few countries, we do not have interest ceilings and we do not have a defined interest rate. We don't have a defined interest rate, we don't know what percentage of interest is already weird and what isn't. And I think it's a big shame and that we should fix it as soon as possible. First, the principle that debt is included in the principal will strengthen the position of all debtors in the field of non-standard debt financing, which is based on non-market, sometimes loan-making interest fixing. Debtors get into debt spirals that are hard to break out of. In the end, the State which bears the cost of falling into the debt trap and the removal from it, the costs of the judicial and insolvency proceedings of the State aid scheme in the form of a contribution, the addition or acquisition of a new employment of a person who gets into financial troubles, is liable to be paid for the recovery of the debt. The new adjustment could mitigate the effects of non-standard behaviour and contractual conditions unilaterally advantageous only for creditors. That's right. What good will it do us if we have an ever-increasing number of debtors who are unable to repay themselves, because interest will still run for them, they will pay the principal to the end, and, of course, they will not pay, they will not earn, they will not pay taxes, they will not contribute to any system, neither social nor health, and we will end up paying them social benefits? I am convinced that this is not good for the Czech state budget or for all of us and that this needs to be changed. It should be stressed that the proposal cannot cause problems in normal economic life and will not have a negative impact on different contractual types, such as carry-over loans in construction savings, reverse mortgages or other, mostly banking products. This is because the provision of the Civil Code in question leaves the parties free to exclude its application. Moreover, in the case of the contracts cited, the order of netting is set in the vast majority of cases, if not always, by the financial institutions themselves - banks and construction savings banks - in commercial conditions that can often change unilaterally themselves. The risk of a negative impact on the economic or economic area is therefore minimal and negligible, since a sufficient period of time is set to take effect when the dossier may be amended. Disabling further interest rates, so-called interest rates, is an incredible thing. If the debtor has paid the principal, it is an institute that effectively prevents usury practices. The economic essence of lending is to provide funds to the persons in need for a specified period of time so as to return them to creditors after the end of their need. The principle is for the creditor to return the amount he has provided to the debtor and to compensate for the loss by being unable to have the funds, for which interest is used. The increase in debt in the form of interest rates is synonymous with usury practices that are to be defended more effectively. The proposal shall not include a transitional provision from when the different order of netting is applied because, in accordance with the legislative rules, the new procedure will apply to all the means of performance to which the debtor is entitled after the date of entry into force of this amendment. The period of six months for its effectiveness shall be sufficient for the entities to adapt their internal mechanisms or contractual documentation to the new netting option. Regardless of the new regulation, the principle remains in force that the parties, i.e. the creditor and the debtor, may agree the order in the House differently than the amendment provides. [[in the contract]] Therefore, there can be no breach of the party's contractual freedom and neither, legally, is there a contradiction between the newly proposed provision of Section 1932 para. In the present section, Section 1806, which allows the interest on interest to be negotiated, since the new provision also allows the parties to negotiate it differently, that is, interest to be paid in the event of repayment of principal, but it must be an explicit agreement between the two parties, otherwise the interest to be prohibited shall be applied. This proposed amendment is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, as well as with the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. The constitutional order of the Czech Republic does not give rise to specific legal standards regulating the order of redemption of the claim. In its decision-making practice, the Constitutional Court has not yet dealt with the order of debt redemption. The bill mainly concerns the constitutionally guaranteed right to own property. When intervening in this fundamental right, the bill presented fully respects the principle that their substance and meaning must be investigated in determining the limits of fundamental rights. We do not consider strengthening the debtor's position in the obligation relationship as an intervention in such a right where claims on the claim and its accessories are not affected and there is only a potential restriction on the part of accessories with accessories. The draft law respects the general principles of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, such as the principles arising from the concept of democratic rule of law. The proposed legislation does not conflict with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The proposed regulation is in accordance with European Union rules, the case law of the EU judicial authorities and the general principles of European Union law. According to the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute, only the principles of so-called soft law, the principles of European private law, and a proposal for a common reference framework which is legally non-binding, as the Parliamentary Institute expressly confirms, may apply, and serve only to the inspiration in which private law codes can be taken in individual Member States. [[23.40 hours]] Therefore, there is no restriction or contradiction of the proposal submitted with the European Union rules, as the Parliamentary Institute has confirmed, and the principles cited, so-called soft law, make it possible, because they do not exclude the order of netting being different. It is not relevant that the prevailing European legislation determines the order of netting according to the existing wording of the Civil Code, since it is permitted to determine the order differently as it submits this proposal. Nor can the new text be contrary to the general principles of European law, because even under the current wording, the debtor may already choose to pay the principal first. The international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound do not give rise to specific legal standards affecting the order of debt redemption and any interest on accessories. As regards the rights guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights, the bill concerns, in particular, the protection of property. The proposed legislation will not have a negative impact on the state budget or on other public budgets. Rather, a positive impact on the state budget is assumed, since we should be allowed to refrain from usury practices where creditors demand enormous interest interest rates, they do not carry out the credits transparently, so that their debtors enter into a debt spiral at the end of which costs are incurred for the State, judicial and insolvency proceedings, state aid schemes for bankrupt persons and others that are eliminated by the adoption of an adjustment. The proposed legislation will have an impact on the business environment of the Czech Republic in the sense that it strengthens the position of debtors in the commitment relationship. The proposed legislation will have positive social consequences - less personal bankruptcy is expected - and does not affect the environment. There. Of course, the proposed legislation does not have any corruption risks, it does not affect the defense of the state, the environment, any other matters. So, and that would be all there is to this bill, so, Madam President, you can write that this is a bill that amends Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, and we call it that first the debtor pays the principal and then the interest. It's just the opposite of what it is today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u139	I understand that you are proposing the inclusion of a point as amended by the bill and so on as you have read it. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u140	Yes, No. 89/2012 Sb. Yes. And the second bill is a bill amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended. It is about wanting that, like politicians of nonprofit organizations with a political agenda, they have transparent accounts. I believe that people should know that citizens should know where nonprofit organizations are financed from and what influence whose influence they actually represent in the Czech Republic Evaluation of the legal situation in force, including an assessment of the current situation in relation to non-discrimination and gender equality. The legislation in force does not provide for the obligation of non-profit organisations to demonstrate in a transparent manner from which foreign sources they receive funds for their activities. The current legislation has the same effect on both men and women. Explanation of the main principles of the proposed legislation, including the effects of the proposed solution in relation to non-discrimination and gender equality and the explanation of its necessity as a whole. Non-profit organisations are recipients of funds not only from domestic entities but also from foreign sources, without being clear who provided them. Their activities often affect the social and civil interests pursued by the Czech Republic, and therefore it is legitimate for the public to know the origin of the funds acquired by organisations from foreign donors. Public control is best served by transparent accounts, which are already used by a number of entities to control their own activities and, in particular, the management of funds. Transparent accounts are important because the main controller would be the media and journalists who would like to, like politicians, nonprofit organizations with a political agenda, to ask who is funding them, why is funding them, in what interest they carry out their activities in the Czech Republic. The content of the proposal is that a non-profit organisation can obtain funds from abroad only through a cash-free transfer to its account. Cash income from abroad is not permitted. In addition, if an organisation receives funds from an account abroad, either from a foreign entity or from a domestic entity that has an account abroad, in excess of EUR 5 000, it must register such funds in its transparent account, which it will establish in a domestic bank. The account shall contain the identification details of the entity that provided the funds. A minimum limit of EUR 5 000 is set, which is sufficient to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens on compulsory bodies. For the conversion of funds received in a currency other than the euro, the exchange rate used by the entity in its accounts shall be applied. The point is to distinguish really small organisations that receive a gift or an amount from abroad of less than EUR 5 000 each year, so it is unnecessary for us to burden them with some accounting, accounting, reporting, and so on, because someone would have to do it and would need additional funds to do it. We are more concerned with non-profit organizations with a political programme that raises funds of millions of euros in the Czech Republic. The law does not prevent legal persons from obtaining funds for the purpose for which they were founded but introduces their public control. This is not about controlling the state authorities over the management of their resources, but about controlling the public. Therefore, the new regulation does not contain any sanctions. However, if a non-profit organisation fails to comply with its obligation to prove its foreign income, its credibility will be significantly undermined. It must also be noted that the new regulation will strengthen the security situation in the Czech Republic and eliminate potential risks, as it may not have been clear from what sources they were financed for some entities operating in the public sector so far. Imagine that a nonprofit organization with a political program would raise funds from Russia. I think it would be a problem at the moment and that we should know that journalists should know that Putin has sent them millions of euros. And I think that would be a problem, but we don't know that at all today. No one checks it, so we need to set up transparent accounts and let the public see where individual nonprofit organizations with a political program get money. Without prejudice to the general arrangements for account agreements between the bank and the person who opens the account, the regulation of the law on association in political parties and political movements, which provides for transparent proof of the origin acquired by the political party, shall apply by analogy to the treatment of transparent accounts. [[23.50 hours]] The circumstances of the payment order and the bank's obligation to maintain a three-year history of payments. Mandatory entities will not report the accounts of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements, but will only publish it on the Internet without providing that this must be the website of the obliged entity - they will solve the case if the obliged person does not have a website, so that he can agree with the bank keeping his account. The publication of money revenue on the Internet is sufficient for public control purposes and it is not necessary to introduce an obligation to transmit information to a public authority. The obligation is introduced for the legal forms of organisations that are generally beneficial to societies and associations. Some generally beneficial societies and associations really have turnovers in millions, maybe tens of millions of euros, and they need where they get this money from, whose benefits they work here. [[know]] Act 248/1995 Coll., on generally beneficial companies was repealed from 1 January 2014 and it is not possible to establish new companies. However, generally beneficial societies still exist and follow the new Civil Code when they can continue to operate under the repealed Act, and therefore it is proposed that they also be subject to the obligation of transparent accounts. In view of the fact that generally beneficial companies do not have special arrangements in the new Civil Code with the exception of transitional provisions, legislative regulation was chosen that the new text is inserted into the general provisions governing associations. The Act does not provide for an obligation to set up an account for other types of non-profit organisations, such as church and school legal persons, foundations or foundation funds, and it is not excluded that they voluntarily open the account. The new obligation to publish the payments received shall not apply to membership contributions and similar regular payments paid by foreign members for participation in the association. The adjustment does not primarily focus on interest organisations which are based solely on a member principle and which are the most numerous in the Czech non-profit sector, such as hunting unity, Falcon, interest collectors and others, some of which may also have foreign members. Of course, these nonprofit associations are not covered by this bill. The proposed legislation does not have immediate or consequential effects on equality between men and women and does not result in discrimination against one of the sexes, since it does not distinguish or favour one of the sexes and does not provide for different conditions for it. The bill is in accordance with constitutional order, etc., has no impact on people with disabilities, on national minorities, just on anyone. The proposed regulation will have no impact on state or public budgets, nor will it have an impact on the business environment. Transparent accounts are already offered by domestic banks. The proposed legislation will have no social implications as well as impacts on families or specific groups of people - persons with social weaknesses, people with disabilities, national minorities, etc. - or impacts on the environment or the defense of the state. It simply will not affect anyone at all, except those non-profit organizations with public control. The legislation eliminates the impact on the protection of personal data, as contributions from domestic members of the association will not be registered on a transparent account, so that persons who are members are not identified, thereby violating the data protection law as well as the obligations of the association not to publish a list of its members. When paying to a transparent account, the payer should always be informed in advance that the payment is made to a transparent account and that his personal data will be made public, while, in the light of the general knowledge of the Institute of a transparent account, it is sufficient that information is always added to the account number that it is a transparent account. The proposed legislation strengthens the fight against corruption by introducing transparent accounts for entities for which this obligation has not yet existed. Their introduction will strengthen the control of the foreign source from which the funds were credited to the account of the debtor. It is proposed to establish transparent accounts for non-profit organisations which are not primarily based on a member principle so that the public can control the origin of funds sent to their activities from abroad. All income from abroad may be received by organisations only by cash-free transfer. The obligation of transparent accounts shall apply to revenue exceeding EUR 5 000 or equivalent in another currency. Then, of course, there's some efficiency. Then, Madam President, there would be two laws that I have proposed, and I hope you have noted them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u141	Mr President, thank you, I have noted them, but in order to clarify, I would need to know the figures of the House's press. So you're suggesting, if I've understood correctly, that we discuss two bills. [[- Yes, that's right.]] And do you have the numbers of the House press at hand to get it right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u142	I don't have it, but I can restock it for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u143	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u144	And by ending these two laws, it's almost midnight, so I'd ask you for a procedural vote to postpone the hearing... Adjournment of the meeting, suspension of the meeting until 1 September 2022. I beg you to vote immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u145	Yes, thank you for the suggestion, Mr President. He's filing with the counter-proposal, I presume, President Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u146	Lovely evening, dear colleagues. I have registered here the motion of President Fiala, Radim Fiala, President of the SPD. Nevertheless, I am convinced, and I am speaking here for the parliamentary clubs of all five sides of the government coalition, that the one point that we have proposed at the meeting, the amendment to the pandemic law, which has already been approved by the previous government, when I see President Schillerová here, so that she deserves our attention. And if we've already given it to him today... Thirteen hours of time, thank you to the Vice Prime Minister, but it is not quite easy to calculate in this late time, so that this bill deserves to be negotiated, both today and the following day. I would therefore like to put forward this procedural counter-proposal and ask the Vice-President to vote on it immediately, and that, at the moment when we are in the debate on the proposal for a programme, we will interrupt until 23.59 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-01-ps2021-008-01-000-000.u147	Yes, thank you for the suggestion, and I'll go on. We have two proposals to interrupt the meeting. And at this point, I hear there's a motion to unsubscribe. I'll check you all out, please log in with your ID cards again. When the number of entries is settled, we will vote. However, before that, I'll read the apologies. Mr Jakub Janda apologizes from 19.30 until the end of the sitting day for health reasons, also President Markéta Pekarová Adamová 2. 2. until the end of the sitting day and Mrs Milada Voborská from 24 hours to 12 hours for working reasons. Next, we have an apology from Mr Pavel Bělobrádek on 2 and 3. 2. due to illness, also Mrs Věra Adámková 1. 2. between 23 o'clock and 24 o'clock for working reasons, Mrs Adámková once more 2. 2. between 24 and 13 o'clock for work reasons. And then we have apologies to Prime Minister Petr Fiala from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 1st and 2nd February from 22.45 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. I have read the apologies, and now we can begin the vote. We are still applying with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová. Please.
