ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-003-095.u1	95. Proposal by Members of Karel Haas and others to issue a law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /house print 270/ - first reading I remind you that we are still in the general debate, and we have interrupted Mr Haas' speech. Please, will you continue? Now, let's continue with point 95. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-003-095.u2	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. I will try to respond to the rest of the points that fell in legitimate debate in factual remarks - contributions from colleagues. I started the question of finance into sport just before the end of this point was interrupted. I've only gotten to energy, so at this point, I'm going to continue. I'm going to try to disprove the things that have been said here. The first very significant financial support for sport, as I have already said, is the inclusion of basically all sports organisations within the 630 megawatt hour limit per year into the ceiling scheme, which in the end is the aid in the order of tens of billions of crowns. The second point I want to mention, which is quite tangible - who you are watching the government's negotiations, not just the House's negotiations, it is, of course, reflected in the House of Press, which is already in the House - and that is a change in the budget for this year. At its meeting at the end of July this year - if I am not mistaken, from 26 and 27 July - the government decided to increase the budget chapter of the National Sports Agency by CZK 500 million. This may be a bit of a reaction to a speech that claimed that the government does not address the issue of funding in sport. The third concrete step of our government to fund sport is yesterday's government meeting. Who you were watching yesterday's government meeting, the government closed the debate on the draft state budget for 2023, and here I want a really strong thank you to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, that in the difficult political debates on the state budget, which it has undergone in both the government and the current opposition, there has been a very significant one - I will say the figures here in the next sentence - an increase in funding for sport, in support of sport in budget chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency, while maintaining the rules of budgetary responsibility that our government is trying to respect. For next year, compared to the draft state budget, which went to the government in the previous week, where the amount was CZK 5.904 billion, the government's decision yesterday was to increase chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency - I quote from the Ministry of Finance's official press release yesterday - to CZK 6.908 billion. Year-on-year! Who you remember this year, this year budget 2022, approved 4.6 - rounding, the government's July decision increased by CZK 500 million. The government responds to operation, maintenance, energy, sports organisations include in the ceiling and yesterday's government decision on the final form of the draft state budget for next year. I think I may have said a whole series of concrete steps from the last three months, when our government is thinking very strongly about finance sport. The last point about finance, because it was also written in factual notes, and I really like facts and specific numbers. I would say that the government's approach - and now do not look for any dehonestism in this and I believe that in my voice you hear seriousness - the attitude of our government and the approach of the previous government differ in principle in that we all want funds for Czech sport, but the difference is to budget the funds and then not be able to draw them, I will say the facts, or even during the course of the year the budgetary measures will respond to the current situation and the funds at the current time as much as the real needs of sport do. 2020, state budget, state budget of CZK 10.92 billion, actual drawing - I really draw on the Ministry of Finance data - CZK 7,94 billion, by CZK 3 billion actual drawing versus budgeted amount. 2021, this is the often supported amount of CZK 11.53 billion in the media, actually budgeted, but please, the real draw of CZK 6.01 billion, the difference of more than CZK 5 billion. So I'd like to ask everyone, let's not do so much budgeting, and let's figure out how to really use sports in the state budget. So much in particular, and I believe that it is relevant to the comments made in fact concerning funding for sport. In the debate, it was said that the novel - I think, now I hope to quote precisely - is sewn with a hot needle and not discussed, discussed with sports unions. In the meantime, the interruption was useful, I had not been able to say quite specifically to whom it was discussed. So, please, I don't know any other bill that, in addition to the official, statutory inter-ministerial commentary procedure, would go through such a debate with potential recipients of legal standards, that is, with a sporting environment. In the last week of June, a half-day discussion here at the Chamber of Deputies, attended, if I recall correctly, by the representatives of the opposition, which we were happy then, with 23 invited. In the end, the participation was even higher, because it spread through a free sports environment and we did not prevent any participation - with 23 key sports institutions, public bodies, from the field of associations, from the field of sport, National Sports Agency, MSMT, all the sports centers, Czech Union of Sport, Czech Olympic Committee, Czech Paralympic Committee, Czech Sokol Region, all three municipal professional organizations, key largest sports associations, FA CR, Czech Athletic Union, Czech Tennis Union, Czech Association of Skiers, Czech Association of Athletics, Eagle and so on and so on. Some of the people - and I appreciate it - have taken advantage of the possibility of commenting. I estimate that two thirds of the comments will be incorporated in the one comprehensive amendment that we are responding to the debate on this proposal. And please, of all the thirty key players present in the Czech sports environment - I mean the word not personally in the form of individuals, but the players just from the point of view of key institutions - none of the comments were blocking, all of them were merely specifying comments, and, as I say, two thirds of them will be incorporated. It has sent seven institutions, seven organizations - Czech Union of Sport, Czech municipality Sokolská, Association of Sports Unions, AŠSK, ČAUS and ČATHS and Football Association of the Czech Republic. None of the comments were blocking, none of the comments were critical, all of them were purely specific and we are happy for them. So much for the fact that something was sewn with a quick needle, or even that it was not discussed with the sports environment. In fact, why do we anchor functional division and clear functional division or gesture distribution of NSA and MSMT over school sport, college sport and extracurricular sport? Well, please, that's an answer to the call of the sports environment again. Whoever really communicates with the sports environment is hearing the call of universities to make it clear what of sport at the level of universities, university associations, what at the level of the Association of School Sports Clubs, at the level of physical education outside direct instruction and so on, which falls within the NSA's gesture and which falls within the Gesture of MŠMT. Those who call for it, do not make this amendment, want an existing unchanged situation, when the gestures in Czech law are not intended. So, on the contrary, this is an answer to a very strong call from basic, secondary and higher education as well as from associations such as the Association of School Sports Clubs. So much for the NSA, MSMT. [[17,00 hours]] There was a question, and I'd say an inaccurate comparison, so I'm going to try to explain it, and I think it's an misunderstanding between a political function and a professional function. There was a comparison as to why we are increasing the competence requirements for the management of the National Sports Agency or for the management of the National Sports Agency, and there was a comparison: we do not have any competence requirements for ministers. Again, I thought I explained. I'm looking for a bug in the transmitter, not in the receivers, so one more explanation. The Minister is a political role, the Minister is a political function, which in the end, as our democracy works - although not the very function, but the way it is mostly transformed in the Chamber of Deputies, in the responsibility of the Government of the Chamber of Deputies - is essentially the result of elections, the result of elections must be the result of elections. That's the role of the minister. The role of the management of the National Sports Agency is an expert role in the management of the sector's central government body. So I thought that the difference between the professional sector central authorities of the state administration and the role of the minister may have been explained enough. Second comment, I'm sure I said it in the introductory words, so I'm just going to repeat: we didn't so-called "suck out" the competence requirements, but we did make a benchmark with sector-specific central government bodies such as the Czech Energy Office, the Czech Telecommunications Office and so on, and basically we moved the existing sub-several competence requirements to the same level as the other professional ones - I really stress three times the word of the professional - central government bodies. The third point from the end, hopefully I'll really respond to everything, try to make notes. There was a question as to why we don't do this change with the Ministry of Sport, or why we don't even write directly the Ministry of Sport, and why we don't wait and we don't do this change at the same time as the Act on Sport. Please, let me just say here: I assume we all live - I live in it - in political reality. I guess we could all have a different opinion of the Ministry of Sport. I would very much like it, I would very much like it, but I live in political reality and we don't have the Ministry of Sport today. If the reaction that I saw today in the factual notes above relatively narrow, in our opinion important, but relatively narrow, organisationally functional amendment to the Sport Support Act was taking place above the formation of the Ministry, that is to say, a change in the competence law, then I am afraid that we would not have created the Ministry of Sport in this parliamentary term anyway when I see the debate. Second comment, law on sport: Czech sport - and I also stressed - has a lot of problems to solve: multisource financing, introduction of CSR principles, interstate companies and so on into the principle of public procurement, possible change of the program ČT4 Sport and so on, the position of professional athletes - this is much further in Slovakia. That means there's a lot of these things to solve. I also said fair and square that this amendment is one... such condition sine qua non, one of the important conditions for us to start changing Czech sport for the better. It's not a miracle that solves everything, but it's one of the necessary conditions. Control - I have already mentioned here, so it may be duplicated, I have already noted that it was from more colleagues, the National Sports Council today has zero competence in the law, the supervisory commission proposed in the amendment has legal powers, but also the statutory obligations, that is to say, the obligations of the frequency of meetings, the control of the management, the control of the compliance of the activities of the National Sports Agency with the law, the powers, the insight into the documents, the insight into numbers, the insight into the economy. The last point that I just want to refute, that's actually quite factual, is that there is inaccurate information in this debate, so I want to make it clear that the Prime Minister can call off the President of the National Sports Agency at any time. Please read the existing wording of the law. In principle, under the normal course of action, the President of the National Sports Agency is, and I am merely stating in substance, referring to the law, irrevocable. So much for settling everything that went down in the debate. I believe I've tried to answer everything. And so as not to forget the important points from me, the two important proposals - I in the debate, as I have announced in the introductory words, am reading according to § 91 para. In accordance with Article 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall, in accordance with Article 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union, have the power to adopt or maintain any measure adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with Article 91 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days and therefore to 30 days, and because if I listened carefully, there was a proposal on the contrary to extend the period by 30 days, in accordance with Paragraph 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I veto this motion, because an extension of more than 20 days may be granted only with the agreement of the appellant, so I object here to the extension of the deadline, with a proposal for an extension of 30 days. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-003-095.u3	Yes, thank you. I have noted a reduction of 30 days to 30 days and you have not given the plaintiff's consent. Thank you. I can therefore end the debate with this, so I am ending the general debate. I'm sorry, I haven't noticed yet, I'm sorry, so I'm still Mr. Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-003-095.u4	Thank you again for the floor. I would perhaps still respond to the translator and thank him once again from this place for having this novel here, for having this discussion, and in my previous speech, I merely considered it important to stress what the sports environment is calling for - and it was also at the meeting mentioned here in July - there is no power organizational structure in the NSA, but the problems, and it fell here, are different for the sports environment. And I think that even all the big players, as mentioned here, might have expected a little bit more from this novel. However, the fact that there has been some kind of criticism of the government in my speech that it does not do much in the sports environment is proof that we actually have this amendment that goes through the parliamentary proposal and, as mentioned here, it has not gone through any inter-ministerial proceedings. At the same time, I considered it important in my speech also to stress that the government has a neutral position on this, and because I assumed that no one in the government would do so, I considered it important to mention the negative aspects of the amendment here, and the negative positions that the government gave it, so I needed to mention them here. I also mentioned some of my personal complaints about the amendment, whether it was an education, and I compared it here to the fact that we all wish it to go to the Ministry of Sport and, in my opinion and in my opinion, my colleagues, it is simply a step backwards. However, we will, of course, be happy to continue to work together on this, if this law goes into second reading, and if my proposal to return the petitioner to recast is not answered, which I think would be the better option than to read a comprehensive amendment here, then of course we will be happy to continue working on it. We will certainly come up with our own amendments, which we will consider beneficial for the management of the National Sports Agency. And by the veto from the petitioner to 30 days of extension, I'm filing a 20-day motion. Thank you for your attention and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-003-095.u5	Thank you. I'm based on the fact that you're asking for an extension of 20 days. Isn't that right? [[- Yes.]] [[17.10 hours]] Thank you and I can therefore end the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Not interested. So I am going to do this because we are going to vote at this point on Mr Babka's proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I'll wait for my colleagues and colleagues. I repeat once again, we will vote on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote 92 registered 153, for 46, against 88. Denied. And now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. So I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I do not see another proposal here, so we will proceed to the vote. I therefore ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 93, registered 153, for 136, against no one. Result: accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. So I'm still asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees? I can't see. We can therefore move on to the final vote, and this is about two proposals. I therefore brát that the first proposal, when Mr Babka proposed 30 days, was not agreed with the appellant, but there was then a proposal for 20 days, and then there was Mr Haas' proposal for a reduction of 30 days to 30 days. So I will first vote on Mr Haas's proposal, which was before, and that is a reduction of 30 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 94 vote, 153, for 87, against 42. Result: accepted. That means we no longer have to vote on Mr Babka's proposal, and I thank you all for discussing this point. We can proceed to the next point, and it's a point that's been interrupted by 8. 9. at the 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and this is
