ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws /German press 301/4/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and we received its resolution as House press 301/5. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us, I see no other senators, only Senator Nytra represents. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Jurečka of the Environment Marian for the plaintiffs on the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly a few sentences to this draft pension insurance law, whose amendment came back to us from the Senate after the senate has decided to support the majority of the proposal, which also complements business firefighters in the area of possible early departures for demanding professions. It was the proposal of Senator Nytra. I have given a neutral opinion on this proposal on the Senate's soil. It is also based on the logic that I was originally in this novel during this year when we started preparing this novel, so I suggested that there should also be company firefighters. However, at that point, the position was still dominated to address this area only within the entire draft pension reform in 2023, but on the Senate grounds, the majority who decided, in addition to paramedics, to allow the principle of early retirement in the context of demanding professions for a category of business firefighters, which was thus extended. I have expressed a neutral position on this proposal for myself and for the MPSV, especially because I have seen a certain risk of returning this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies for time reasons when we are already coming in almost until mid-December, and this law is here primarily because, or this amendment, so that we can correct some shortcomings in the implementation of the very early retirement in the demanding profession of health care rescue workers, which was adopted in the past period of the Chamber of Deputies, but whose application, let's say, from 1 January 2023 according to the original, still valid text would not be possible from the Czech Social Security Administration. That's all right. It is possible, therefore, with this extension, which came here from the Senate. I would like to discuss this amendment and this Senate return today and send it as soon as possible to sign the President's signature, because we are adjusting not only medical paramedics here, and, on the Senate's proposal, demanding professions from the category of corporate firefighters, who will also be able to use this institute, but we are also adjusting part of the education system, which also concerns the solution of some of the uncertainties that were there with widows and widowers, and here we are also adjusting the area that concerned the transformed pensions of old-age disabled people, also in the area of education. So please let us discuss this proposal factually, constructively. I'm finally leaning for myself to support the Senate's vomit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor, and colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Hold on, Senator. If you have a serious topic to talk to, please move them into the lobby. Thank you. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Madam, honourable Members, my task here is to present the return, which is an amendment to Act No 155 on Pension Insurance, which the Senate discussed at its 3rd meeting on 2 December and its resolution No 61 decided to return the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies with the amendment adopted. You have my justification for the amendment, and I am only willing to supplement it. The main reason why I tabled an amendment was because here it concerns an extraordinary retirement of a closed group of members or members, workers, employees of the basic components of the IRS. In fact, the amendment does not affect the draft that came from the Chamber of Deputies, which means it does not interfere at all, and even though it has 11 points, it solves one thing that extends the circle to members of the company's Fire Rescue Corps. The basic components of the IRS are de facto three. It's the Police of the Czech Republic, which has claims, so they're out of the picture. Then they are medical paramedics, they are the subject of an amendment that you approved, or the subject of an amendment that has already been discussed and approved in the last parliamentary term of this House, but they were simply so imperfect that they could not be applied, and then they are fire units, and here we just have to divide it into two categories. First of all, it is the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and they are also under parole, so they are not the subject of this amendment at all, and they are members of the Fire Rescue Corps units of the company, so this basically eliminates unjustified differences between the categories of employees of the basic components of the IZS. As I said, it doesn't concern those who have claims to serve, that is to say, members of the Police of the Czech Republic, Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic or other security forces. And I will ask you to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u5	Thank you, Senator. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, want to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate? He's not interested. I am therefore opening a debate in which Mr Milan Brázdil is the first Member to join. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u6	Nice evening, co-workers, co-workers. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Most people, when they're watching things in the House or even passing laws at all, think, "I'd do better, that's bullshit, that's bullshit, I'd show them if I got into the House. Then there's a long way to go when people have to choose you. You have to behave yourself, be a rightful and good person, and eventually you may appear in this House. And then the feeling comes up, you say, "Well, I'm here, and I want something for the expertise I know, for the paramedics specifically at my place, to do something." And that's what happened. Historically, the most was in the past, the previous period, the paramedics here, and we got together. In fact, there was even a subcommittee on health relief within the Security Committee, which has never happened either. And, hey, not only the police, firemen, state fire department, but also the rescue service are finally coming out. And so we pulled together, and it culminated at the end of the last period, when we were on our knees, but after all, we agreed that we would like to straighten out a little bit of a social benefit or security ratio, because the ambulance, the most sophisticated file, had nothing, but the firemen and the police had them. And that's how we did it. We were happy. By the way, we did it like we did at the time with the government MPs and all the opposition joined. I don't remember anyone objecting, and it passed. Today, the senator says, "This is unrealistic." Imagine, the law is valid, signed by the president, and you know who can interpret the law? Well, just the court, not the senator, not the MP. It's just there, but it didn't like it. They say it's not feasible, it's too much, and that's how it started to be remodeled, and again another term, and again, paramedics. So we participated, we tried, we made an amendment that solved it, and it was across the spectrum. But that's not allowed either, because once it's presented again by someone other than who's in government, it's actually wrong, he says he won't get points on it. Well, I'll tell you what, there's no points on that because the paramedics are across the spectrum. Everyone's there, and that's not gonna get you anything. But it didn't work out, so we're not gonna approve any of your changelings. And the D.O.D. said it would change for the better. Well, that made it better, and, hey, Senators who basically record today's government find it wrong, another mistake that somebody's still missing, so there's another firefighter to deliver. I don't have a problem with that. It's just -- everyone who's watching it, you, paramedics, but even people -- that's how we work here, that's how we do it here. We can't make a deal. We can't sit down, we can go through it properly, and at the end of the day, we can't get out. Do you know who it is for? Well, for you! So we meet here again today over the Senate's return, more precisely an amendment that said that the proposal that Marian Jurečka made is wrong and needs to be added. Well, okay. I'm gonna love it if we all raise our hand for it today. The Senate is really just expanding it. We wanted it to be the three basic files, they're limited exactly, those are the firemen, the cops, the paramedics, and no one else. Mr. Senator, or actually not him, but it has to be the Senate's whole, coming here with the idea of extending it to other files. He's picking some, so these are the business firefighters. There are other elements like - I don't know - the water rescue service and so on, but the senát doesn't care about these. Well, okay. You want it, why not, I like to work with any firefighters very much. Well, I'm glad we might be at the end if the President signs it. I'd ask him, 'cause it's supposed to pay from 1. 1. to do so, because it has been going on for a very long time, a proportion of the social imbalance of some kind of certainty. I mean, and just, I'm done: paramedics, I mean, health care services for individual regions, those paramedics, they have no choice but to be perfectly healthy, to work for you and save you, but once they get sick, maybe they lose their leg, that person can't be moved to any paper space. The ambulance doesn't have any backgrounds like police, firemen or anything else. So we're actually going to allow it to be able to retire at least 4 400 hours if this guy does, he's 60 years old and older. And if he works any longer, maybe even a little longer. It's progress. It's not an ideal, we've tried harder. But it is a mystery to me how the Czech Social Security Administration will proceed now. There's a valid law - it's unrealized, so the court has to deal with it, or there's the new one that we're about to approve in a second and the president will sign it. Thank you for listening. I'm glad we're at the end of that thorny road. And I wish you good health, good holidays, and to you paramedics, let us handle it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Senator Nytra came forward. I'm just pointing out that you have two minutes to make a point. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u8	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, I would say to Mr Brázdil by your means, or I would like to warn him that it was not a senator or the Senate said that it was unrealistic, unfortunately, that was said by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as evidenced by the fact that to this day the extraordinary pension was not granted to any medical paramedic. And the Fire Rescue Corps units are an essential part of the integrated rescue system, unlike the water rescue service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u9	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Jiří Mašek, Mr. Igor Hendrych, is now in session. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u10	Madam President, Mr Senator, honourable ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would follow up on my colleague Brázdil fluently. Indeed, there has been a state here for many years, namely since 2000, when an integrated rescue system was incorporated by law. And there, and I would correct Senator Nytra, where the Police of the Czech Republic belong, there are real firefighters, professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters, but there are not exactly company firefighters, and there are medical rescue services as a third component. The first two appointed, the Police of the Czech Republic and the Fire Rescue Corps, are in the service, they are members and they are subject to certain benefits which I do not want to divorce here. It is the rescue service then, but they are employees of the county allowance organizations, and unfortunately, they cannot be applied to them. That's why we've been working very hard with our colleagues over the past period to get this situation straightened out at least a little bit, because we meet on the ditch at the car crash, at the fires, and so on, there are all three components, all three components involved in the intervention, but that one has been neglected in this spirit of social security all along, so that was the reason. It has been done here, and I would like to thank my colleagues for it in the subcommittees and in the Security Committee very much that it has succeeded in getting it through in the past period and we have brought it all the way here as an amendment. And the amendment to the pension law was more ambitious, and now I'm going to follow up on Senator Nytra again. We proposed this for the basic components of the IZS under the IZS Act, a clearly defined group, and we wanted only in the second step, which would be very logical, if the IZS Act had changed, and then business firefighters got among the basic components, and maybe in the future the municipal, municipal police, it would be a question of development, so then they could also have the benefit. It had its logic. And we did it because police, firefighters, as well as these professionals who claim to be retired, there is a certain number of members who could also pay off early retirement in quotation marks and use it. That's what I consulted with the relevant ministerial staff. So the original proposal from the past period had a little bit of a higher ambition and would prevent one thing: how Minister Jurečka put a little bit on MPSV officials who had long-term plans to create a group of people who work here under particularly difficult conditions, let's say they are sanitary categories III and IV, who should logically be favoured in the future, because during hard physical work we cannot wait to retire, as is planned to push it further, so there was now the Ministry for Social Affairs actually used this category and there were rescue workers who are still in category II. So that, Minister, may be a problem for the future, because you opened Pandořin's box with it and you didn't use the law we passed last time, which had all this resolved. It was signed by the President of the Republic of 30. 8. 2021 and its validity was, and that's up to you again, Senator, only from 1 January 2023, so the argument that no one has drawn it so far is odd because it couldn't draw it is only from January next year. So the ambition of this law is just to fix it here, and we didn't use it, and we could have done it. It would have been the easiest thing to do, and I guarantee you, it would have been easier in terms of other claims of other groups that do not meet categories III and IV and will be able to report in category II. And I don't know what we're gonna do about it in the future, or what you're gonna do about it. Still, I'm glad it came through. It has one more moment, and it also needs to be mentioned here. The law from the past period, which, as my colleague Brázdil said, is currently valid, the law dealt with the benefit of the possibility of retirement after 20 years of full-time work with the possibility of going 5 years earlier. The law presented by Minister Jurečka brings down this benefit in half, and after about 20 years it is 2.5 years earlier. It is true that then the number of other shifts can reach the paramedics up to 5 years earlier, but after 30 years of work. These paramedics see this, too, and they don't like it because we've already approved something here in some parameters, and now we've halved the parameters. Well, it's just so we're not here to pretend that we're doing it perfectly. And I would also like to remind you that, in the past period, 82 percent of the Members present for this law raised their hand, so I imagined a little bit that politics would be left out here, and when we tried to get it back on track with the amendments, I believed that my colleagues here would raise their hand for the improved parameters. And now only to the current bill. It's true that a better sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof, so I'm glad for the rescuers that at least a certain correction is taking place here. And on the issue of corporate firefighters, even though it's nonsystemic, and yet it could have been solved systemically, and it could have been affected by water firefighters in the future, it could have affected other components of the IZS, which are called other folders, so we lost this ambition here. So I'm still going to vote in favour of the Senate proposal, because it's going to help businesses and firefighters, even though it's not completely systemic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u11	Madam, honourable Members of the Government, Mr Senator, have a good afternoon. We will continue the debate. Next is Mr Igor Hendrych, followed by Mr Drahoslav Ryba. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be as brief as possible. Also, like my colleagues, I'm going to support this Senate amendment here, and I'm basically welcoming it. Personally, I see it as such a slightly possible mirror or perhaps even a slap of the current government coalition in the sense that we are still waiting, as has already been announced by the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of the Environment, that the law on demanding professions is being prepared, and in this sense the adjustment of their old-age pensions, and that it is probably waiting for a little longer than would be worth. In this context, I would like to point out and touch on this, it has already been said here before me by Mr Mašek a moment ago, through Mr President, and this is so that it is not forgotten when the concrete parameters of the law are created so as not to forget city police officers, because urban police officers are really basically, you can say, outside the system. They are not included among the other components of the integrated rescue system, yet they are an important part of the basically internal security of the Czech Republic and the city and the municipalities are basically not without them. On the other hand, they basically subpoena the work of the Police of the Czech Republic in the sense that if the municipal and municipal police didn't exist - as if they didn't exist, the cities would cancel them if they wanted to - and that's when what happens? It will occur that basically for public order as such at that moment, the Police of the Czech Republic takes responsibility, and then the obligation that is passed on to the municipalities would again be passed on to the state with all costs. [[17.10 hours]] Long-term failure to meet the state of urban police officers, through stabilization contributions, through the possibility of using municipal flats and so on. Those people can hardly do the profession in current conditions for, say, more than 60 years, because it is a demanding job, it is not only about the activity of the city police, but it is also about the fact that of course weekends, nights and so on. This does not always allow the health of a person who is older. So I appeal to this in the context of this negotiation and of this law so that the city police will be remembered when the law on demanding professions and their pensions is being drafted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Drahoslav Ryba will now appear and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u14	Mr President, I would also like to make a few comments on this point. First of all, I have to say that I'm a little sad that the law hasn't really been corrected so as to maintain the basic parameters that apply today, because we've repaired it or repaired it, but unfortunately, for the paramedics, it's really a little worse. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Senate has included workers in the fire rescue units of businesses in the area, because they are also doing very difficult and risky work. For your information, we have 79 of these units that have over 2,000 firefighters working in. Let us not think that this is something huge for them, but it is a kind of signal that we appreciate the work - as with paramedics - because it will not be hundreds of people who would take advantage of this institute, but it will be within the order of several dozens, perhaps even units. So that, too, is a signal that we appreciate their work, and I will therefore support this Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radek Koten will now appear, and he is the last to be logged in. Mr President, you have the floor, and then Mrs Pastuchová's point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, Mr President, we have discussed in the last parliamentary term how to help people who save lives. Of course, he has to be physically fit for it, and he has to be able to handle it. Given how the retirement line is moving around here, I don't think any of us would want a paramedic to come and get him, who, for example, wouldn't really be able to go or be able to do the job to save you, or to put out the fire. About the firefighters. I have been looking at several operations and I really have to say that both the number of exits as well as the enormous load and the danger, there really firefighters must be in very good form. Of course, reducing the possibility of retirement to 60 years in these professions is a step in the right direction, because I don't think anyone wants our paramedics or firefighters dying in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u17	Thank you. So also Mrs Jana Pastuchová's factual point, and then Mrs Richterová's duly applied for. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u18	Thank you, Mr President. As a paramedic, I'd also like to express myself. I will say once again that I am very sorry for the thing that we, as our government, our Members, have actually proposed in the last parliamentary term, and this could not have been implemented by a technical error. We were trying to save it. That's what we said. Whether it is systematic or not, I am glad that there has been a Senate amendment, because if we, as Members, had given this amendment for the YES movement in the amendment, I think that this law would not have passed at all, but would not have passed at all. We tried our best. We designed 20 out of 30 of yours. We've been compromising, we've all been begging you for 25 years. You just don't, no and no. The paramedics will remember and remember. So your promise to be valid from the new year is, but you haven't been very happy with the paramedics. So I, too, will vote in favour of the Senate amendment. We also had an amendment prepared, where all the IRS files were there, but we gave up because we knew that this coalition wouldn't go through.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u20	Hello, fellow Members, fellow Members, Minister, a bit of a serious note, it has already been said here today. I'd still like us to remember this thing that follows up on something that we've already had here, it was in the past period. It was said here that there was simply a need to correct the legislative problem. This is all clear and I would just like to recall one more fact, namely that we must also take into account the fact that the existing pension system is unsustainable, as it is set up today, due to demographic developments. All of us, as we are here, as we are discussing this today, can easily look at how we have voted in the past. As the pirát, we supported the proposal that he was here in the past period, we will support him again today. But I just want to remind you that this is important to these people, but it's individualities. But as far as the whole system is concerned, it is simply a comprehensive pension reform, something we need is going on for next year. We need the long-term sustainability and functionality of our pensions. Of course, it is clear - and again, I mean all of us here have devoted ourselves to this in our electoral programmes and in our professional groups - that whoever works in a risky, challenging profession cannot often remain in it until the age of retirement that is now established, that it is important to address it there. The difficulty of finding employment is also very clear to all. Therefore, we have always wanted complex system solutions, but at the same time, I am only here to stress that we are simply going to have a bigger system solution, something that will not be necessary against other individuals in a way that is actually fair. Therefore, just a point of conclusion. Of course, we will be very active in finding such a solution within the framework of a genuine pension reform, which will take into account the position of people from risky and challenging professions, but simply comprehensively - because now there are those who, I think, can rightly ask why they are not included. In fact, you wouldn't blame them. I merely repeat that we will support this principle proposal, as we have supported in the past, but note that we will not miss the need to tackle the issue of pensions comprehensively anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u21	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? I don't see anyone, in which case I'm done with the debate. I want to ask the Minister or the Senator for final words. [[No. No.]] It's not like that. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers and patrons from the lobby. I'm registering your application for check-out. I'll check you out and ask you to sign in. I'll read the apologies. Today, as of 5:30 p.m., Mr Marek Benda apologizes for reasons of work, and from 5:30 p.m., Mrs Tatjan Malá apologizes for reasons of work. [[17.20 hours]] I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to House Press 301/4, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 301/5.' I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 24, registered 146 Members and Members, for 139, against 2. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. And thank you, Mr. Senator. This is Mr. Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to take advantage of this time before opening item number 1, lex Ukraine IV, House press 351. Given the fact that we have taken on some delays in the negotiations, I would like to announce that, in agreement with all the members of the parliamentary clubs, we will today be in a state of legislative emergency, on this point, on this press, and on 19th, or after 21st, or God forbid, even after 24th hour. I'm just saying it as a precaution. We do not need to vote on this in a procedural way because we will discuss the law under Section 99. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u23	Okay. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. For the record, I'm such a stickler: I've been briefed on this, I confirm that, but it's not a deal. I'm aware of that. [[Mark Excellent: Confirmed.]] I took note of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-13-ps2021-048-01-001-002.u25	Okay. So I will continue to discuss the next point and that will be
