ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 6 and 7 ( House prints 55 and 56) I will ask - yes, we already have information on the applications, the first is the enrollment of Mr Karel Haas, Mr Brabec and Mrs Balaštíková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u2	Good morning. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have signed up to present to you, for a group of Members across the three political parties, and to explain in some way in human terms the content of the amendment, which is recorded under House document 847 in the information system of the Chamber of Deputies. That's why I'm here. First three such general things and then an explanation - it just as well worked out roundly - ten really factual, concrete changes that, if I can afford to say the word more comprehensive - the amendment brings three more general things. When we were going through House Press 55, I confess that in a group of Members we had quite considerable concerns about its impact on the practice of municipalities and on business practice. I'll explain why. For the first time, the European Directive brings something significantly new and significantly new relations between municipalities and producers to the Czech Republic, in the sense that, of course, such institutes as collective system operators are known in waste legislation, but the robust new system of mutual compensation, financial compensation between producers and municipalities, or between collective system operators and municipalities, is indeed a novelty brought by the European directive, and it is, of course, necessary to fine-tune this new system in some way as far as possible, so that it works best for both municipalities and manufacturers and operators. That's the first reason. The second reason - and in this we found really understanding with the Ministry of the Environment, I will say in that third point a well-deserved thank-you then - certainly by the amendment, and it may be, I will say, or it might be a concern of some of you, because the amendment actually came after the committee's discussion, but he responded - I will say it at the third point - he responded, among other things, to the very good way and in quotation marks the bujarou debate on the committee, so we do not change it - I underline it three times - in no material sense and substantive intention of the government proposal, I really underline it three times. And that third point, really explaining why this amendment comes only after committee discussion - I am not a member of the Committee on the Environment, I am here behind a group of Members of the Committee on the Environment, so I know the content of the good and quality debates on the committee - so I really do work together with colleagues from the Ministry - and now I will say both from the sections of the Ministry dealing with waste legislation, and with the legislation of the Ministry - really preparing the comprehensive amendment so that it is positively agreed, and it is positively agreed by the Ministry legislation, so it took some time. So that is why we only come up with the amendment now, and really from my side, without any flattery to the Minister, a great thank you to my colleagues from the Ministry that cooperation to seek compromise - and the compromise is always in some way challenging for both parties - so a great thank you for that. And now I'm going into business, I don't have ten points lined up by priorities, but those of you who work with the House documents, basically, according to the paragraphs, I'm going in chronology fifty-five, always referring to the paragraph of the government proposal that we're interfering with. I really stress, it's not a ranking by priority, it's a total of ten changes, and I'm going to explain them not legally, but I'm going to try to explain them completely humanely. The change of the first in Section 8 in the so-called labelling obligation of producers - brings one change, which is fully in line with Art. 7 of the directive, and the change is that the so-called labeling obligation can be fulfilled by manufacturers not only on the product itself - you can probably imagine certain small or dimensional small plastic products - but that they can fulfil the labeling obligation of manufacturers on the packaging in such a way that there is no discussion, no debate, no legal disputes in the Czech legal order - so really what the article allows. 7 of the directive, by which amendment we bring explicitly into the government proposal, that is, the marking obligation for producers not only on the product itself but also on the packaging. Change number one. Amendment number two, Section 9 of the Government's proposal, Art. 10 of the Directive, the so-called awareness-raising obligation or the obligation for the awareness-raising activities of manufacturers. The amendment brings this important to the government's proposal. Awareness activities are nothing more than public information, so if I am informing something, I need to know the purpose and content of what I should be informing, so that, in turn, the amendment is fully in line with Art. 10 of the directives define precisely what is to be in substance the content of the awareness-raising activities of manufacturers. Change number three, § 10, there the modifications together with § 15 is probably the most. Paragraph 10 contains several obligations, several rules, so the third amendment concerns the reporting obligation of producers to the Ministry of the Environment on the amount of waste. According to the government proposal and in accordance with the directive, manufacturers are obliged to inform the Ministry of the Environment each year about the quantity - really quantity units - of waste collected, I will now say this in a simplified manner, within the system of waste management in municipalities. But let's remember that the manufacturer has this reporting obligation, the reporting obligation may, of course, be subject to relatively small or relatively significant financial sanctions, but the manufacturer is not the one who would have the data in itself. So what we have added to the law is, in principle, the obligation to cooperate with municipalities, really the obligation to cooperate with municipalities, to provide these data on the amount of waste collected in individual municipalities to producers so that producers - so that the flow chain of the information is complete - can fulfil their information obligation to the Ministry of the Environment. And the second thing that we added there is some kind of correction - because the practice, it really is new, we really want to make sure that it works in the Czech environment - so we added some kind of correction to whether the details of the products are required fairly in some way, which will be correct, which the municipality will not touch, it will be for the assessment of the body of the state administration in specific individual cases. Change number four: there may have been a concern from the original government proposal that we might be concerned about the reimbursement of costs from producers towards municipalities, so that, say, they would not be inflated beyond some efficiency, efficiency, so that by changing number four into a government proposal - in turn, by Section 10 - we explicitly specify that I will say that the compensation for municipalities organized collection into collection containers for mixed municipal waste will really concern only common collection containers located - this is an explicit addition - in public areas, so that, in some way, they will be given a refund obligation to the municipality's producers in this respect, quite clear rules. [[10.10 hours]] Change number five, which we think may be the most important, but not the only one - that's why I'm saying chronologically, not by priorities. Change number five - it was one of the points that was the subject of an interdepartmental commentary procedure as one of the most important points. You know who you are familiar with the House's 55 press and the Government's proposal, that in the end, the financial compensation from producers towards municipalities was based on the principle of private compensation, which should flow from contracts concluded between manufacturers and collective system operators, respectively, and municipalities. In the end, it was not the way of the fees, even if it was one of the strong points in the interdepartmental commentary procedure. We have respected this path, which the Ministry considers better for some reason, so that we do not change the principle of agreement. In the original government proposal, there was a relatively short period of one year until 90 percent of the municipalities were to be contracted in the Czech Republic, but beware, covering 90 percent of the population of the Czech Republic, which would mean that if for any reason, the debate - now I mention this only as an example, not that I should have such signals - the Prague sprajcla or the Prague capital could never be fulfilled, and there was really a relatively short period of one year. Take the number of municipalities in the Czech Republic, 6,200, 6,300 municipalities - please do not catch me exactly for the number - so, of course, we leave this obligation to agree in accordance with the directive in the law, but under the amendment we break it down within three years and into three value milestones. Within one year 30% of municipalities covering 30% of the population, 60 per cent of municipalities covering 60 per cent of the population within two years and 90 per cent of municipalities covering 90 per cent of the population in the third year. Change number six, the original government proposal - and this may seem like more administrative rule, but it really was missing in the government proposal - so change number six is that we must, of course, assume that the world is evolving, which is a good thing that it is developing, come new manufacturers with new plastic products, so we had to add to the law an explicit rule on what time and value criteria apply to producers who will enter the market with their new products after the law came into force. So by changing number six in the amendment, we are actually introducing a time rule for these producers or new producers stating - or they are not going to be new producers - rather, stating new products that will be subject to this legislation as selected products, so a new rule and for them the milestones will apply from the first launch of the product on the market. Amendment number seven: so that the contractual process - if we have set out in the law not the principle of the public tax, but private payments under the contract, must always conclude a contract of at least two. There may be more, but at least two, there's no other way to make a deal. If, on the one hand, I have a manufacturer or a collective system operator, we have added to the law - we have also considered with the Ministry's legislation whether to put in a contractual obligation for municipalities. Now all representatives of the municipalities - and I think that almost all of us are in some role in municipality - can I reassure you that in the end we have chosen perhaps the most appropriate compromise solution, namely that if the draft contract, draft contracts in the new legislation, will be prepared by manufacturers, so if the design contract by the manufacturer - or always complete there the collective system operator representing more producers - will correspond in all the content parameters of this new legislation, that is: the manufacturer cannot invent anything extra bad for the municipalities. If, in particular, the calculation of compensation, that is, essential for the municipalities, the financial performance, will be in line with the rules - and we will get there in a moment - laid down by this law, the European Commission should also issue them, those compensations under the directive and under the authority of the directive, a more specific methodology. So if the draft contract that the manufacturer will submit to the municipalities is fully in line with this law, then we have set there an obligation for the co-operation of the municipalities to conclude those contracts. If we have a legal obligation here that we have to agree a certain percentage of the municipalities in this country, then there must be some - I say legislative, in a good way - a nudge from both sides. Change number eight - I follow up on these finances: we have refined the compensation obligation in three aspects in principle so that manufacturers - and we really tried to tune the model so that the final form of the law is acceptable to all actors, it is not worth writing the law for just one actor, it means for both municipalities, manufacturers and the Ministry - here I will tell manufacturers not to worry that municipalities will inflate their requirements for financial compensation. The amendment makes it clear that the amount of compensation must correspond - and this is the legal terminus technicus, I believe that the lawyers in this hall would confirm, very common, very common - they must correspond to the actual and purposefully spent, respectively, in order to use the correct view of the verbous, spent costs of the municipalities, let's just say, waste activity in the territory of the municipality. First rule. The second rule, which we think is very important for the municipalities, and it was not in the original government proposal: we introduced the obligation of manufacturers - because producers will be responsible for determining the amounts and the method of calculation, who will also publish the method of calculation - so we have introduced an obligation to update the calculation model annually so that, in principle, those municipalities will not have to be satisfied that, at a time of zero, a refund will be fixed and the same compensation will then be fixed regardless of real price developments in this country, so the obligation of manufacturers to update the calculation model for compensation provided to municipalities on a regular basis at least once a year. And the third thing I call myself professionally - in this regular annual update, producers will be obliged to take into account price developments in the Czech Republic, where the explanatory memorandum to the amendment says very in detail what they mean by taking into account price developments in the Czech Republic. The reasoned report clearly specifies that this is what costs are meant. We could not get away from the general inflation published by the Czech Statistical Office, because our basket from which it is calculated does not correspond entirely to the costs to be borne by the municipalities, so in the explanatory memorandum, we clearly explain that by taking into account or the obligation for producers to take account of price developments in the Czech Republic, we have precisely taken into account the costs that the municipalities spend on waste activities relating to plastic products. The second-to-last, ninth, Section 15 - again, I have always promised to refer to the paragraph so that you can focus on the government proposal - Section 15, the obligations of collective system operators. I could narrow it down to one sentence, that what I said for manufacturers, because collective system operators can basically imagine it as a kind of representative of manufacturers or groups of manufacturers, and for collective system operators in Section 15 we are essentially making the same changes as for producers. So if I sum up, the distribution of the contractual obligation within three years, with the same milestones 30 percent, 60 percent, 90 percent in the first, second, third year for the contract. The obligation of co-operation between municipalities in the provision of data to collective system operators and in cooperation with the conclusion of a contract between municipalities and, in this case, the collective system operator. And the rules for determining the compensation, which - the replacement - if it is the flow through the operator, will flow from it. So, again, the real purposefully spent, the obligation of an annual update. And the third thing, taking into account price developments in the Czech Republic, that is, what I call the municipality's valorisation of compensation. Change last, tenth, maybe more political than for practice, and I think the signal is important, and I am also glad that we have found a compromise with the Ministry. That's higher - I'm sorry for squirting - that's the amount of the fines. The directive uses a typical Union ptydepe that fines must be sufficiently repressive and preventive in the national transposition regulation. We try to look at the Czech law behind a group of Members and distinguish a little bit whether a specific legislation brings more - and now I do not say that word brazenly - bureaucratic responsibilities, or whether it is a law that protects in some way such carrier rights. I'm sorry to use an approximation of a whole type of criminal code or something like that, really, of that standard of principle. [[10.20 hours]] We can probably say to ourselves that this government proposal brings, say, another but necessary bureaucratization of the Czech environment, both municipal and business, and we do not think that more bureaucratic legislation should be chosen for the upper limits of sanctions that have occurred in the Czech laws in recent years, so we are trying to send out some signals by this amendment that our country might be more than repressive gas pedaling - and that is precisely the upper limits of possible fines - to reduce, to show that we are primarily a liberal state, that we are a state that is primarily responsible for entities. I also do not live in an ideal world that I would think that entities, the addressees of Czech legislation, will comply with these regulations if they do not have a whip in them. The whip, the term of the penalty, is undoubtedly an important part of the rule of law, but we are trying to make a distinction in some way, and the upper limit - now I could name individual groups of offences - but the limit of CZK 10 million in this law, which is primarily aimed at bureaucratization - but unshamingly, necessary bureaucratization of both the municipal and business environment in the Czech Republic - seemed to us a lot, so we finally agreed with the Ministry of the Environment to reduce all financial sanctions, their upper borders, as set in the law, at 50 percent compared to the original amount in the government proposal. So much. If anyone comes up with an amendment, notaben - and we are aware of that - I tried to explain this - he will come up with it after discussion on the committee, even if he responds to the debate on the committee, so we think it is fair in some similar way to justify it in a clear way for all of you, you deserve it. So that's a pretty clear explanation. If the debate raises any questions from any of you about the amendment, I am ready to respond. Thank you for any support, or - I believe that perhaps for the majority support - the amendment and, of course, in a detailed debate, I will just refer to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u3	Thank you, too. Mrs Berenika Peštová is now registered with both a factual and a proper application, so it is up to you... You want a factual one, okay. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u4	I thank the honourable Member for the proper justification and wanted to ask. Of course, the responsibility is given by the manufacturer, the manufacturer is obliged, not the municipalities, the municipalities do it for the manufacturer. As the municipalities looked, when you gave them the obligation to cooperate, because from my practice I remember historically, when we made amendments to the laws and I came up with such a proposal, the municipalities chased me - and the crappy move drove me, because as soon as I reached out to their responsibilities and wanted to give them some co-operation obligations, they immediately explained to me: In no way, these are fundamental contradictions. So I'm wondering how you managed to break this with the Union of Cities and Cities, because every community is preventing it from having any kind of synergies and some kind of obligation, and the Corse when we know that the obligation is given to manufacturers. And what we're gonna talk about, all the collective systems are doing full service for the manufacturer, whether it's an authorized packaging company or the collective system. So basically, I can give the collective system or the authorized packaging company, but that the municipalities would voluntarily commit to it, that seems strange to me. But I'd love to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u5	Thank you. I merely remind you that it is addressed through the President. And now, Mr Haas is registered with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u6	Thank you very much. I'm sure I won't use them. Mrs Peštová, through you. I'm just going to beg you organizationally that I wouldn't answer individual questions this ad hoc right now. I mean them all, and I would take advantage of it, because I could raise more questions about my contribution, that I would join the discussion at the end, and I would record questions from every single one of you - if that's how I can propose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u7	So now we're going back... No, still factual. Then please, Mrs Peštová, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u8	Thank you for the suggestion, but she's going to develop the discussion. So if, through Madam President, you can answer now, it is much better because we are going to move on. There's a lot of mayors here, and maybe they'll have something to say later. And then in order to develop it at the end, I think it's useless. I know what you want, but I would rather hear, through Madam President, the answers now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u9	So now rejoined, but this time for the general debate, Mrs Peštová, as a Member, said. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u10	Thank you for the proper word, I see I haven't received the answer, and I hope you'll start right after me. I would, of course, like to speak now, not as rapporteur, but as an MEP who is part of this group, and I would like to comment on what we have tried to do in these two prints. As the Minister mentioned, two seminars took place at the Ministry of the Environment, of course we were not impotent, and we also tried to go in a similar spirit, only that we tried to expand it even more and we were looking for consensus between backup workers and non-rewarders, because I am very happy - and I must commend the Chamber of Deputies for this - that the amendment of mandatory backup did not land here, for which I thank you very much, because the debate is still ongoing and I think it is very flowery, perhaps creative. I can't tell if it's split in half or if there's more backup and less backup, but in any case there are really strong arguments where we can see it from the position of individual sectors, and let's say it's the Union of Cities and Cities who see it as a matter of principle that they don't agree with it, because it can cause some problems. I'm sure Members who are also mayors will express themselves here, because there really was quite an interesting performance in terms of the fact that municipalities have to subsidize shorts, which of course are not cheap, and since we want to return life to the village or to small villages, they would actually lose this. Then, of course, there were other proposals about it being a commodity - and we now know what's going on, worldly what's going on, the war in Ukraine, of course sanctions against Russia, commodities and raw materials will become less and less, so everything becomes an expensive commodity, or a commodity that will be more negotiable and everyone will try to find a way there - recycling, and whether it should be a chemical recycling, or whether it should be returned as a recycling to PET or if we go another way, like material use... But I really thought the seminars would end soon, but the discussion was so big that even if we had planned it from nine to four o'clock in the afternoon, they could still talk there, stand by the tables and continue. And I was glad, I was glad that we didn't fight and that it was really material and the arguments were falling. So I thank this House very much for not reading the amendment to the mandatory backup, because this law allows voluntary backup, and whoever wants to back up, but not for the state's money, and it will be his. So thank you very much, and I'm ready for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u11	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. The first is signed in with Mr David Šimek, who will be prepared by Mr Václav Král. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u12	Thank you. Mrs Peštová's appearance brought about one information in me on the matter of the Union of Towns and Municipalities because I participated in several negotiations and I have to say that the Union of Towns is not resolutely against backup, the Union of Towns in this matter changes significantly the view of the matter, because it realizes that PET bottles are an important commodity, which is currently economically interesting for any technical services within the waste management system. On the other hand, there are a lot of other things. The remuneration system in this Republic is long overdue. Let's take e-shops today, boxes that travel the world and all that, and these are issues that the system doesn't solve. If it interferes with the system, it must intervene more comprehensively, which is why the Union of Cities is currently in such a position that it would like one brick from the wall not to be removed, but it has actually intervened in this system and a comprehensive revolution has been made. That's just to make up for the fact that the Union of Cities doesn't agree resolutely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u13	Thank you. Now, Mr Král with his own facts and will be prepared with Mrs Peštová's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u14	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Peštová, through Madam President, I do not understand why you are starting this debate here when I think all those involved are trying to tackle it constructively within the working groups. And, like my colleague Šimek, I would also like to say here that at this point, there is simply no time for us to make any conclusions here. I could also open my comments on this law, where I think it is a wasted opportunity to take a positive step towards fulfilling the principles of a circular economy, but we are not doing so either. So please, let us refrain from this and try to close the debate, which is really constructive and rich, very quickly, in order to finally prevent the salami method that we have chosen, whether it concerns the waste management plan, strategic documents such as the circular Czech Republic, the action plan and the subsidy challenges that have been written, because if we do not do so, we risk at least the inefficiency and inefficiency of spending public funds. So I would not really open this debate at this point, because you acknowledge, for example, that certain Members do not submit an amendment that concerns backup, but if we were to continue this debate here today, it could also happen that this amendment is already being submitted to these Houses by somebody. So let's do this within the working groups, not here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u15	Thank you, too. It is now registered with Mrs Peštová's factual remark. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u16	So now I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Král, through Madam President. But the discussion must be here! The debate must be here because these two House prints are opening these laws. I merely commended this House of Deputies, which I will follow up on the next previous speaker, Mr Šimek, through Madam President, and I am glad that this has not happened, because the time as it changes, and it has been said correctly, because suddenly the communities also realized that this is a commodity that they do not want to lose, because the commodity, first of all, is increasing its price, and something will continue to be able to do with the commodity. And I certainly understand that the obligation is given to drinkers who have to state, or they have to put 25 per cent of the recycling back into production and 30 per cent into production in 2030, but even those municipalities are already beginning to calculate and begin to think and behave with proper care. It just has to be a debate here, and I'm glad no one took that quick step and didn't put it there as an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u17	Mr Václav král's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u18	Mrs Peštová, in the mouth of Madam President, the municipalities are beginning to discover that, for example, the treatment of mixed and municipal waste will be so brutally burdened by municipal budgets that they may also be beginning to wonder whether the introduction of compulsory backup will by chance help them in this. I think our colleague Šimek said it quite clearly here a moment ago, and if we listen to each other during the debate, we will save ourselves valuable minutes for the work that we urgently need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u19	Thank you. Another factual point by Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u20	Mr colleague, I think we do not understand each other, through Madam President. Nowadays, when our gas is getting cheaper, when our electricity is getting more expensive, the communities are seeing it and looking for a way. I get phones where mayors beg me to explain whether or not they're entitled to a subsidy on sorter lines or a classer line or an intensification of the sorting lines, just because they want to do the endgame because they want to divert from the gas, and the subsidy titles are here, so I don't see why it wouldn't come out here. Let the mayors know the road is here. They can either divert from the gas and go this way, or they can build it on a green meadow. And it's good if he finds out about this place. So I'd like to get this discussion started. I don't have a problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u21	Mr Šimek's point of view is now in effect. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u22	I can't do it, and I'm gonna do it again. I would like to say to Mrs Peštová, through Madam President, that let us really, really listen to ourselves. I say that municipalities are very well aware that PET bottles are an interesting commodity. On the other hand, they acknowledge that if the whole system is repaired, the whole wall of the various other factors that are in the waste management system may be able to get rid of PET bottles within this system, so that the system can actually be aligned, because it is possible that boxes or other packagings that are in the system will bring more money, because there are plenty of black passengers who are now riding on the subsidization system within individual EKO-KOMs and other organizations, and if all of this is settled, it is indeed possible that backup - basically, PET bottles in the system will be replaced by other money, from other black passengers who are currently carrying. Let's listen to each other. But I think that now the main subject is to move this forward, because this debate really belongs to the Committee on the Environment, and not here in plenary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u23	However, we will continue to guide her, because Mrs Peštová, with a point of fact, came forward. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u24	Back to the honourable Member, through Madam President, we understand each other, Mr Member, through Madam President. I understand what you're saying, the black passengers are there. We only have one authorized packaging company at the moment, there aren't any more. There's only one, because there's no other one yet, or she hasn't gotten her license precisely because what's been administered probably wouldn't have succeeded, or so it's been evaluated by the Ministry, but I understand what you're saying. But it's gonna be a big deal. How are you going to get Amazon and others into that system? The meetings were here, but that's a really big problem. These are companies that are abroad, and it's hard to get them to put money in that system because it's coming to our country, so it's a long story. I know when I was in office, we had a big problem with that. But it's hard to get someone to have a mansion in China over there to put it in your authorized packaging company's system. I don't have a problem with backup, I say let's back up, but let's back up everything -- everything, that means milk drinks, just when everything, everything. But that's the problem that's going on, and that's what was said at those round tables, because, of course, milkmen aren't able to guarantee the quality. There's the Health Department again, there's the Department of Health who say there's no way they can back up plastics like this. But if everything, because the obligation is 90 percent on all drinks, not PETs, all of them, even the milk. So that's a problem that's unsolvable, unless, of course, someone's accessing it by subsidizing somebody's prices. I don't think he's gonna do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u25	Now, with a point of fact, Mr Král, Mrs Balaštíková, only subsequently. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u26	Mrs Peštová, by Mrs President, when you say that the mayors are calling you, believe us that not only mayors but also representatives of producers, environmental organisations and so on are calling us, and they ask when you are talking about Amazon and so on that it is not, so these people are asking, and why is it going on in other states, I would say, in all states of the European Union, and why is it not going on in the Czech Republic? Maybe it's because you're giving them bad information. Historically, even the Ministry of the Environment may not have taken a turn towards a circular economy when you wanted to discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u27	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Balaštíková with her two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u28	Hello, colleagues, I would like to respond to the previous speaker, through Madam President, to Mr Šimek. Please, I don't think it belongs - the debate - to committees, because not all of us who want to discuss this right now, and we are concerned about this issue, we cannot be members of the committee. After all, we have a limited number and the House always discusses what we cannot, or those members who cannot discuss in committees. I, of course, am in the subcommittee on the environment, I have discussed there, but some colleagues have not, and just as I cannot be in all committees, so please do not say that this does not belong here. It belongs here because now others who were not part of the committee can be involved, and this applies to everything, not just the environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u29	Mr Šimek wants to respond. Mr Šimek's point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u30	I will take the liberty, my colleague, of responding to this, through Madam President. You are right that this discussion is a good thing when it opens up here, it is a pity that three members of the environment are discussing this issue. We can talk it out on the committee. That is why I am amazed that we are opening this debate here, and I will be very happy to have the members of other committees involved in this discussion and will actually discuss this issue with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u31	Mrs Balaštíková and her factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u32	Once again, through Madam President, Mr colleague, yes, they are discussing it by those who are professionally close to it, but then we want others who do not have the expertise to vote, and they should take a stand on whether or not they will be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u33	Now, Mr Babka, with his point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u34	Thank you for the floor. Just a colleague of Šimek, we're all listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u35	So, now, the end of the factual remarks. Before we go back to the merged debate in which Mr Brabec is joined, I will read one apology, namely the apology of Mr Miroslav Zborovský and Mr Ondřej Benešík, sent at the same time, between 9.30 and 10.30 for working reasons. We are now going back to the general debate merged with the press 55 and 56 and to which Mr Brabec is registered, Mrs Balaštíková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I can only resist at the beginning, now I will try to play the role of translator and only, your middle, Madam President, for Mr Král. She likes you, Mrs. Peštová, but it's not like that, yeah, it doesn't really show. [[Laughter and entertainment in the hall, laughter of the performer.]] Because these are the signals that are being transmitted there, but they're not quite clear, but we know what it looks like when a colleague doesn't like someone, and that's a big difference. [[Laughter, entertainment and applause.]] Well, thank you, it didn't have to be. But just to do that... I'm going back to the matter, and I would, of course, also object to the fact that the Ministry didn't follow the circular economy. Actually, I'm gonna come out of what you guys were dealing with, and that's that thing is really moving. And I am also glad - and I say this without unnecessary cliché - that in those expert debates on the Committee on the Environment and even at those seminars it shows how difficult the material is, even though it might seem to us that it is only a matter of backup. It is paradoxical, in fact, that both the prints - and it is a good thing that the merged debate, which concerned the one-off or mainly the reduction of disposable plastics, on which there is probably a fundamental consensus - because it is really just interesting to recall that only because of the ban or restriction, and that number is astronomical, the consumption of these plastic products should be reduced annually by more than 1.7 billion pieces, and that is what I think is essential there. I also believe that this will be effective, because you may remember how effective it was when only those plastic or popular plastic bags in the malls were charged, and suddenly the consumption dropped brutally by hundreds of millions of pieces, and that was not a ban, but it was enough to burden them with some quite small amount and people began to think about it. Someone takes it ecologically, and somebody just needs some kind of financial incentive to start acting ecologically. The thing where there's really a match, I think it is. And I want to thank you very much, by your means, Madam President, Mr Haas, who I think very well, clearly and intelligibly explained the amendments, and I also want to say clearly for the ANO movement that we will certainly support every good and interesting proposal that will be bureaucracy that this standard logically brings - because exactly the debate that you mentioned, which you have opened and where part of your amendments or the group that you have represented here are headed - that is, how to do it so that the relatively general wording that producers should participate in, say, the system, how to clean up these various waste, whether it is butts or tens or hundreds of crowns, as it is, in fact, not to put it there, so that it doesn't become a bureaucratic hydra, which in the final, which is going to consume all of them, because then we will just argue about the order units or tens or hundreds of crowns, or not hundreds of thousands of thousands of these small municipalities, and all of these things that are going to say, let's a much bureaucratic, but it will be much less bureaucratic, and it will be a lot of it will be a lot of it is a bureaucracy, which we know relatively two laws, and we always know. And I think it's definitely going well here. Of course, we're still going to talk about this on the Environment Committee, but otherwise, it seems to me that the direction you suggested is absolutely correct, and we will certainly support this. Again, it is actually a little absurd or paradoxical that the debate, which was to be conducted primarily on whether the list of products that should either completely cease to deliver to the market, whether they are plastic cotton sticks, those popular earbuds, or plastic dishes, straws, mixers - we well know that not by far always manage to find the replacement so that it is friendly to the users, let's say, because we each have some experience with what, where it somehow succeeds in replacing it with wood or paper, how much it, let's say, user-friendly, replacement of the plastics. Plastic is a great servant, but in our modern society, he became the famous evil master, and that's what we're dealing with. We were still running an event under my administration called Enough Plastic, and of course there was a wave of criticism about why we wanted to ban plastic, but we never wanted that, because of course plastic is irreplaceable in many applications, whether it's in food or medicine and in many other areas. The problem is, and that's what I think is quite well solved here, how to limit the plastics that are necessary, which we really take, buy, get, and dump them in the garbage five, ten meters away, and we feel like they're going to get lost somewhere, but of course they're not going to get lost and they're going to burden the whole system. And that's the whole point. You know well that even in past periods, and it will undoubtedly also be in this parliamentary term and in others, we will talk about how which European directive makes sense, how it is unnecessary to say burdensome, or whether it is not about being, in Czech, more papal than the Pope, or just the so-called gold-plating, or gilding, to put on some other things that the directive didn't even want. I believe that in this case this is not the case and that the types of disposable plastics that have been selected in that list, which should be gradually limited, or whose production should be gradually limited, cancelled or replaced or in some way there should be better care for the product, or the waste already at that time, at least in the position of some regulation that should address the precisely extended responsibility of manufacturers, and, in turn, it should not become a second extreme, that, as it sometimes happens in Europe, it will just turn into a degenerate, and for example, the labelling of plastic products should be bigger in the finals than the product itself. Of course, we can imagine such cases. [[10.50 hours]] So I think that clearly - and so did the Minister - the law or both of these House prints have had some history, they have not been negotiated in the last parliamentary term primarily for the reasons of covido, when there were simply other priorities. I felt sorry for myself, and I'm glad we're talking about them now. I'm sure we're up for it. I'm saying this on purpose here, because if I took this debate today, which is being conducted primarily in the media, or even at expert level, I would have the impression that it's actually just about backup and that the law or the amendment to the law solves backup, which, of course, doesn't solve. It's just a crumb, it's stuck to it for reasons that were already here. I do not want to raise any emotions right now, but I will just say again that I am glad - and it has already been said here from both sides, both from coalition Members and from opposition Members, in this case specifically from Mrs Peštová and Mrs Balaštíková, that there is some agreement in this House that it is very useful, for example, to wait for an evaluation of how the compulsory backup system works in Slovakia, but also to gather - and that is now also thanks to the seminars - the arguments of all parties, which really even in our government seemed almost antagonistic, that they could not be dealt with. We also made round tables, we had dozens of different meetings and there it went hard, there were just real opinions, even let's say if the devil was riding the goat - and on the other hand: No, we want it anyway. Yes, I claim that we went to the municipalities in this case, when the Union of Cities and Cities, but not just him, but others, expressed great concern that the compulsory backup system would not pose a significant threat to the existing grading system. The arguments were logical from one side and the other, the drinkers have clear obligations that they must fulfil. I think they've done enough work, they've done enough to popularize the subject. On the other hand, there were, of course, arguments from both sides, which may naturally have been a little blown up in the interests of one side or the other, now I mean from the side of the drinkers, and from the side of businessmen, for example. But I think that we're all here to try to find such a way, such a method, such a strategy in this matter, that it won't be a way of trying - a mistake that we just don't get off on something that turns out to be completely impossible or useful, we'll have to fix it while we're running, and we'll have to get back to being familiar, here often used: We thought it was good and it turned out like always. I think there's already so much information from all the parties that are meeting here, and I'm really happy for the consensus that there's no need to rush, there's no need to burden these standards that have some elementary agreement on them, and I believe that there's going to be a problem that's connected with it, but it's not the point, and that we're just gonna smile at each other in the finals after we break up from that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. We find ourselves in a merged general debate on Parliament's press 55 and 56. I am now registering the rapporteur's priority right. [[He doesn't want to get off now.]] Well, in that case, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u38	Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I am certainly not one of those who would not want this directive, did not want sorting, did not see the problems, no. On the contrary, by sorting out the waste, I drink my dear husband's blood, who would like to kill me for all of it. I am very glad, I was an environmental and agricultural councillor in Zlin Region, and I actually began to perceive the problems there much deeper than before, when I mainly - and I would like to go back to that - came back to one thing. Of course, the packaging manufacturer has certain responsibilities, it's okay. All these things impose duties on him. Here I note that there's a whip, that's a sanction -- of course I like sanctions here, because in other ways, we don't bring adults to their senses. But I would like us to focus mainly on the fact that all these things are also passed on to the manufacturer of the contents. Now I speak for those involved, which are then food professionals who have no choice but to wrap it up into what it is, and if the packaging manufacturer gives them some price that they obviously have to project into it, they will reflect it and, of course, it will translate into the final consumer. You say, "Yes, by raising the price of the packaging, we actually sort of make people feel awful about not buying so much." But what I really want to say here is that there are things where we don't have an alternative and when certain products fall, because it's just consumerly unrealistic. The guy who buys the product, he just doesn't appreciate the fact that the content isn't that expensive, he's just looking at how much it costs him. And I can tell you, for example, for this resort, that they're monitoring it. This may not have been the case here, because of course we are monitoring the concerns, we are monitoring the waste, but we are gradually looking at how we are going to raise the price - and please, I don't want to say that we are not doing this, so I just want to say that when we have to educate ourselves to think that it will also be an explanation, if we are dealing with some way of protecting the environment, and now let's say this is the time when there are really enormous demands on us from the point of view of the higher prices that we need for transport, for lighting, for heat, so it will all be projected - so that we don't get to the point that people just stop buying it, because this is not going to show you. And I would also like to see a great deal of cooperation here, and also in view of our Presidency, which will take place in order for our Minister for the Environment, through Mr President, to ask her to talk about this too, so that education may take place here too, because, of course, I feel it from the resort that they will say: "You are dear, you are like that." But they didn't cost the content so much, there are other things that just happen. And I'd really like to have the interaction between the M.E. and the Ministry of the Environment here, too, because that would be some kind of enlightenment, why we're getting so much more expensive. Thank you so much for the material that the Ministry has prepared for this law, because I have read there for myself from the perspective of agriculture quite awfully important information. I must say that we as the Czech Republic do not stand badly at all in the production of waste, nor in sorting at all during the period when the increase in waste and the increase in plastics was really due to the covidal situation, so our numbers did not move so terribly over other countries. But I have to say, there are just things that I don't think we're gonna be able to figure out. The only thing that bothers me is that we're always going at it really fast, that it's just like it's too fast. It may also be a good thing that such an incision is made, something will start, but I would like us to consider those who then work with the packaging and who can no longer influence these things. I would like that very much, because when we say that most of the packaging in which the foodmakers are packing does not come from the Czech Republic at all, really not. I have to say, one of the biggest food packaging suppliers is Turkey, which I find amusing. The competitiveness of our, say, foodmakers from the point of view of how much the product then costs is uncompetitive compared to others. I don't know how they do it, because if I look at, for example, how much waste Germany produces from the food industry and how much it produces packaging, we're somewhere completely on top of all of these. And I would like us to deal with this, too, and that the RIA, which has been made, which, of course, only addresses the view of the plastic packaging, but to extend it to the other impacts on the resorts that work with this commodity, because that is where it manifests itself to us in a completely different way. I'm talking to these resorts, of course, and I know what the problem is. [[11.00 hours]] On the contrary, I would be very happy if, as part of further legislation, there was a need for a regulation that all manufacturers - I don't know - meat products or anything - will use one packaging, and let them just let their managers be creative about what the packaging will look like, but so that everyone else doesn't. I don't know if you know that they direct the strings to tell you what packaging they're going to pack into, and that's also the thing that decides, of course, the price, the availability. These are the costs that we could really reduce by adjusting this law in the future, the cost of this resort. And it would be nice to see a regulation actually happen under the sanctions, that there will simply be one kind of cover, and it will just have another label on top. The same may apply - of course, it may be unpleasant for the pharmaceutical industry again - but I think that we could somehow limit the fact that everyone has it different, that it is unnecessarily complicated, and then the cup uses all kinds of pedestals, nonsense, and we, of course, in the global, when we count it to tons, the pieces, we have wasted more. And I'd like to do a little bit more of that. I already spoke to the circus a month and a half ago when we were talking about disposable plastic that Europe is a 3% polluter of the seas - because, of course, the fact that we are beginning to deal with pollution of the environment by plastics was caused by the pollution of rivers, polluted by the sea. And I said here a sentence that if we don't start in third countries, if we don't really start education and we don't, like Europe, put pressure on importers here from other countries, then please don't get rid of it. And now all I'd do is take a turn. I visited Egypt with my husband, my husband went to see the Valley of Kings, and I went to see the waste management. And I can tell you that what I saw in the streams of the Nile, I'm surprised there's not enough in the seas. And that is perhaps the pressure of Europe and education on these countries, because if we as Europe are a 3% polluter, then if we could sort out everything here, if we could really make it 100%, please, we are a drop in the ocean. And I don't even want to tell anyone - we're certainly going to do this on the subcommittee, I'm already here with my colleagues, the Král, through Mr President, once asked if he knows what waste management is and how it is handled in Greece, because what's there is a disaster. And I don't think they're the countries that are the worst example of how it shouldn't look. So from this point on, I would like to appeal to the Minister of the Environment to certainly open these questions at the Council of Ministers, to discuss it and to proceed comprehensively, because we, as Europe, feel a little bit like we want to save the world - I have already said this sentence: we will not save it, but we can destroy ourselves quite well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u39	Thank you, Madame. Your speech raised two factual points, Mr Václav Král will first appear and Mr David Šimek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u40	Thank you. In this way, to the previous speakers, the President's mouth. When we're here on Friday and we're dealing with those coming outs and we're confessing a lot of things, who goes on vacation and who likes who, I'm a man, I'm gonna say it straight. I also respect you very highly, but please note that this point and this bill proposal, the text, the wording, is a product of the government of the past, and you know that I have criticized it and I have looked for other ways to deal with this difficult task, but in the end, in agreement with the Ministry of Environment, we have simply followed this path. So if you're asking questions here and you're scaring that products are going to get expensive and all that, please, nicely, let's all be aware that it's a product of your government, this text, and we're just trying to minimize the damage and we're looking for ways to move up in the waste hierarchy. And when we talk about how to do this, not only are sanctions, but also the so-called ecomodulation and related fees that are supposed to lead manufacturers to choose packaging that can simply be recycled better. And if you're talking about backup, that something should go up, well, backup won't cost anything, that's why it's backup. The backup isn't gonna cost the product, and as a person who consumes drinks from returnable or washable packaging, I know a little bit about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u41	Thank you. Mr David Šimek and Mrs Balaštíková will now speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u42	Thank you. I will allow my colleague Balaštíková, through Mr President, just to say for her speech. My colleague, if we live in the fact that plastics in the Czech Republic are really just a drop in the ocean, that's how anyone could say it. One has a drop, one two, someone has a liter, but really everyone has to face it, and if they see that there is a problem, then they have to start dealing with it. So let's really come to this responsibly, even if it's just a drop in the ocean. The second thing I'd like to say. If I buy a fridge, I'll pay a recycling fee to the fridge, and I know that once the fridge lives and takes it to the collection yard, I've basically been involved in the subsequent recycling charge. That is why I believe that when I buy milk and buy it in a cheaper container or in cheaper material, it is true that I have saved money when I purchase it, but when the waste disposal is realized, I will then pay more waste fees. And I think that it is necessary to really look at it throughout the system and look for solutions so that unnecessary costs are not incurred in the whole system at all, which a citizen of the system will pay. And that's why recycling is definitely the right direction, but it needs to be taken really comprehensively. That's why we're actually only here with volunteering right now, and it's certainly good to work - with voluntary backup - and it's certainly good to work on it and move it forward in some way. I believe that we will be sitting here in the near future discussing the introduction of backup, but in some logical sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u43	Thank you. It's just, you've been logged in with a point of fact. Did you withdraw your factual comment? Because you've erased yourself, I don't think you want to. Please, you have the floor, and then the rapporteur with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u44	So hello again. Through Mr President, to a colleague of the Král. Please, I am always, even though we were actually in coalition or government, I have always strongly defended the Department of Agriculture and Food, and I can tell you that my colleague Mrs Berenika Peštová, through Mr President, we have been in a huge dispute several times, and since we are both strong and insistent, perhaps someone could call us a fury, so we have had many fights about this. It's not true that I wouldn't, it's not true, first of all. So, Mr Král, through Mr President: I would like to explain to you that this has been the case, we have often argued, even then the Minister of the Environment Brabec said: I do not want to see you two flew into your hair, it will break down both ministries. So I did it. I always try to see a broad problem, and when I was an environmental councilman, I changed my mind a little, because I stopped defending only agriculture and food industry, I had to take on the environment, and my perspective changed. And to Mr Šimk, through Mr President. Please, I certainly didn't say no, you misunderstood me, colleague, I'm in. I was just asking us to explain that the price is not rising because the food industry is making it up, but to educate why we do it, why we have to do it, and why we approach it, we take this resort to explain it. I'm certainly not the one who says, "Let's not do this, let's not go there. I'm just saying, yes, I just want us to think about it more, to discuss it more, to take them into the discussions and, in a way, their defence and explain why the product might get expensive. And I didn't even mean to approach that, that we're a drop in the sea, and we're not gonna change anything. [[Your time!]] No, let's do it, but not at the expense of us destroying ourselves and not starting the others. [[Your time!]] Let's do this so they have to start.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u45	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Berenika Peštová's point of view. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u46	I would like to respond to Mr Šimek, through Mr President. We're already paying for the wrappers. You said it wrong. You said if I had the fridge, I'd pay the recycling fee, and then I'd put it in the collection yard, and it's normal that I'd be paying for the drinks now. No, we're already paying for them, we're already paying for the wrappers. Anyone who goes to buy any beverage packaging is already included in the price of the product, for which the manufacturer then gives the authorized packaging company. It's just to make it sound like you said it really... Maybe you're gonna say we're gonna pay even more, that's something else, but we're already paying. And I am, of course, prepared for a few more questions about Mr Haas, but I am waiting very carefully to report from my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u47	Your application, of course, is registered, rapporteur. You could have gotten priority rights, you applied properly, okay. In that case, the duly registered Member Karel Haas will now appear and then you will be given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u48	A good morning for all of you, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I promised, and that's why I'm at the counter for the second time, otherwise I wouldn't be here trying to answer all the questions that come up in the debate. If I were to lighten this up, I am so glad that the discussion has really completely turned away from our changeling. I have noticed questions or such feedback from two colleagues, from my colleague Peštová and from my colleague Brabec. First, the answer to my colleague Peštová's question, I would like to make it clear. As we have discussed the obligation to cooperate with the municipalities, I think that was the question, I apologise, through Mr President. Of course, we do not have the first fairest answer, which was not possible at the time of the amendment. We have no official position of professional associations, municipalities, which means the Union of Towns and Municipalities or the Association of Local Authorities, we do not. In that working group, we were colleagues from three political parties. That means, I understand that it doesn't have to satisfy everyone, but we've been discussing it with the mayors, with representatives of the municipalities within the three political parties. That's a fair answer to the way we're discussing it. However, I will add a few things to this, which I think are the most important substantive answer to the question. The law brings three such key obligations, which are in the highest group of sanctions - I stress, it brings more, but three obligations for producers, respectively for suppliers who are in the highest group of sanctions - that is, in the original government proposal for producers up to CZK 5 million and for collective system operators up to CZK 10 million - and which are somehow related to municipalities. I'll explain right away. It brings information on the amount of waste to the municipalities, and the information obligation must be fulfilled in specific quantitative units. This can't be some I'm going to say completely unspecific. So information duty, it's annual by 30. 6. by producers vis-à-vis the Ministry on quantity units of waste in individual municipalities. Secondly, what the law actually brings, such a weight-bearing element, is the obligation to agree, which I mentioned here in the reasoning. And the third obligation, it concerns collective system operators. Collective system operators are obliged again, and again it is in the highest category of sanctions, i.e. up to CZK 10 million in the original government proposal, the obligation to detect average costs even for each size category of municipalities. And here I'm going to say quite frankly: without our adjustment - project, and that's why I'm the responsibility of manufacturers and operators, and we don't take them out of those manufacturers and those operators - can you imagine that the law will impose an obligation on someone, but that someone will not have at their disposal, he is neither the originator nor the owner of the information that he is required to carry out, whether it is the obligation of producers to carry out the amount of waste, or the obligation of operators on average prices for each size category of municipalities? Or can you imagine that I have a duty to arrange for individual communities in those lovers, as we said, and there will be no, nor will there be a minimum degree of synergies on the part of either those who hold the information, because they have it from their activities, these are municipalities, or those who are supposed to be the other side of the contract? So I think fair and square here that if the chain of duty is to be complete - someone has information, someone has to do it by law and is threatened with real sanctions if they don't do it, and at the end, the Ministry is the recipient of the information. If this chain is supposed to be complete, this one at the beginning, these are the municipalities, the minimum obligation of co-operation must be. That's the factual explanation of why the interaction is there. I am happy to report - it is beautiful to see that constructive debate is good - I, for example, as a lawyer, am in a contractual obligation within the working group - and now I will be really specific - suggested even as a legally stronger instrument - I apologize, I think that lawyers - so-called contractual obligations - will understand me now. This means that if the manufacturer's proposal, the draft contract by which the compensation is to be implemented, would comply with the requirements laid down by law that the municipality would be obliged to conclude. As part of the compromise debates, where we also had feedback from the mayors, albeit the unofficial one, Karel Haas, for example, retreated in the working group with the Ministry with which we were preparing the changeling, and we put in place an obligation to cooperate. So that's an explanation of the obligation to cooperate. And the last, fourth, note. In the case of the obligation of cooperation between municipalities, unlike producers and operators, it is really an obligation, and now I stress, because we consider that municipalities as public bodies do not need a financial whip in the form of a fine, so in the case of municipalities - I can soothe all the representatives, all the mayors, all the councillors in our ranks, I can soothe the public if they listen to us - so, for the obligation of cooperation, I think it is perfectly correct and fair, there is no penalty because we expect a public legal person of the type of municipality to impose it: Provide synergies, so the cooperation will provide it. That's the answer to my colleague Peštová's question. And this may not have been a question, but it was some feedback that I tried to listen to from my colleague Brabec, through Mr President. My colleague Brabec mentioned - and I understood that this was in the sense of supporting how he is now embroidering in the Chamber of Deputies in the 55th - he mentioned the very contradictory positions of individual comment points in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure on the 55th. I can confirm that, indeed, the opinions were completely contradictory between ministries and other comment points, such as the business sector - the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Trade and Tourism Union. I think that the amendment is precisely the aim, in some way to smooth out the edges that have been exposed in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, as I said at the outset of my first speech, and somehow to find a balanced solution between all three stakeholders in the new process between municipalities, producers, or collective system operators and the Ministry. If that's all it takes to get the feedback, because that reference from my colleague Brabec was there? That's the answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording two factual points. First, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, then the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u50	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. For the third time, I will not dispute, please, Mr Haas, through Mr President, your amendments. What amazes me, then, is that you do not have the professional position of ammunition, that you have not dealt with them, because I cannot imagine - and you said that you only have them from among your Members. I know there's a lot of you, mayors here in the coalition. But it amazes me so much, because I can't imagine that we as farmers might be doing something without asking the professional organisations they have to do it. That's completely unthinkable, because we're making laws for them, we want to know what they're up to. It's a surprise for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u51	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark from the rapporteur. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u52	I was gonna say part of what my previous speaker said, but I'm gonna keep going. The obligation is given to producers. We currently have a lot to talk about in the community. That's what the mayors nod here and say they do. That's right. Manufacturers have already created an authorized packaging company in the Packaging Act, which makes full service for them and actually fulfills their obligation through the authorised packaging company. And what did the authorized company do? She hit the village again. I am surprised that municipalities sit here and only nod how satisfied they are, but in any case the obligation is given to manufacturers. [[11.20 hours]] And if we're talking about products in this product law, we're talking about tobacco products or cigarettes, respectively. We're talking about you giving responsibilities to municipalities to collect and report on who throws out as many butts and where the butts will be, and on that basis, the manufacturers will probably be paying for the collective system. The municipalities will have to report it as it is in your parliamentary proposal. But that's why I volunteered to ask you even more questions, but you were faster. So they're gonna have to do a report. A collective system based on that community will pay for doing all this. But I'm ready, I have more questions, but I'm just going to outline this, if you'd like to answer that, too, how you're treated for this. This means that the municipality will have another obligation, which we will give it by law, there will be synergies. I'm against it, for example, because I enjoyed it with the Union of Towns and Villages, and as soon as I wanted to give any cooperation, they yelled at me immediately. I say I have another entry ready, this is just a factual point. If you react, I can make more points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u53	Madam rapporteur, since there is no one else with an actual application... No, I was wrong, Mr. Karel Haas's actual application has just come in. Please come, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think it was more systematic, therefore, to ask those questions in the debate and I would sum them up as I suggested. It didn't happen, but it's fine. This debate can take two different forms. I will give the answer, through Mr President, to my colleague Balaštíková. We did not just negotiate with the mayors of the MPs, I said that we had informal negotiations with the mayors of the three political parties, which we have in this rapid communication, I will say a perimeter - so not only with the mayors of the MPs, I did not say such a thing - with the mayors of these three political parties, and it was indeed a timely reason to prepare the amendment. I stress once again - and now it is Mrs Peštová's reply, again through Mr President - we do not want any new report from the municipalities in the amendment. I may have explained it too half-pathically. If the municipality holds information not about the quantity of products - we read the law properly - about the amount of waste collected within the municipal waste management, then no one but the municipality knows the amount of waste collected in its waste management. That's logical, isn't it? If the annual obligation is no later than 30. 6. the following year, about the amount of waste collected in each municipality, we give the producers, the producer must get the information from the municipality. Nothing more, nothing less, if it's that understandable by now. It would have been the same with the contracts. If two parties conclude contracts, then the other one - I say, I wanted to be more stringent, put it even into a contractual obligation; life is a compromise, I gladly gave way - so the obligation to interact with the other party if the manufacturer or operator brings it a contract that fully complies with the law, including the amount of compensation, is merely a co-operation towards the conclusion of the contract. I don't really see anything conflicting about that. So much for the reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u55	Thank you. So now there is no factual point. Madam rapporteur, you may step forward with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u56	So now I can be longer, and I can take it apart. When the End-of-life Act was being prepared, or when the amendment to the Packaging Act was being prepared, and it was about extending the possibilities for other authorised packaging companies to be created specifically in the Packaging Act, there were many amendments to make it easier, to open more so that more authorised packaging companies would be available, so one of the amendments - I do not know whether you were its author or co-author, I apologise through Mr President - was something similar, such an idea was there. You don't want to hear the mayors here, that was a scream! It was about each municipality being obliged to enter into a contract with a new authorised packaging company if it was created. Well, that was awful here, that was awful. I thought they were gonna eat me alive on the environmental committees. And that was just an amendment. You said you wanted to be tougher - it was something similar. Thank God you softened it up, because if you didn't soften it up, believe that the Union of Towns and Villages will sniff it up and start a really big rumble. And if it doesn't, then something's going on in the Union of Cities and Cities. I don't know if it's positive or not positive, but I'm surprised it suddenly turned in a completely different direction. I'd rather think about it when you said that, of course, the contractual relationship is between the two sides, between the community and the collective system. Now my point is that there's actually going to be two contractual relationships. Firstly, it is a contractual relationship between the collective system and the municipalities concerned. Is that right, did I get that right through the President? There will have to be contractual relations between the collective system, which will be created new to the given product, which will have to be collected back and between municipalities. Another is the contractual relationship between the collective system and the manufacturer, because manufacturers establish a collective system. And now I can't get into my head - and I'm sure you can explain - how you put some kind of calculator in there like a state. As a state, you're putting some calculator or, respectively, some mechanism -- you called it valorization, I listened to you carefully -- how are you going to compose it? How do you want to enter between the manufacturer's relationship and the collective system as a state? I can't figure that out. Or between the collective system and the community? You can't go in there like a state in any way, you can't. That's one thing I've been wondering about here, how you want to treat it there, because it was also one of the things that has been constantly accused of us, that the state must in no way interfere with the municipalities and dictate to the municipalities with whom they have and with whom they should not close. I know you put it there as a recommendation, but after that, you're putting some prices on it for which the collective system will actually do it for the community, and the prices will be reviewed. And how can you put that as a state when the relationship is between the collective system and the manufacturer? What's it to the state? What have you got to do with this? I would quite like to explain, and I believe that this discussion will finally start here, because it really isn't easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u57	Thank you. It is therefore now Mrs Eva Fialová, who has been duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u58	Thank you for the floor. I'm sure I won't be this emotional and maybe I'll thank my colleagues for pointing things in the right direction, and I'll have questions for the Minister, because it says in the law itself that there is a special decree on how to run an informative campaign by manufacturers themselves. Now, after specifying the amendment, if the Ministry has already wondered what the resemblance will be, because there are some minimum requirements for manufacturers to know what they are waiting for - whether they will be recommended for the individual type of product listed in the individual annex, whether it be cotton bars, hygienic needs and so on, whether the Ministry is already ready for this and whether there are at least some parameters to be seen here. Otherwise, I would also like to thank you - I will not go into any details here - but for not talking about mandatory backup and for not reading any amendment here in this regard. I would like to thank both the Ministry and the two chairmen of the subcommittee for the technical section that they organised a joint seminar which was very constructive. And to me personally, who had a clear view of it before, they led me to think and to think further about the need to think about it and look for some compromise solutions to find a working, really effective system for all those products in the future. This is my thanks, and I will be glad if the Minister has some information about the individual decrees that go with the law here - for which I personally am not very happy - are going to be prepared at all, and whether we know the specific parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u59	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm recording two factual points. First, Mr Jiří Kobza and Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I follow a debate that is very comprehensive, even very professional in some ways, but I lack some insight into the future and the current situation that is happening especially in the areas of petrochemicals, in the areas of oil supply, because everything here is related. Oil is at the beginning and the discussion on plastic recycling is at the end, so I think that the primary question should probably be whether our packaging manufacturers and beverage companies are somehow prepared for a situation that may be critical to them, which means that there may actually be a shortage of plastics on our market, because there will be insufficient oil from what they are made, and how, in fact, all these decrees that we are talking about and legal ties will respond, because then we suddenly find out that we are dealing with a war that is already over, and we are not dealing with the one that awaits us. So I'd just like to appeal here to think about these links - recycling, compulsory backup, etc. - so that it can also be considered that it can actually occur when material emergency occurs here, when packaging manufacturers, beverage companies will be forced to look for alternative solutions. And then we're out of plastics again. I would just like to add this to the discussion and ask that this option be also envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Richard Brabec will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to react briefly, Mr President, so that this does not completely fit in, on behalf of my colleague, the Král, by your means. First of all, it's just this gentle, gentle poking that it's still after our government. Well, yes, but she is, of course, a European standard, and we didn't make it up either, and like you, we tried to give it some form that wouldn't be significantly burdensome, and as I used the term here, a gilding system to add other responsibilities. And once again, I am glad that this debate is also being held here in professional circles, so that it will really remain something that will motivate the producers, which will be beneficial for the community. I still wanted to stop at one term that you mentioned either you or Mr Haas, quite rightly, and that is what awaits us here, as well as the Ministry of the Environment and us here afterwards, as a big job, and that is the term ecomodulation, because ecomodulation is really the concept that has appeared in the European directive, but frankly, it is described in about two or three sentences, and we have found that since then it has not actually completely progressed in that significant, more detailed description of how ecomodulation is actually supposed to work. And that is so crucial, because frankly, ecomodulation is European, and I can hardly imagine that perhaps this ecomodulation here will be completely different from Germany, because manufacturers are multi-national, and the idea that a German manufacturer or supplier here will be ecomodulating in terms of packaging in a completely different way in the Czech Republic than in Germany or France is simply hard to imagine. So we're definitely going to have a big debate about what this ecomodulation is about to actually bring what's expected of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u63	Thank you, including the perfect respect for time, and now Mr Jiří Kobza's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I have yet to realise one thing, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate also lacks another point, and that is actually a restriction on the entry of plastics into the environment. A classic example can be a new wine law. We who are from South Moravia know what's going on. In fact, there was a ban on trade in wine in stainless steel barrels that circulated, returned, rinsed and went back into circulation, and replaced it with bags of bag-in-box type, which actually caused several trains of plastic carton waste that were not here before. And we're still dealing with the consequences of mistakes of a similar type that are at the beginning, and then we're figuring out how to solve waste. We don't care why the waste is even generated, we don't care that it didn't actually have to be here, we don't solve ways to avoid this waste by simply preventing it from entering this state's ecology system at all. Because I also see it when they had to take new waste containers in different restaurants thanks to bag-in-boxes, they had to change their contracts for waste management and so on. So please, in all this discussion that is going on here, let's not forget that we as legislators are responsible not only for how this waste is going to be dealt with at the end, but also for the fact that it is even being created, because we should not allow such principles where waste is created just because a few companies think they should sell their wines rather than those competitors. So I'd just appeal to that here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u65	Thank you, too. I currently have no application for a general debate. I'm asking if that's the case. prosit, Mr Haas, a proper application for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u66	Thank you very much, a promise is a promise, answering all the questions. And I didn't want to waste my paperwork application anymore, I'm sorry. On Mrs Peštová and on her question, through Mr President, I believe that this will perhaps be all the questions. How is the state going to enter this with a calculation? The answer is that, together with the Ministry, and this was already the settlement of the interreort, the path of contractual compensation was chosen, in other words, up to the amount of compensation between municipalities and producers, or between municipalities and collective system operators. The state will not enter into a specific sum at all. This was, among other things, one of the observations of the Ministry of Finance which had doubts about this contractual form of the construction of the compensation. In the previous parliamentary term, the Ministry of Finance recommended the way of public payment, payment of the fee, but the legally quite possible way of contractual compensation between municipalities and producers, between municipalities and collective system operators was chosen. So the state will not enter into any specific amount. The law, and that does not change anything, please, the amendment. There were questions about how it would be calculated. Yes, if the Ministry took the path of contractual compensation, it said: The amount of compensation must be determined by the manufacturer with some corrections. And we are to the corrections - what, in substance, must include, what types of costs on the part of the municipalities, this, of course, is already a government proposal, let § 10 para. 2, if I'm not mistaken, I'm not in front of me now, or Section 15, par. 2, there you have the categories of costs listed, which the manufacturer or operator must include in the calculation, in the method of calculation of the refund, which is then paid to the municipalities. The only thing we put in there, and I don't think that anything is illegal - or we didn't change into, say, the type items that make up the calculation of the refund - what we put in there is the correction of the actual costs and the cost that was effectively incurred, on which the Ministry was completely in agreement to avoid any, let's say, inflating amounts. That's one correction. What we have put very much in favour of the municipalities is the regular annual obligation of the manufacturer so that the municipality does not have to ask that the manufacturer must update the method of calculation each year. And c) that they must take into account what I call in quotation marks the word valorisation - you will not find the word valorisation in the amendment - so they must take into account the annual update of price developments. Perhaps we can say hard, we may not see deflation in waste disposal costs, so simply inflation increases in the cost of price increases that municipalities spend on their waste economies. [[11.40 hours]] So the state really will not enter into this in any way except that it has put in the law itself these three generally formulated - but quite specific in the sense that perhaps they will produce a positive effect for the municipalities - these three corrections. And then I saw Mr Kobza's question, once again through Mr President, that we are not discussing entry. It does not, therefore, concern the amendment, but I dare to answer here, and I think that perhaps the Minister would say so in the final words herself, again through the President. Well, the basic obligation, it doesn't concern the changeling, no one touched it, the basic obligation of this new law in Section 6 is to ban the distribution of certain plastic products. In other words, I will say, the first entry ever and generation of plastic waste for selected plastic products is dealt with in the first mandatory paragraph of the new law, in Section 6. Thank you. I hope all the questions are answered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just the rapporteur with a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u68	I would still like to respond to the honourable Member. You, of course, are going some way, in any case, we have an authorized packaging company here. Although - it's a different law, it's not about disposable plastic now - it's actually working already, yes, it already has a covered network, it has contracts with 6,200 municipalities, maybe around 90, maybe 94 percent has covered throughout our republic. I just want to ask if you've had any discussions with them, because in their nature, they've already been contracted, they've already got communities, and you're on your way to a new one, even though the road is already here, the network has been working here, and you've been doing it for three years. If you combined what's already on the market here, I don't think this trip could be three years old, but maybe you could do it in two years, maybe even a year, because I'm saying it's already arranged here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u69	Thank you, rapporteur. A factual point, we continue in a series of factual points, now Mr Karel Haas and his factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u70	It's the last deed from me. I don't think we're reading a new government proposal. There are existing collective system operators, they have contracts with municipalities, but please - I said so in the opening words and maybe that time has passed - the government proposal brings something that does not exist in this country. The existing contracts contain no financial performance within the meaning of this new law vis-à-vis municipalities, that is what must be renegotiated, that has nothing to do with the existing contracts. The new law brings a new contractual obligation and what will be in it, a completely diametric leap for the Czech legal environment, for the Czech business environment, are the financial compensations. I don't know how else to explain it. This means that the existing contractual system is difficult to use.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u71	Thank you. The rapporteur, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u72	Mr President, do you mean to tell me that an authorized packaging company does not give the municipalities any money that the municipalities do it for a standard? I mean, the contractual relationship's in there, too! It's also a financial character. The village is doing something, doing some duty or collecting waste, packaging waste, showing up and getting a reward for it, for the packaging waste. He doesn't get it all, that's true, but he gets it for the packaging. So I'm saying the system already works here. I'm not saying that you had à la style authorized packaging company, I'm just saying that the authorized packaging company already has an appointment, so the routes are already there. I'm not saying that you should have associated with this and put an amendment to the contract, I didn't say that either, but since I know that authorized packaging company is going to update its contracts with all the municipalities, you could have used it and done it within that, because we also have to negotiate 6,200 municipalities. And don't tell me it's not working. It's working, it's just having fun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u73	Thank you. Do I therefore ask whether anyone is still reporting to the merged general debate? A proper application? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u74	Thank you. Hello, coworkers and colleagues, I'm just going to contribute a little bit to the mill. I'm listening to the expert debate here. I'm not an expert on this subject. For me, as far as I know, generally in Europe, packaging has been handled for a long time. As far as total pollution is concerned throughout the world, unfortunately, there is a problem that we are just a fraction. There's no way I'm gonna say that we're gonna resign, that it's just the drop, on the contrary, it's good. But if we don't take the next step, that means worldwide, we can, in essence, argue here for two or three days, we'll be alienating it, but unfortunately, the global effect will be slim. Just look at some of the footage from India, South America. There's a garbage truck coming in, he's coming up to the river, he's gonna spill it all over. This means that we Evropan here, I think we have little to do with it, we are doing everything we can to do it, but attention should also be focused on the global market. And if China doesn't start cooperating, India won't start cooperating, we're doing some cosmetic modifications here, and unfortunately the resulting effect isn't what it should be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u75	Thank you. Mr Richard Brabec's point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am still apologizing - through you, but even without your means, I apologize to Mr Haas for asking you a question which, now that I have listened to it, I was not quite sure who it was discussed with. You have spoken that your amendments are a matter of agreement between a group of Members, I understand that. Then you talked about being consulted with the mayors, your mayors or mayors - I suppose - the parties and movements that give them also understand this, but only to be completely sure or built for sure, so whether from professional associations such as the Union of Cities and Communities, the Association of Regions, simply other, possibly some business associations, most probably the Chamber of Commerce, if you have any opinion, whether it is consulted or what it is, because I think it is quite, quite substantial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u77	Thank you, too. I'm currently not registering any applications. The rapporteur with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u78	That'll be quick. I just want to, because I put an amendment there, so I'd like to justify it. So I have already made the amendment to the Committee on the Environment, where I have been alerted to minor nuances. I don't know if I'm gonna get a positive opinion, but I'm not like you. I would like, Mr President, if this were a positive position, because these are mostly the things that are trying to remedy the reality that is currently here, that is, we have sorting lines, we know that there is both a packaging and a non-wrapper component on the sorting lines, and, of course, the authorized packaging companies are only paying for the part that is the packaging, because they are receiving from those manufacturers, they have to behave with the proper economy, and if they want to subsidize the sorting lines, then, of course, there should also be mention of the fact that the two components are there. I'm saying, it's more of a technical nature, and of course, if you're all from practice and you're in certain businesses, or, respectively, when you're on those top floors, you know that caring the proper economy is really important, and if you want to invest your money somewhere, you're just gonna want to see if the money really went to the packaging or where it went. So it's really my amendment that has nothing contaminated inside of it, and I'd like it to give him consent. I'm saying I modified it the way the Ministry of the Environment wanted it, and I reduced it, but it's really just the alignment of the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u79	I thank you and then ask for a reading in a detailed debate. I wonder if anyone else is applying? I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I am ending the merged debate of Parliament's press 55 and 56. Do I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor? Madam Secretary, please, final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u80	Thank you very much for this rich one, and I think it's a fruitful debate. Of course, we will answer a lot of questions in the third reading, just now I would like to talk about educational activities and decrees - yes, they are preparing, I do not have them here, of course, but they are here at the Ministry to see, or we will be ready for some cooperation. [[11.50 hours]] I returned from Stockholm 50 this morning, where much was discussed about waste, plastic waste in the oceans, so, yes, the European Union is making some kind of strategy, and it is touching the third world that is claiming it. And I was pleased, I was very pleased, indeed, I will say it again perhaps, that even the State of Israel turned to me with such a request for cooperation in the waste economy. Thank you for your attention, please take into account that this law or both of these prints already have infringement proceedings, thank you for this debate and I hope that we are heading - and thank you for your support - to proceed to the next reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u81	Thank you. With the priority right of President Schillerová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I certainly do not dare to speak to waste management, as I say, in everything, but I would have a very kind request to the Minister to respond to the questions that have fallen. I think they were all material, and my colleague Berenika Peštová, my colleague Richard Brabec, Margita Balaštíková and others, spoke here in an erudite way, and I don't want to forget anyone else. I don't think the answer should be "we'll answer at third reading." In the third reading, first of all, we should vote on the amendments and on the whole text. I understand the law is important, we will definitely support it at third reading, I look at my colleague, Berenika Peštová, that we will support it. We just wanted this debate because it's important, and I would ask if the Minister could respond to those questions, because right now, that's where it might be. I know I can't do her homework, which is why I beg her politely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u83	There is currently no debate open, i.e. only in the form of priority rights, if the Minister wants to respond, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u84	There were two questions. It was for the world's activity, so there I replied that the decrees are during processing. I don't have them here today to show them off, but we're ready to work together. The second question was why we do not pay more attention to the ban on certain plastics. This is one of those bans that actually leads to restrictions on plastic products. That's all I've got. There was a lot of debate about the amendments, so the different translators answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-005-901.u85	Thank you. This concludes the merged debate and we are going back in the programme first to House press 55, item number
