ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u1	24. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended (the House Press 346), first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. I beg you, Minister, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the Government Bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications. The aim of the proposed bill is to define a range of people with low incomes under the Electronic Communications Act in relation to the issue of so-called special prices within the universal service. This is simply a discount on the price of the tariff. The newly established range of authorised persons will aim more effectively to provide special prices for the required users so that they can use electronic communications services under favourable conditions, while allowing the State to better control the use of these special prices. The draft law therefore specifies, in contrast to the existing regulation, the address of the right to award special prices to persons with low incomes, which are newly defined as beneficiaries of the subsistence allowance. At the same time, this improves the possibility of controlling their possible abuse, where people with low incomes will no longer be shown merely by an honest statement, as has been the case so far, but by confirming that this person is the beneficiary of the subsistence allowance. In view of the urgency of the proposed legislation, in particular with regard to the social aspects of people with low incomes, I would like to ask you to discuss this draft law in a shortened procedure within the meaning of § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has briefly presented this. The point is, actually, we're here, as if by law, specifying special prices that could be described as tariff discounts. I'm sure you know. So far, it's been pumped by people with disabilities. The discount on the fare is CZK 200. Thus, with the existing legislation, which was simplified in terms of transposition, it states that it extends, in fact, that those persons with low incomes, where a factor of 2.15 times the minimum of living was applied, which is a mechanism used for the remission of payment for radio and television charges and exempts...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u5	Mr Nacher complains that he can't hear, so let me ask you, colleagues, colleagues, to keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u6	So once again - that people who reach 2.15 times the minimum of living would reach that special tariff, which is a mechanism that is already being used somewhere else, in the law of 348/2005 on radio and television charges, and that newly those with low incomes would be defined as persons who receive a living allowance, which is, in simple terms, one-time the minimum of living. In other words, the number of people is narrowing down. So if I were to lay it out to be understandable to those who didn't study the press, on the one hand, the number of those people is narrowing down, but on the other hand, it's actually simplifying and specifying how it's going to be documented. Because up until now, it is an honest statement, which can be done as an administrative problem, and now it is actually because the person receives a living allowance, and that will replace the honest statement. So recap: it would draw fewer people, and the administration would be easier. I'd like to ask here to discuss it, I've also talked to the Ministry about it for several reasons. Firstly, it must be seen that the fact, the proposal for the definition of low-income persons, is therefore narrower, narrower than what the current regulation actually provides. The moment we narrow it down, although we are improving administratively, I dare say that Members should have the opportunity to put in amendments, if necessary, which will return it and extend it to a circle of people, whether it is the multiple of 2.15 or some other. The moment we use Section 90, we don't have that option. Anyway, I'm the only one who's friendly about this. I acknowledge, say, the two main reasons why to use Section 90, that is, if we do not want to put amendments in a robust amendment, because we need to make a slight change there, that is what happened to me here in the last parliamentary term when the Labour Code would be opened, and there was some contribution for people with disabilities and by opening a robust law, it would mean that it would not end with just one change. That's one legitimate reason. The second is the time. I'd take the time here, too, 'cause the content isn't here. Here's a legitimate time to make it from 1. 1. However, colleagues, I am afraid that this legitimate reason, which I am not questioning, we are unable to follow. Because we're discussing it 16. 12., he'd still have to approve the Senate and sign the president, so he's done it since 1. I don't think I can make it. And at this point we would apply § 90 to something that just as much to 1. 1. It cannot be applied, but we would not have left out the process of putting amendments there. So as if the legitimate one -- and I agree with the Minister, a legitimate reason to speed up the discussion so that it will apply from January 1st, would work here in a moment, if this law came here, a proposal sometime in November, then it can be done, and then the 90th has a sense of time, not content. So I'm in this, and I've been openly communicating with the Ministry, and I think we should discuss this. The second reason is, and I don't know what the current situation is, if the Minister tells me, is that there was a request from the Czech Television, but in my opinion, the ERU, too, that there was a passage in the Consumer Protection Act that these out-of-court authorities would handle complaints with consumers, and there was an attempt to get it into some kind of law that is open here, which could be used in this Zeku amendment. And there, as chairman of the subcommittee, I asked if the relevant Deputy Minister of Industry would convene a meeting with the representatives of the Czech Republic, the ERU and the authorities concerned, which the blackout of the complaints concerns, that we meet and see if it is really that urgent, and if so, if we could amend it and correct it by putting it as an amendment to this amendment. So here I'd like to ask if I can have some actual information, with the fact that I'm not defending myself, as much as possible, to shorten the deadlines. But as I'm saying, whether we cut them short or even if we were in the '90s, it's from 1. We won't make it to 1. And then I'd like to know, in that case, if it's agreed with Minister Šalomoun, that we could use some exception not to make it work, because we've approved the rules here, that it's either from 1. 1. or 1. 7, so in case we cut it short and approve everything, so that maybe it would apply from 1. 2, from 1. Three and so on. But if I recall correctly, we need to talk about these things with the Minister of Legislation. So much for the opening word for this amendment to the Electronic Communications Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u7	Good noon. Hello, everyone. We've taken turns in meeting management. I thank the rapporteur for presenting the report. And now I am opening a general debate on this point. As part of the general debate, it should be heard here whether or not the veto will be used. [[Minister Síkela: They have vetoes.]] It is veto, it is vetoed that we discuss in the context of § 90 para. 2. The plaintiff is reporting, Mr. Minister. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u8	I will partly answer Mr Nacher's question, through Mr President. In case of failure to take effect from 1. 1. transitional provisions have been incorporated into the draft law to address the continuous provision of the services in question so that entitled persons are not reduced to their rights and both those persons and universal service providers have sufficient time to meet the conditions under the new legislation. However, even in this case, it is desirable that the transition state last as short as possible. And as short as possible, that's just as short as possible. A very important aspect is precisely improving the control and minimization of the abuse of this institute by not proving entitlement to special prices merely by making an honest statement. At the same time, in the context of a more precise addressing of special prices, higher use can be assumed for authorised persons, where more complicated completion of a declaration of honour falls away. Only to explain, to the Government, or to the Chamber of Deputies, was slowed down by complicated settlement of comments from inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, where, unfortunately, as is becoming common recently, fundamental comments were also made by the subjects with whom the material was pre-negotiated prior to the execution of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. And the aim of the complex discussion was precisely to balance the positive and negative effects of the proposed changes, which will ultimately, or more effectively in the proposed text, aim to provide special prices for the needy users in order to benefit from cheaper electronic communications services. [[12.10 hours]] So if the YES Members insist on the veto, then I am asking - which I am sorry, because I think that the comments too, because I do not know what other amendments you will have. As far as your question is concerned, I think that the question of the ERO, or the ČTÚ, could be resolved differently, because if we do this now, I think that we will extend the discussion until March at least, and the fact of the complaints is not enough to prolong it until March. But of course I respect that. So if the veto occurs, I would like to ask for a shortening of all time limits to the maximum possible extent permitted by the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u9	Thank you. We are still in the general debate. I ask if anyone else is applying to the general debate? Yes, I'm registering the President and the rapporteur. First rapporteur with priority rights, then President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u10	Thank you. I'll call it even. I explained it. The veto is purely now from the point of view of the matter, so that we simply put the possibility - I am not saying that the amendments are ready. At a time when any law narrows down the number of people who receive benefits in this case, Members have the opportunity to put an amendment in place and put it back in its original form, expand it and change it in any way. At the same time, I'm saying fair and square that I would respect that the more interest is the time. That's why I said I was very helpful in this, that time would replace the impossibility of sending amendments, but that would really mean if it really was here before, and then we made it from 1. 1. At this point, we have the term 1. We won't be able to make it in time. I'm prepared to shorten it to the maximum time, or to suggest a shortening, I've agreed with your colleagues, for 40 days, for 30 days, sooner, but in the meantime, those committees won't meet, so it's more about an agreement between the Ministry and the relevant committees. So for now, I suggest we cut this short for 40 days, because that's how we agreed with our colleagues. If the demand is even shorter, let's make it shorter. If the thesis that went on the microphone here is true that the complaint problem is not so crucial - and I am looking at my honored colleague, who is also a member of the Consumer Protection Sub-Committee and was at the debate - then that means that the Ministry and the ČTÚ dealt with it in some other way and this will not be taken into account here. But the situation may develop. So much for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u11	Thank you. Madam Speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I think you have some idea why I'm here. I'm going to file a veto under Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure. I have about 53 or 54 signatures from Members for the ANO movement, which I will immediately deliver to you, Mr Vice-President. I will not repeat the arguments that Patrik Nacher, who is our expert in this area, said here. We've been discussing this at the club for a long time, considering it. It would just be important not to vet if we really had a chance to make it here. Let's face it, Minister, it was filed late. The first of January is too late anyway. The only reason for the veto would be that we will not be able to submit amendments, and we want to improve the proposal. Patrik Nacher, my honored colleague, spoke of this through the Vice-President. So at this point, we will support any shortening of the deadlines. I have already discussed this with President Cogan, through you, Mr Vice-President, so we will support what will be proposed. I understand it's Christmas Eve, so it's gonna be a little more complicated than that. If it is 40 days, we will support 40 days, if in any way you are able to shorten it, we are ready, but we really want to have the opportunity to make amendments, to extend the group of people to whom it will concern, as my colleague Patrik Nacher has said. Once again, I am giving the veto to the proceedings under Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure and I am proving it by the signatures of about 53, so more than 50, Members for the ANO movement, which I will deliver to you immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-004-024.u13	Yes, thank you. Madam President, I note that you are under § 90 para. 3 raised an objection by signing at least 50 Members. I am therefore of the opinion that in this case we will continue to negotiate under § 90 para. 7. In this case, I ask, are we still in the general debate in which this objection must be raised, so I ask whether anyone else is still reporting for the general debate? No one is reporting, so I am ending the general debate. I am asking for an interest in the final words of the rapporteur or the appellant. It's not. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. In the meantime, I'm gonna get my colleagues to come because we're gonna vote. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a committee of guarantee. It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 137 Members voted in favour, 103 Members voted against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. So we will not vote on any more committees. Now I want to ask you, this has already been said in the general debate, the proposal to shorten the deadline to 40 days. So we're going to vote on shortening the time limit for discussion to 40 days. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 71 138 Members were voted in favour of 107, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. I note that we have reduced the deadline for committee discussions to 40 days. That concludes the discussion of this press for the moment. I'm done discussing item 24. The next item in our approved programme is the item
