ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u1	2. Government proposal to submit to Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal to give consent to the statement of the Agreement on the establishment of the United Institute of Nuclear Research (SÚJV) /German press 229/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we agree with this government proposal at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal - and I ask that he take the position - Mr Jan Lipavský, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and at the same time we will have to change the rapporteur. At this point, we can deal with this by voting right now. I have here that instead of Mr. Lochman, it will be Marek Benda. [[Yes.]] I've got it right. At this point, I would like to vote on this if it is at first reading, so we will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur that Marek Benda would be the rapporteur. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Thank you. Voting number six, 154 Members were enrolled, 140 were in favour, no one opposed, 14 abstained. The motion was accepted. This means that the rapporteur for first reading has been approved by Mr Marek Benda, and I would ask him to take the position where the rapporteur sits. I would now ask, under the authority of the Government, that the proposal put forward by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u2	Madam President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to represent the Minister of Education here and to present the government's material for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which the Government is presenting to the House, stating that the Government is asking for consent to the proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to terminate the membership of the Czech Republic in the international organisation of the United Institute of Nuclear Research. It's a 229 print. The United Institute of Nuclear Research is also briefly referred to as April, because it is based in the city of Dubna near Moscow. This research institute is a residue from the Warsaw Treaty and Soviet activity in Czechoslovakia, with the fact that it was established in 1956 and is actually an international organization, as established by an international treaty that brought together Soviet bloc states. This organization survived the end of the Soviet Union, and for three decades in some way, it worked in quotes on a peaceful basis. However, at a time of clear Russian aggression against Ukraine, it is not sustainable for the Czech Republic to continue to participate in the functioning of this scientific institute and to participate in any financial or human capacity in Russian nuclear research.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna jump in a little bit. I'd really like some peace in the courtroom. I would like to ask all Members, if they need anything to be dealt with, to go to the lobby. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u4	Thank you. I will also be able to vote for a gentler voice. So if, before Vrbětice and Russia's war against Ukraine, let's say our participation in April could have been some political issue that we could have argued about and had different opinions about, our government believes at this time that any participation in this is indeed a security problem. And only for the European context. This international organization also includes other states that were in the Soviet sphere of influence. Poland is now actively working to end its participation, let's say they are at a similar stage as we are here in the Czech Republic, which means they are working intensively on it. And other countries, such as Slovakia, have frozen all cooperation. That means we're not the only ones, and I think this is the right move. Since our participation in Dubny is created with the help of an international treaty, we must discuss this issue both here in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u5	I also thank you, Minister, and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading which has been approved, and this is Mr Marek Benda. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u6	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Mr Speaker, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this this this morning to be the rapporteur, because the rapporteur has been excused, but I have tried to monitor the progress of the negotiations on this Treaty in advance. It's like the plaintiff says. It is a residue actually from the Soviet Union's time, where we contribute $5.5 million a year, which is not a very small amount in a situation where Russia is in a state of war with Ukraine today, although it is not declared there of course, and at least in very narrow relations with the rest of the European Union and the states of the North Atlantic Alliance. We consider it completely pointless and counterproductive that we continue to contribute to such a research project, the results of which are really drawn only by Russia. As has been said, part of the other countries of the European Union, which are cooperating in this organisation, are preparing to speak or freeze membership, and I recommend that we - as the appellant proposes, then I will propose an accurate resolution - so that we are in line with the Senate, so that we continue to read first and at first reading we will testify and do not have to pay that amount again for this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. I will now allow myself to open a general debate in which I have no written application, but at this point I see the Member reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Jiří Strýček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u8	Hello. Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, the government is putting forward a proposal to end membership of an international organisation called the United Institute of Nuclear Research. In the current international political situation, such a step is understandable and inevitable and, of course, we will support this step under the YES movement. The war in Ukraine caused by Russia's aggression and sanctions by the international community, the attempt to isolate the aggressor and interrupt cooperation and information sharing in a number of areas lead us to this logical step - the end of international cooperation activities in the field of nuclear research. [[15.00 hours]] But it might be worth saying a few things about what this United Institute of Nuclear Research entails. It was established by the Agreement establishing the United Institute of Nuclear Research in 1956 in order to develop theoretical and experimental research in the fields of particle physics, nuclear physics, condensation physics and radiobiology. Today, this United Constitution has about 19 members. In addition to the post-Soviet republics and countries of the former Eastern bloc, these include Egypt, Cuba, Mongolia, and Vietnam. Associated members include, for example, Germany, Italy or South Africa. As mentioned above, last year, the organization managed a sum of CZK 4.5 billion, while Russia has a key position in the association, covering about 82 percent of its budget. The membership contributions of the Czech Party are between $5 million and $7 million a year. Each year, approximately 100 Czech scientists will use experimental equipment for research projects, especially in nuclear and neutron physics. The Institute of Nuclear Physics of the Czech Academy of Sciences, the Czech Technical University in Prague, Charles University, the Institute of Physics of the Czech Academy of Sciences, and the University of Palacký in Olomouc, the University of Silesia in Opava or the University of Mining. The research activity is divided into seven laboratories which have their own internal organisational structure. It also includes a university centre for the educational activities of the United Institute of Nuclear Research, which employs around 4,500 people, of which 1,200 are researchers. Another 2,000 employees are technicians and engineers. The basic experimental facilities of this institute are Nuclotron, which is an accelerator of light and heavy ions, U-400 and U-400M cyclotrons designed for synthesis of super heavy elements and light exotic cores and recently triggered DC280 within the SuperHeavy Element Factory, the pulsed neutron reactor and so on and so on. In the state of construction there is a Baikal neutron telescope and experimental equipment NICA. Computing infrastructure with Govorun supercomputer or university centre education programme of this nuclear institute also plays an important role in this United Institute of Nuclear Research. It is an instrument that is partly unique, partly available elsewhere. What must also be pointed out is that the United Institute of Nuclear Research is a contracting entity of commercial and industrial contracts, some of which are also directed towards Czech entities, although these contracts are not strictly linked to membership. The Czech Republic is still one of the most active members of the SÚJV. As has already been said, the United Institute of Nuclear Research has also collaborated with the Western counterpart of CERN in the Russian invasion of Ukraine, who is more concerned with particle physics. CERN has a stronger economic background and larger instruments, the Institute uses a wider range of technologies. As I said at the beginning of my speech, in the current international political situation, I consider the termination of the Czech Republic's membership in this organization inevitable. On the other hand, I wanted to outline, of course, that everything wasn't all wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u9	Thank you, too. Let me remind you that we are in a general debate. I will ask - no one is reporting in writing - if anyone else is reporting from place to place to the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna sing. I'll ask if there's any interest in the final word from the plaintiff of the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Is there an interest in the final word? It's not. The rapporteur's side? There's interest, yes, okay. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u10	Perhaps not the final word, but only if we have the same notes, Madam Vice-President, from the legislative department. This resolution should read as follows: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 229 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' [[- Yes.]] And two: "Gives consent to the termination of the Agreement on the Establishment of the United Institute of Nuclear Research of the SÚJV." If we have the same notebooks, then it's no problem, we can vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-002-002.u11	Yes, we do. Thank you. At this point, I'm interested in checking you out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. I'll ask all of you to sign up with your voting cards. So now we have to decide according to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I have not received an objection from two Members' clubs or 50 Members against this, so I would like to make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 229 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' We all know what we're going to vote on. I am now opening the vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand? Thank you all. Voting number seven, 139 Members were signed in, 139, no one opposed, no one stayed. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I will now allow myself to launch a detailed debate. I'm going to ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, I'm ending a detailed debate. I'll ask if there's an interest in the final word from the plaintiff, does that mean the Minister of Foreign Affairs? Interested? It's not. I'm gonna ask if there's an interest on the part of the rapporteur? It's not. So we will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the statement of the Agreement establishing the United Institute of Nuclear Research of the SÚJV'. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote number 8 has been signed up for 139 Members, for 139, no one has opposed, no one has stayed. I am of the opinion that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I am done discussing this bill. I would like to thank the appellant, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the rapporteur at this time. And now, according to the approved agenda, we will proceed to item number
