ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u1	8. Government bill on support for low-emission vehicles through public procurement and public passenger transport services /house print 160/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister for Digitisation and the Minister for Local Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u2	Good evening. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already announced in the morning that this law or this transposition is necessary again to discuss, once again, it is one of the small rests. It's actually a draft law on the promotion of low-emission vehicles. It is a purely implementing legislation in relation to Directive of the European Parliament of 20 June 2019 amending the Directive on the promotion of clean, energy efficient road vehicles. The directive requires Member States to ensure a certain proportion of those low-emission vehicles, for the future, including emission-free but low-emission vehicles in the proposal, when purchasing new road vehicles through public procurement. The draft Law on Support for Low Emission Vehicles is intended to ensure this. The transposition period has already expired on 2 August last year and the Czech Republic is still not properly fulfilling its obligations, which therefore result from it. The Czech Republic is in imminent danger of significant financial sanctions on the part of the EU. The transposition was properly carried out in the vast majority of EU Member States. Together with the Czech Republic, the proceedings are being conducted only against Bulgaria, Hungary, Cyprus and Sweden. The proceedings against the Czech Republic for failure to fulfil obligations are at the last stage, i.e. before the judicial stage of this procedure, and therefore if we do not accept this transposition quickly and we do not notify the Commission of the appropriate measures within the prescribed period, that is until 6 September of this year, the Commission may bring an action against the Czech Republic to the European Court of Justice, which would, in accordance with Art. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. 3 The TFEU also included a proposal for the imposition of a financial penalty. Once the action is brought, the financial penalty is inevitable, because even the fact that we are discussing this implementation by the Chamber of Deputies will not prevent the imposition of the penalty. I have yet to write a letter to the European Commission that we are working with this now at second reading, that we are therefore trying to implement, even if we are this late. Since July last year, since the implementation deficit has been here, there has been a government resolution that has responded precisely to the transposition deficit and introduced the obligations in question for the first period in force since 2 August 2021, i.e. after the expiry of the transposition period. In essence, the government's regulation was directed towards contracting authorities, which could have been binding by the Government's resolution, so it is only those directly subordinate to the government of the Ministry and the organisation, and it has imposed this obligation on them and since then it has been fulfilled. We are this... or it was a certain message to the European Commission, but it does not consider it a proper transposition and it does not recognise it. It is not a legislation to implement the transposition, so the resolution of the government that it was may help us to meet the criteria by 2025, but this does not help us in the current non-notification procedure. [[18.30 hours]] I have repeatedly stressed that, in the case of the bill, it is a pure transposition, or obligations in this bill contained in it do not tighten the requirements laid down by European law, on the contrary, we or the previous government, while working with the bill, have worked to ensure that the interpretation or those groups to which it relates, those vehicles and their use, actually have the maximum possible exceptions. I've already talked about this before that it's not really about having ambulances and fighter police cars for flashlights, as they say, it's not about interurban long-distance traffic or anything like that. I would just now sum up some of the arguments on the issues raised in the general debate - only briefly. Frequently, comments were made on the limited availability of alternative fuels or on the financial intensity of the operation of these low-emission vehicles or the availability of vehicles and components for production. Taking into account the cost of purchasing and operating costs, electromobility itself also has economic benefits over the longer term. We cannot look at this through the optics of the current situation where prices of different energies are also moving in relation to how war is developing in Ukraine or how some countries are building, say, a more diversified infrastructure. However, the possibility to meet implementation requirements for low-emission share in competing and purchased vehicles is up to 2025 and the emission-free part up to 2023, so even the current crisis in Ukraine, if implemented properly, does not actually bring us into any difficult situation. On the contrary, diversification of the fleet should reduce risks in the future. We can also look at this in some specific cases where a part of public transport is gasaged at the moment, part of it is electrified, part is classical diesel buses, and you see, at some point, depending on how energy prices develop as a result of the war, the advantage can be volatile in the case of fossil fuels - and I mentioned this in the morning, we simply cannot produce oil in contrast to electricity, so on the contrary, the classic share can be a certain handicap. We are dealing with the increase in prices throughout the economy, the price of vehicles and internal combustion engines, the price of fuel, and therefore the operating costs of these cars. I would also like to say that European legislation in relation to emission reduction is likely to be more stringent in the future, so I think that it will be a gradual path, as predicted by this transposition for 2005 and 2030, that it can be prudent not to accumulate any obligations that result from our commitments already approved by the previous governments against the EU. I also mentioned in the morning how this concerns carriers that provide public services. If you look at the details of this transposition, there are individual classes, it disproves a number of arguments that may have been raised in the debate by the ignorance of this legislation. Of course, questions relating to the adoption of the Low Emission Vehicle Support Act have been discussed on committees. I firmly believe that we have managed to discuss the most pressing problems that are met by this requirement both in the public sector and at the level of future costs, and I would like to ask that this transposition law be approved as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u3	Thank you. I merely recall that we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee and the Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 160/1 to 3. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Stržínek, take the floor. Do we see him here? [[He's not in the O.R.]] I think I see a change here, thank you. Mr Robert králíček will replace the original rapporteur, Mr Robert Stržínek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u4	Mr President, hello. Colleagues, colleagues, good day too, Minister. I would represent my colleague, Mr Stržínek, and I would read the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development from its 10th meeting, which took place on 1 September, on the Government's bill on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services, House press 160: "The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 10th meeting following the reasoning of the draft by Minister Ivan Bartoš, Minister for Regional Development, following Mr Robert Stržínek's report and following the debate adopted a resolution adopting: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the press 160 in the submitted text, II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution, III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the Chair of the Chamber of Deputies." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u5	Thank you and I would now like to ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, who will probably be represented by the President, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in this committee and of any possible amendments. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u6	Yes, thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I will read to you the 80th resolution of the Economic Committee of the 14th meeting of 1 September 2022 on the Government Bill on Support for Low Emission Vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services, House press No 160: "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of the Deputy Minister for Regional Development Gergelová Gergelová Šteigrová, Mr Ondřej Lochman's report and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House Press 160 as amended by the Government Bill, II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law, III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this proposal in the Economic Committee, IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic," which I also did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u7	Thank you, and before I open the general debate, I have several apologies to read. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová from 6 pm, for work reasons, Mrs Helena Válková from 17.30 to 19 for work reasons, Mr Jan Volný from 17.45 for health reasons and Mr Marian Jurečka from 17.30 for work reasons. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Kubíček is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for his detailed interpretation, but I will return to what I said here at first reading. I understand that this law needs to be passed, this implementation of the European Union to be done, but I have asked and asked here, and I will do it again on the Economic Committee to find a solution by 2025, because it sounded very nice here with the fact that we do not have to do it by 2025, we will do it in 2025, and that we are able to produce electricity. But I have pointed out certain obstacles and certain externalities that prevent it. This concerns both the public transport of trolleybus and the public transport of electric buses and other related transports, because we forgot to expect that passenger electric transport should be encouraged. And I'm asking how we're going to do it, and I'm asking the minister here - maybe he doesn't remember - to quantify any anticipated electricity consumption and some resources to do it. [[18.40 hours]] So far, we in the Czech Republic say that we are self-sufficient, even though the market works in a special way and we forward it to ourselves through other states, but in any case there will be a shortage, because perhaps the gas sources for electricity production will not be effective yet, and we said something about producing electricity from photovoltaics, especially on family houses. I drew attention to this at our meeting in Dukovany, where the economic committee was sitting and where we discussed the energy tariff, and we came across this issue and this issue mainly concerns the outlets produced by this electricity into the network. There was this idea -- they're great ideas and they're a little bit utopian, I'm gonna cheer them up -- and it's really some community energy, some island systems, but we're running into one problem, because we've seen ourselves in Germany, and I'm sure you all know that Germany owns the city's power grids, which, of course, doesn't apply in the Czech Republic, because we have a few big players and some small systems to transfer, let's say, in some small factories. And the question was, who would finance the reinforcement of the power grids and so on, so I was told by the Deputy Minister that it should be done by those who own the power grids. Well, of course, that's not in their interest, because it's a cargo and that cargo has to be paid. If we tell each other that they're gonna make money on us for two years now, and then they're gonna jump into this community energy, and they're gonna do it, well, it's a disadvantage for them. Community energy should actually prefer production facilities for cities and villages, companies, citizens and so on, they don't dissect that, and in global we pay for some kind of transfer, but that's not the added value anymore, because what we're going to talk about, they're simultaneously transporting and selling with some margin. The shipping margin doesn't have to be that high. So I ask, how will the state help to develop these transmission networks and the pinpoint of these electrical energy approaches? If memory does not confuse me, it was said that so far about 4 percent of photovoltaics are not connected to the central network, and therefore they must only be used for their own consumption and the excess electricity must be carried out so-called aimlessly into some heat pump or into some heating water and is simply not the outlet back. And we're talking about a tenth of the planned photovoltaic performance for family homes. And if it's ten times more, then we're also going to increase the unconnected electrical energy. It's a bit of a shame to make that energy into some water. So I assume, Minister, that you will be preparing some programs so that we can make it in time to strengthen the networks so that we can produce enough electricity and not waste it. And it would be pretty good, and if I could ask you to do that - it's not about the law now that we wouldn't let him go - if you could try to get somewhere to quantize the consumption for the intended operation. It's somehow calculated there, you can get some data from big cities, you can do some quantification. I'd like to thank you very much for that. I guess that's it for me. Of course, I'm not opposed to being held back, because I understand the impending impeachment, and I'm just asking you to grant me my wish. [[Infringement?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u9	Thank you. Mr Adamec is reporting to the general.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I must say that we on the Economic Committee have taken it so that we do not want to cause infringement that, of course, it is not in the interests of the Czech Republic and our citizens. On the other hand, the debate was held here, and I would not be completely calm. Here is one big problem that the Minister actually deals with the law on public procurement in his competence, but it follows up on a lot of issues that fall within the gesture of completely different ministries. My colleague Kubíček was talking about networks. I'd just like to point out that we don't send electricity across borders, we actually send it to each other directly, except the prices are a little different than we used to. And let me give you an example: we managed to get electric buses and charging stations in our city by agreeing with the local power plant, and the wires lead directly to the power plant without an intermediary, which is ideal. I'd argue with the fact that we have enough electricity, that we have a surplus and that we know how to make it. Oh, yeah, today. And when we're talking about oil, I think it's a little bit like the '70s when I went to school and they told me that oil, or oil, we're gonna figure out that we're gonna have to deal with replacement fuels. I want to point out that it isn't. We have enough electricity for some year, a assumption of about 2032 or what it is, but I have to say it's for current consumption, and that consumption is going to change significantly. This has to be said, it is already happening within the context of problems with Russian gas in general, so it all comes here. And I have to say, there are other things that need to be said hard. Have you ever tried to buy an electric bus? Well, I do. I bought four once, through the council. The price of the electric bus is incredible, the short - 27 million crowns, they made it in Plzeň. The fact that they delivered it late, because it didn't really happen, that's the other side of it, but it did. Now, take this electric bus's life span is calculated on some kind of depreciation value, but in the middle of that bus's life, you're gonna get one unpleasant thing -- you're gonna run out of batteries. And now there's two problems. It's one thing to buy new batteries that cost more than the price of the bus today, more than half. That's one big problem. And then here comes the nerudic question, where to with them, the old batteries? That's another problem I don't think is much to worry about at the moment. I'd be careful to say we have enough electricity. It won't be, electricity will be a problem, because by electrifying the whole of Europe, thanks to the problems we have, I think we're going to run out of the surplus considerably sooner than we thought. That's the first thing. The second thing is the cost of electric buses. We can say, if they're made in standard terms, the price will go down in serial production, but it's not yet. And actually, all attempts to electrify traffic in cities end up being either a subsidy, then it's bought, and then the operating costs -- when you count, you find that it's not a hit either, and you actually have to subsidize it. So the whole system is a little bit messy economically, let's face it. I understand that we simply want to apply the Green Deal by 2050, it is still a long way away, but we are currently in an energy crisis and even in an economic crisis, let's face it, inflation is furious here and, in fact, energy, if the war in Ukraine does not end and if the European Union does not get a sense with Germany, it will also be a big problem. So let's not curse ourselves that 2025 is still a long way off. Well, it's not, it's in a minute, it's the year 2022 over, so it's in three years and a couple of months, three or four months, and the problem will be here. I think that common sense should prevail, that everything in moderation. And ordering that we have to have 20 percent of these machines seems to me like science fiction at a time when we're just fighting energy here and we all actually feel the consequences of the problem, and eventually every meeting, every press inquiry today ends at energy prices, when everyone says some solution. In Europe, it turns out that there is no ideal solution, because it is new, everyone is trying it somehow. All governments are in trouble because opposition Members in all the countries of the European Union keep saying that it is little, late, wrong. But let's remember one thing. We're just putting out a problem here, we're not solving the system, and we just can't deal with it this way in the future. If we can put out the system now, with the energy prices being subsidized, is there a question, will we always do that? You don't want to do that. I hope the opposition doesn't mean that either. We need to tune the system in so that it just works, as they say, by self-locking, and the market can handle it. And subsidies may be for some purchases from the beginning, but if it's still a subsidy system, it turns out to be uncompetitive, non-lifeless and deadly for all the countries of the European Union in the future. [[18.50 hours]] I've always said here that Green Deal is the right idea, except the road to it is a bit steep and too fast, respectively, steep in the reverse direction. We're going after a raspberry and we're going really fast, and we're actually making some kind of economic barrier that, in a while, Asia is going to beat us like a raspberry, because they just don't see it that way, and business is the main thing for them. I'd like to tell everyone who thinks I'm not interested in the environment, that they're wrong. We're all concerned about having a beautiful landscape that we're going to hand over to our children in order and in better shape than we have from our ancestors, but it just has to be done with reason. And it seems to me that he has vanished here, as we Čech say, a healthy common sense. I, too, have said on the Economic Committee that we will not block this, but it is a big topic for reflection and for large discussions within European structures. And please, let's not let the oil go uncomfortably - I've heard that 50 years ago that we're able to... do everything ourselves. It just won't be in this case, we'll have to combine all the resources in some way and gradually work our way up, but gradually, to environmentalize transport. By the way, I'm still hearing how much percent of the share is made up of car exhausts in air pollution, but that percentage is terribly, terribly low. I'd rather not say the numbers here so some editor doesn't paint me again, that ships release other stinks than cars, but I'm not gonna say it. I'm just not gonna educate you like this anymore, but it's true, it's real. So I get it. We're afraid we'll get a fine that's not entirely small. I suggest you approve. If anyone has any amendments, I would say, legislative technical nature or any ideas that make it easier for us, I welcome them here, but I don't think we have them. And I am very, very sad at the approval of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u11	Thank you and we have one in the debate yet, and this is Mr Kolovratník. I'm just reminding you, we're done at 7:00. Yes, I see a priority right here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Now, after a quick consultation, and now I'm sorry, maybe I haven't been to the SPD yet, there's been an agreement here by the majority of the members of the MPs that we would finish this point, the second reading. Thank you. Well, the end of the meeting... [[Objection from the SPD club.]] So I'm gonna give the co-worker Kolovratník room, and then I'm gonna turn myself in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u13	Mr Kolovratník is duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u14	Thank you. Now I don't know what the deals will be or won't be. I will try to speak in a matter of fact at second reading here to the law and in my speech I will follow up on Roman Kubíček, who assessed the situation very objectively, factually, as the authorities, the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities see, in short, those affected by this issue. And I must say that I myself am surprised - very well and in a positive - by speaking to the Chairman of the Economic Committee, Ivan Adamec, because he has spoken very thoroughly and very factually to the law, and it is probably not so common here in the House, but here as opposition and coalition, we are in complete agreement. And I mean, you know, first I share my personal feelings, experiences, experiences. I am not hiding in my political life or in my public appearances by being a pro-European person, rooting for the European Union, it is no secret about me. Sometimes I am also considered, and it is now said with a little exaggeration and lightening, as a black sheep among my colleagues in the framework of the YES movement, but I always say in these public debates: let us not make excuses for Brussels, let us not make excuses for Europe. We are Europe, we can influence it. And unfortunately, for those who oppose me in these debates, today I have to say that it doesn't always work that way and that some things are being ordered to us, they are being sent to us, and we can't do that much with them. I am saying this because when I read, he studied the details here on the subject, so it is a topic that has been going on since 2019, i.e. since the previous government, and this directive, this law, which we now have here and which we are discussing, came to us despite the disapproval of the Czech Republic and the Czech representation against the adoption of this directive. But in short, we must accept it and live with it if we say that we are democrats and we respect the democratic decisions of the majority, so in this case too, it was the democratic decision of European countries where the Czech Republic was simply overvoted, as were the five states, including Germany, which was together with us at the time to support gas, LNG, gas buses, which we were at that time far ahead of the Ukrainian, before the energy crisis considered ecological and which are simply no longer ecological today. Just for comparison, for example, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, the very individual states were assessed individually. We, from the point of view of GDP, were similar to Slovenia, but at the time the European Commission evaluated - an illustration example - the density of population, and perhaps it set us higher targets than Slovenia. But it's a reality that we have to accept despite our disagreement. The law really works - I guess I don't have to work with the numbers - with the percentages that are de facto ordered to us. But you need to say the reality of today at second reading. I am a member of the Supervisory Board of the Transport Company in Pardubice. Our Pardubice transport company now has the honour or prestige that its director is also President of the Association of Transport Enterprises of the Czech Republic and I asked him before today, just to give you an idea, colleagues, for a very brief overview of the impact of energy on transport companies. In the sum of the costs of electricity worked out of the information available - and now I am not playing politics, I am not criticizing the government for whether the ceiling is high, I am not commenting on it, but I am merely stating the facts from transport companies throughout the Czech Republic, there are 22 - so friends, according to current predictions the impacts on electricity will be 3.3 billion crowns higher - 3.3 billion crowns higher than this year! Moreover, transport companies estimate another 1 billion for natural gas costs. So they're coming up by almost 5 billion just on energy compared to this year or last year. Now try to project for yourself how and what it will do to them, if suddenly these obligations come upon them in purchasing low-emission, emission-free and so on and so on vehicles. It will be a really big problem and I think Roman Kubíček's appeal was directed very well towards the government, towards the Minister. And that's not just Minister Bartoš for the MMR, this must be, colleagues, your cooperation between the MMR, between the Ministry of Industry, of course, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance. We are at second reading, I have no amendment here. I see an agreement that we want to end this point, so I certainly don't want to talk too empty here, but please really in a good way, I appeal to my colleagues from the government, if we move on with this law, so that we don't get caught up in the impeachment, infringement - it's late in the evening, so I apologize for the inaccurate pronunciation - so please and I appeal, let's go back to the law or this issue so that it doesn't turn out to the transport companies, so it doesn't affect the self-government, where politically from the opposition or the coalition sits, our colleagues work, and they might have big problems with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u15	Thank you and I am ending the general debate. [[This is Mr. Excellent.]] I think we can make it. I am ending the general debate. Final words? They're not. I am opening a detailed debate. I see he's here... [[Informal negotiation.]] Yes. I thought we could do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In order to actually comply with the rules of this honourable House, by agreement of all the Members' Clubs of this House, we would be negotiating today in the negotiation of a point which is now open, that is to say, the House's press 160. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u17	Yes. I started a detailed debate and in a detailed debate, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would only like to respond to the fact that Mr Stržínek had a substitute rapporteur. He has a recorded amendment law, doesn't he? [[A suggestion?]] Which is purely leg tech, isn't it? The Government's Bill on the Promotion of Emission Vehicles is amended in Section 12 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 112 point (a) of CRR. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. Correction of the error in the reference to the Act on Liability for Infractions. It is merely a harmonisation of the wording with the reference contained in the Public Procurement Act. That's where this one was corrected by Law No. 417/2021 and it hasn't been written into the text. So here's Mr Robert Stržínek's amendment, and I'm signing up for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-008-008.u19	Thank you. Ambassador králíček no more? No one else is reporting to the detailed debate, which is why I am ending the detailed debate and ending the second reading of this proposal. And since it's 19 o'clock, thank you all for joining us today. And all I'm saying is that I'm interrupting the 35th meeting until Friday, 30 September, by 9 o'clock. All I'm saying is that on Thursday, September 29th, at 9 o'clock, the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin, and I wish you all a good evening.
