ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended, Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to environmental information, as amended, and Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws (the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation), as amended /German press 222/ - first reading With the mandate of the Government, the proposed proposal will be presented by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, fellow Members, allow me to introduce a bill amending the law on free access to information, the law on the right to information on the environment and the law on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation. This proposal primarily serves to implement the transposition of the European Open Data Directive and the re-use of public sector information. I think that even the previous government, and I do not mean that offensively now, knows that the transposition period expired last year, in the summer months, so this law should have been part of our legislative system. Unfortunately, this has not happened, we are trying to remedy the situation and we are trying to remedy it quite quickly, as the Czech Republic is currently facing real sanctions from the European Union. What does the law concern, and in what areas? First, it concerns the extension of the scope of compulsory entities to public undertakings, which are State or self-controlled undertakings active in sectors such as energy or transport. A fundamental change. Secondly, the introduction of an obligation to publish in the form of open data so-called dynamic data, such as data from traffic or weather sensors. Thirdly, facilitating the digitalisation of cultural resources, such as old prints, by means of contracts allowing more efficient involvement of the private sector. Fourthly, the adaptation of access to research data developed in the context of scientific research supported by public funds. The proposal also contains other changes aimed at eliminating the most pressing problems of current application practice: ensuring greater protection for public institutions, which are companies moving in a competitive environment, with the aim of protecting, in particular, key state-owned companies. Second, to supplement explicit legislation, to provide information on salaries and remuneration in response to the Constitutional Court's case-law. Third, protection of information relating to critical infrastructure or arbitration and similar management. Fourth, protection against abuse of the right to information, i.e. from so-called bullying requests, with which the local sphere has a great deal of experience. Fifthly, the disclosure of information from the annual reports on the provision of information in one place. Sixth changes in the process area allowing faster provision of anonymous information and faster processing of appeals. I believe that the proposal tabled is balanced in terms of protecting both the right to information and the protection from its abuse and also responding to the deterioration of the security situation associated with the need for greater protection of certain public sector information. I would therefore like to ask you to support this proposal and, in view of the need for the early completion of the transposition of the European directive - once again, I say, the transposition deadline expired last summer - I consider it necessary to discuss the proposal quickly on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. That is why I would like to propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u3	Thank you. Before I invite the rapporteur, only technically did Mr Roman Kubíček report that he was voting with a replacement card number 31. And from the cabinet of Minister Lipavský note is until 11:30 for work reasons. And now I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Alena Schillerová, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, let me - he has already said a whole series of information to the Minister, but I may have a different point of view, maybe I will repeat something, but let me sum up the facts from my news report. The purpose of the draft law translated is the transposition of Directive 2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on open data and re-use of public sector information. Next, in my speech, I will refer to the word of the directive. Indeed, the deadline for transposition, as the Minister said, was set in the Czech legal order by 17 July 2021. This is a draft law which was drafted by the Ministry of the Interior in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for 2020. It was approved by the Government's resolution of 29 March 2021 number 318 and the Chamber of Deputies submitted the proposal as a House press of 1194, where it did not, however, pass through the first reading. The proposal is therefore tabled again for approval. Given that this is a draft law for the implementation of European Union law, which the Chamber of Deputies failed to approve by the end of the parliamentary term, and which is based on the Government-approved form of Parliamentary press number 1194, the then President of the Legislative Council of the Government, Marie Benešová, established pursuant to Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 1 of the Government's legislative rules that the comment procedure will not be carried out on this draft law. This was established by letter dated 16 September 2021. [[9.20 hours]] As regards the brief content of the proposal. The Act on Free Access to Information constitutes a general provision within the Czech rule of law for the provision of information by the state, local authorities and so-called public institutions. It shall be followed in all cases, unless otherwise specified in the specific Regulation. The special law may regulate the provision of information on a particular section comprehensively, such as Act No. 123/1998 Coll., on the right to environmental information, as amended. In the case of environmental information, this is lex specialis. Due to this special regulation, it is therefore technically necessary to make changes in two special regulations, which are the law on the right to information on the environment and the Act on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation. The specific changes introduced by the present law are as follows: Firstly, there is an extension of the scope of compulsory bodies compared to existing compulsory bodies, which are State authorities, local authorities and their authorities and public institutions, public undertakings which are controlled by the State and for which it is explicitly required by the transposition European directives. These include undertakings and commercial companies in the transport, air, rail or ship sectors, and selected public services, gas, heating, electricity, water and oil, gas and solid fuels sectors, as well as certain postal services in which a State authority, a local authority, its authority or a public institution may exercise, directly or indirectly, a dominant influence on the basis of ownership in that legal person or the rules governing it. Secondly, the draft law also contains new provisions, namely § 8c, on information on the income of natural persons. According to him, a compulsory body, a public institution, a local government unit or a public undertaking shall, according to the new definition, provide information on the amount of income of a person who has provided or provides public funds having the character of income from dependent activities or functional benefits under the Income Tax Act, of which: (a) first, to a public official to whom they have been subject or are subject to obligations under the Conflict of Interest Act, second, to advisers of the President of the Republic, member of the Government, deputy to a member of the Government or head of a central administrative office whose head is not a member of the Government, thirdly to a member of its statutory, management, supervisory or supervisory authority; (b) or where the applicant demonstrates a public interest in providing information on the level of income of that person and, in the individual case, that public interest outweighs the interest in protecting that information. For those who are not explicitly mentioned in point (a) - they will therefore be managers, officials and the like - so that the so-called proportionality test will be carried out there. If not completed, the information shall continue to be provided in an anonymous form. Manager's salary, one, two, and the same as it has been so far. Information on the amount of income of persons referred to in (a) or persons referred to in (b) when the proportionality test is met shall be provided to the extent of the name, surname, functional, working or other similar classification and the amount of public funds to which entitlement has been incurred. Note - so far, information on salaries has been provided on the basis of the case law of the Czech courts. It basically worked that way because there was some sort of administrative practice created here given by the interpretation of the courts. However, the interpretation was often complex, unclear, and basically everyone treated it differently, individually. This means that the proposed provision will clearly unify practice and set clear transparency rules. For a further proposal, it extends the range of exceptions to the obligation to publish information. The mandatory entity does not provide information - and this is often the subject of various disputes - if its provision significantly or directly threatens the protection of critical infrastructure. It is defined by a crisis law or has been created or obtained in direct connection with a judicial, arbitration or similar procedure, even before it is initiated, and its provision may jeopardise the equality of the parties to such proceedings. Similarly, it is not necessary to provide information where the effort to obtain information is to exert pressure on the person to whom the information relates or if the applicant wishes to impose disproportionate burdens on the obliged entity, such as submitting requests for information to a larger number of obliged entities without any apparent content of the required information. An obliged entity may refuse a request for information if it does not have the requested information and if it is not obliged to have it legally. This shall not apply where the obliged entity can obtain the required information on the basis of simple operations from other information that the obliged entity has. Further, a central register of annual reports is established as an information system of public administration which serves to publish annual reports which have an obligation to issue mandatory bodies by 1 year each year. 3. The Central Registry administrator is the Ministry of the Interior. For another, the proposal explicitly regulates access to so-called research data, data as a specific category of documents produced in scientific research supported by public funds, namely the results of the scientific detection process - experiments, surveys and so on. For another, the proposal also contains a number of technical provisions relating to the method of publication of open data or the obligation of obliged entities to register information which they are obliged to publish as open data in the National Catalogue of Open Data maintained by the Ministry of the Interior. Next, the proposal also includes a modification of so-called high-value data files to be made available free of charge to the public. It is geospace data, Earth observation and the environment, data from meteorology, ownership of companies, mobility and more. Now allow me to define the changes compared to the original Parliamentary press of 1194. Some provisions of the draft law, which was not merely a transposition of the directive, were abandoned. Thus, in the present proposal, compared to the original Parliamentary press, 1194 was resigned from the attempt to include other legal entities established or established to meet needs of general interest which are not of an industrial or commercial nature. The only difference between the current adjustment and the current proposal in this respect is thus the extension of mandatory entities to so-called public transport, energy and mining enterprises. The original House Print 1194 defined compulsory bodies which, under this law, provide information relating to its activities as a first (a) state authority, (b) local government unit, (c) legal person established by law, (d) legal person whose founder or founder is a State, a local authority unit, a legal person established by law or another legal person pursuant to this point 2, or those persons jointly, and secondly established or established for a specific purpose consisting in satisfying needs of general interest which are not of an industrial or commercial nature, and, thirdly, financed mainly by a State, a regional body, a legal person established by law or another legal person pursuant to this point or jointly, or subject to the management supervision of such persons, or in which more than half of the members are appointed in its administrative, management or supervisory body; (c) a public undertaking. Thus, the definition of a compulsory body according to the House press 1194 was wider by point (d) than the current proposal. [[9.30 hours]] It is also necessary to consider as satisfying the needs of general interest which are neither industrial nor commercial in nature, activities the task of which is to ensure the State or local authorities, municipalities and regions. While these activities may be carried out on a business basis, where appropriate, in order to obtain profits under conditions of certain competition, in a particular case it is not the primary objective of achieving profit, but of providing services for residents and their providers, which does not merely act as competitors. Typical examples of such activities can be the provision of social services, education, shipments and disposal of waste, health care and so on. However, these activities do not normally fulfil the existing definition of a mandatory entity according to a new proposal. Part of the transposition of the directive has already been implemented under Act No. 261/2020 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with further electronization of public authorities' procedures, which amended, among other things, the Act on Free Access to Information. This amendment introduced the obligation of publication of publicly available information in the registers, which are kept by law in the quality of open data, or standard publication of open data. Some of the changes contained in the current proposal are then directly linked to this change. I would now like to give my opinion on this after this summary of content, and I would like to say that, given its transpositional nature, consent can be given to the bill. The deadline for its implementation actually expired in July 2021, which means that its rapid adoption as a minimum of that directive is necessary. However, the question of the possible debate in plenary is why the Ministry of the Interior has changed the definition of a mandatory entity which is now narrower than that presented by the previous government in the Chambers of Press 1194, and thus falls out of it by certain entities established or established to meet the needs of general interest which are not of an industrial or commercial nature, unless they fulfil the conditions as defined by the current one. This means that it will not be services in the field of transport, energy or mining. It is clear that the proposal now corresponds to the minimum required by the directive, but does not address the existing interpretation and application problems associated with the concept of a public institution under the infolaw. The case-law of the General Courts, but also of the Constitutional Court, is volatile and is currently difficult to overcome, which is very difficult to assess, for example, whether a company providing public services in the field of health or culture with a qualified relationship to the State or other public-law corporation has an obligation to provide information on its activities. This also puts the exercise of the public right to information guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms at risk. The House's press 1194 aimed to eliminate to a large extent the interpretation and application problems described when it extended the definition of mandatory entities to legal entities established or established to meet the needs of general interest in fulfilling, of course, other conditions within the meaning of point (d) above. However, the current proposal abandons this intention, which poses a problem not only for the authorities of application practice but also for the constitutional requirements for effective application of the right to information. The new proposal chooses a path that is more comfortable for the petitioner to avoid difficult dialogue and finding the right material solution, that is, redefining a mandatory entity, but which is ultimately a loss to all involved citizens. In the case of Section 8 (c), which is also basically a new provision compared to the House of Press 1194, it can be argued that it may constitute a conflict with constitutional order. The Constitutional Court's case-law, in particular the so-called salary finding, the file mark 4US1378/16, has so far demanded that the so-called proportionality test be carried out to measure the right to the privacy of the recipient of public funds, on the one hand, and the public's right to information, on the other hand, for cases in principle of all groups of such beneficiaries. A constitutionally permissible exception could be cases where it is already prima facie clear that the proportionality test would be against the benefit of the data subject. This was in line with the original diction contained in the Parliaments of the Press 1194, when there was no distinction between categories of employees, and in the context of the Constitutional Court's case law, the proportionality test was always carried out in practice. However, the proposed legislation excludes the implementation of the proportionality test for, inter alia, all public officials under the Conflict of Interest Act. This includes not only the state leaders, for which such an adjustment could be justified, but also, for example, not high-ranking government and self-government officials. In the case of such persons, information on the amount of the person's income is to be provided without further delay, that is without the implementation of the text of proportionality and without the applicant showing a public interest in the provision of information. It is very questionable whether such a general provision of information on the incomes of all categories of public officials under the Act on Conflict of Interest would actually pass the proportionality test if they were carried out. In any event, such a mechanism does not, at first sight, meet the requirements expressed by the Constitutional Court in a salary finding, since it replaces the implementation of the proportionality test by an automation which does not allow an individual assessment of the existence and seriousness of the public interest to provide information and therefore necessarily leads to unfair consequences in some cases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. It's technology again. With a replacement card number 27, Mrs Věra Adámková votes. And a request has arrived for an apology from a member of the Taťána Malá today between 11 and 22 hours until the end of the meeting day due to a doctor's visit. I am now opening a general debate in which the President of the Jakub Michálek MP has signed up with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues. After a long time, the first amendment is tabled to the Chamber of Deputies, which will really increase transparency as promised by the government in its programming declaration. The basic guidelines of the amendment are: firstly, greater certainty regarding the provision of information on salaries, which is a matter that has been criticized for a long time, that even in the case of senior civil servants, the information was not provided, that there were litigations. We saw it, for example, at the Office of the President of the Republic. And I am sorry that in the intelligence report that we have just heard, the rapporteur believes that an individual assessment with a proportionality test should remain for all public officials as well. On the contrary, we as submitters have leaned towards this solution, that we will increase the degree of security, and that for those who are subject to the rules under the Act on Conflict of Interest, to statutory, supervisory and similar other bodies, there will indeed be the provision of information. We consider this more transparent than to continue to use the proportionality test. This will remain only for entities which are not explicitly calculated in the law. [[9.40 hours]] Another major change is the extension of the group of obliged entities. The petitioners here actually relied on what already works, what is contained in the Constitutional Court case-law, in the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court. It is basically the implementation of the Prague Airport finding, which will continue to be evaluated by meeting the individual criteria as stated by the Supreme Administrative Court in its case law. What remains today is that a 100%-owned entity, which is essentially owned by the public sector, remains a mandatory entity according to a hundred-sixth time. And if we are talking about entities that are owned by a smaller percentage but are controlled, they will be assessed for meeting the criteria of a public undertaking according to the provisions of the law or the directive. Of course, at the time we expanded the group of obliged entities, we also had to focus on protecting the competitiveness of the companies that operate on the market, and that is why there is also the insurance that mandatory entities are only in the field of activities that do not concern them, which cannot endanger them in competition. Another part of the law concerns strengthening the functionality of the information order, because from the point of view of the application of the information order that we approved in the previous parliamentary term, it has become clear that it does not work quite ideally because it allows mandatory entities who do not want to provide information for practically no reason to cause the state of unreviewability of the decision, and this is now preceded by setting out the possibility for the appeal body to issue a call, on the basis of which the mandatory body will be obliged to state all the reasons for which the request should be rejected and therefore avoid the situation of unreviewability. If the challenge is not met, we have the administrative rules and standard instruments to deal with the situation. So this should put us in a situation where the Board of Appeal, mostly the Office for Personal Data Protection, will have all the information to enable it to decide fairly and, where appropriate, to issue an information order if the conditions under the law are met and not only to disturb decisions and return to further proceedings, which would cause the so-called administrative ping-pong. Another issue that we have dealt with in the law, as we basically promised during the last parliamentary term, when it was the consensus of the coalition and the opposition, is that we have dealt with the issue of abuse of the right to information. The regulation contained in the bill is entirely in line with the case law of the Supreme Administrative Court and solves cases that unfortunately are - are unique, but are - when the right to information is abused and, of course, it also leads to the fact that the authorities do not fully love the hundredths, and this solution comes out to them and will be a standard legal reason. It will be briefing in the law, what has already been imported by the Supreme Administrative Court today. The law also contains several other changes, whether it be the protection of critical infrastructure, which is introduced among the so-called optional reasons. This means that if the information is compromised by the protection of critical infrastructure, the mandatory entity will be able to refuse the application. At the same time, it will have to explain, in accordance with the case law, why it used this reason to prevail over the public interest. He'll have to consider whether the conditions are actually met. So, on the contrary, automatism is not here, and it will need to be assessed so that we do not get into a situation where even a mandatory entity would like to provide some information on the basis of transparency, but because it would concern critical infrastructure, which is defined fairly widely and includes various infrastructure and other similar constructions, it will not be forced to issue a decision on rejection, but it will be at its discretion, which we consider to be better compliant with the principle of proportionality. The next amendment concerns the annual reports. I think it is important that we get really objective information that allows us to evaluate the application of the law on a regular basis so that we can actually see what the burden is on mandatory entities, what the functioning of the appeal mechanism is in the law, so that this will help us in future to obtain more relevant information for possible changes to the law and its effectiveness. And the last few changes that I wanted to talk about are the introduction of a new exception for arbitration, courts and other proceedings, where it is not entirely in the interests of the Czech Republic and mandatory entities, so that we provide and publish some information before it is applied in arbitration, so that we do not deteriorate the procedural situation. However, it should be pointed out here that we are talking about information that may jeopardise the equality of participants in arbitration, judicial or other administrative proceedings, which is not unlimited for a long time, this is not the whole duration of the arbitration procedure. This is, for example, at the first instance, when the party actually applies his evidence, evidence, analysis and so on, but as far as the next stage of the procedure is concerned, it is necessary, in turn, to assess sensitively whether, for example, at the stage of the procedure, this is a new information which arose during the procedure, if it is not the information that should have been applied at a certain stage in the light of the concentration of the proceedings and so on. So these are the considerations that a mandatory entity should take into account in the event that it makes use of the exemption so that it doesn't happen that the exemption will be overused. One thing I consider to be not entirely happy is the inclusion of a relatively wide exception of professional chambers into the law so that the obligation to provide information applies only to the area of public administration, which is, however, very narrowly defined in the public chambers, because originally the law envisaged that all public institutions provide information, and the courts concluded that the public institution is the same as any public corporation. So the professional chamber, which is a public-law corporation, provided the information in full mode, and today there is some narrowing going on. However, it should be said that these chambers continue to provide information to their members under their internal rules, so that those persons whose activities of the chambers, which deal with the assets that are often acquired from the relevant organisations from the previous regime, and the members of these chambers, these public corporations, are to continue to maintain their rights under their internal rules. I think the law will really help solve a number of problematic cases. I think that the law is aimed at greater transparency than the similar regulation that was submitted in the last parliamentary term, when unfortunately the previous government presented in the draft law, which Minister Hamáček said, as if it were limited or complicated to provide information from the castle office. This amendment, which has been tabled, is really heading towards a balanced adjustment, and I would like to thank the Ministry of the Interior for the enormous amount of cooperation and effort that we have put in place to negotiate this rather complicated regulation, put together and put together to strengthen public access to information on the one hand, strengthening public control where necessary, but also providing safeguards to ensure that the right to information is not abused for purposes other than those for which it was intended by the Institute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u7	Thank you and now for the debate duly signed up by Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u8	Thank you. Madam President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues, House press number 222 amends the law on the right to information on the environment, the law on free access to information, the law on the promotion of research and development, but all of this has already been stated by the petitioner, Mr Minister. This amendment implements the transposition of Directive 2019/2024 on open data and re-use of information in the public sector. This is a new directive that is linked to free access to information. [[9.50 hours]] Part of the transposition of this Directive has already been implemented under Act No. 261/2020 Coll. Moreover, the directive is newly extending the scope of the rules for the re-use of public sector information to so-called public undertakings in the transport and public services sectors. The emphasis is also on access to so-called research data, which are used in scientific research and financed by public funds. The directive also deals with the possibility of publication dynamics through programmable application interfaces and the modification of so-called high-value data sets. The amendment applies changes arising from the directive in the context of a minimalist concept, so where the directive required a lower information obligation than it is under the current legal order, our current legislation has been maintained. On the contrary, in areas where the directive requires a higher information standard, an extension was made in a minimalist form. In particular, I consider the part of the directive relating to research data to be important. Where research is financed through public money, obliged entities should publish such data. We can continue our research and move forward only if we follow up on previous research results and previous data. Indeed, publicly funded data should not be hidden from other researchers unless, of course, a major obstacle to this - security, core infrastructure and similar. At the same time, the law based on the directive also remembers the dissemination of these data using programmable application interfaces, which means that programmers and data analysts can develop their own applications and draw them from the interface. The data are therefore published and prepared in machine-readable format. I will not judge here how the previous government has acted, nor will I criticize the fact that the current government here states that we are threatened with fines from the European Union for missing deadlines. However, we could have discussed this law three quarters of a year ago. I can say that the introduction of certain directives of the European Union and their supremacy to our legislation are not always optimal in our opinion. However, we will see how further discussions will take place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u9	Thank you, and now Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová reports with priority rights. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to comment on Act 106 on free access to information. You all know it's a law that goes with all self-government, and I must say that I listened very closely to Mr. Jakub Michálek. He must have devoted himself to this law and made it clear here that he wanted access to information to be strengthened, but that it would not be abused again. I'd just like to evaluate that it's really a transposition novel. I would like to say that this transposition amendment was already approved by the last government last March, but it did not pass at first reading in the House. And since the changes were to be implemented just until last July, the Ministry of the Interior again submitted the proposal in January and then it was withdrawn to discuss it in a broader context with representatives of the MPs. In April it was presented again and, of course, we hear how we are threatened with a fine within the framework or, respectively, the European Commission's action and then the subsequent fine. I would just like to summarize that the transposition directive of 20 June 2019 is mainly about open data and re-use of public sector information. The most important changes are the addition of the definition of mandatory entities. The directive also applies to certain state-owned legal entities, such as CEZ, and these entities will be obliged to provide information only to a limited extent, only about the activities for which they are public undertakings, the obligation to publish dynamic data in the form of open data - typically data obtained by sensors such as meteorological or traffic data, satellite data and the like, the obligation to publish high-information data files such as open data, for example in the field of environment and other statistical data, the possibility to conclude an exclusive agreement on the provision of information in case of digitalisation of cultural resources, as well as explicit arrangements for access to data by scientific research or development fully funded by public funds. I would like to say that Law 106 is always very debatable in the very fact that everyone is always on the one hand, that he either wants to provide the information, and he is sometimes in a situation where someone does not want to provide it. For example, I have to say from my personal experience - at this point opposition regional representatives - it happens to me that I demand information under the Regionals Act and sometimes I get into the situation that the information is not provided to me from the Regionals Act, even if the opposition representatives' role under the Regionals Act is to have control activity, so according to the section you are entitled to it, but sometimes you are in the situation that you are told: Ask under Act 106, you will have access to it, as any citizen has. But I cannot agree with that, because I believe that we should not, as regional representatives, just follow the law of 106, but we should follow the Regional Council Act, which clearly states that the regional representative has been elected regional representative, control activity and control the region, the city and is entitled to the information without Act 106. I would like to ask you very much from this place, because I understand that there is a term here, there is a rush to do it, there has been an intensive work to do, but I am convinced that the biggest debate must be held on committees. Now that I've had experience here over the past few months, the coalition never wants to approve anything but one committee, the guarantee committee. The Guarantee Committee is proposed there by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, but I would like to ask you very much before the general debate is over, to order this also to the Public Administration Committee. There are mayors in the Public Administration Committee, there are people from the authorities, so that they may also have an opportunity to comment on this, if necessary. I wanted to ask you a lot. Of course, I think that the economic committee should also get it out of the business sector. I don't think if he's here, and I don't know from us, Madam President, about, like, some short deadlines or something, I don't know what the proposal will be, if it's gonna be, we're gonna support it, but please also support that law. It will also be passed by other committees, so that Members in the Economic Committee from the business environment and in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development can comment on this. I think that the practical experience is always the most important thing in this law, because you're practically working with it and you know practically what's wrong with it. Well, that's what needs to be pointed out. And I think that this debate may take place at the House plenary, but I think that where it should take place in detail, it is primarily on committees. [[10.00 hours]] So in advance, I'd like to make an announcement that I'd like to propose the two committees later. And I would first of all like to ask the president of the clubs, the president of the coalition parties, if you would support the proposal. We're prepared to support the shortened deadlines, but if you would make an exception in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u11	Thank you. Your performance brought about a factual and then an application with priority rights. First, I will read an apology in the meantime, when Minister Gazdík apologizes today for work reasons, then Mr Dufek today from 11 to 13.30 for work reasons, and Mr Brázdil from 11 to 13 for health reasons. And now we're going to proceed to a point of fact that comes first and then to an application with priority rights. I beg you, President Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will actually respond to the performance of the previous speaker, Mrs Vildumetzová. I just wanted to say that the Supreme Administrative Court has already ruled on this matter. In one case-law, he pointed to the edge of his statement that the procedural arrangements should be a hundred and six. The mass is regulated in the law on regions, about municipalities, about the capital city of Prague and so on, but the procedure should be according to Act No. 106. It is true what you say, that a lot of mandatory entities make a false application of the law and that they require the applicant to do so or the regime, but anyone who has devoted himself to administrative law knows that incentives should be assessed on the basis of content, not on the basis of some cited paragraphs. It's not the applicant's duty to identify it somehow. And if a member of the district council asks for information, then it should be settled in both the procedural regime and the majority of six, but taking into account the particularities set out in the municipal or regional constitution, that is, there is another deadline and there is another circle of information, because the representative has access to a wider range of information, and at the same time there is no remuneration for the provision of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u13	I also thank you for keeping time. However, it brought about another factual one, namely Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u14	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker, but that's not the way it is in practice! What you're saying should be, but it doesn't work like that at all. As a representative, you have the right to access information, but I can tell you as a representative that I didn't get to them at all, and I just had to get over 100, and I had to wait 30 days because no one wanted to give me that information, even though I was referring to being a representative. So the hundred-six is abused and not abused, because if you're trying to access information as a representative, you have to go through the hundred-six because the ruling crew that's there will do everything you can to get that information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u15	Thank you for this brief factual fact and the Minister is now with priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. As I have announced, I would like to ask you, in the context of the fact that we should actually discuss this law quickly, to shorten the deadline for discussing the proposal in the committees to 15 days. And I would also like to respond to the request of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. After a quick agreement, we agree that the Guarantee Committee should be a logically constitutionally legal committee and that the material should still be discussed in the Public Administration Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u17	Thank you and I now think that Mrs Lesenská has already been signed in, that she has only remained on the board and that no one is to be heard in the general debate. I'll make sure one more time - that's right. I can therefore end the general debate. And just for the record: Is there interest in the final words after the general debate? It's not. So we will now consider, as has already been discussed, proposals on the commandments of committees for discussion, and first we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee therefore proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the already mentioned constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. My question is, does anyone propose the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I've already begun, so we can proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee? Who opposes constitutional law as a guarantee committee? In the vote number 119, 172 Members and Members were enrolled, for 137, against 0. So I'm saying that this proposal has been ordered to discuss constitutionally-legally as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the Organising Committee proposed to order this proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a further committee. So does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee or committees to discuss? Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u18	As I have announced, I think Law 106 - and I don't see Ivan Adamec here, so it might pass - could still be discussed by the Economic Committee, so I'm making a proposal. I think this is also affecting this sphere, and I think that Members of the Economic Committee should also discuss this House press. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-001-033.u19	Yeah, well, I'm also logging out the application, so I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up again with our registration cards. And there's been a counterproposal that we're both going to be... in succession. So, well, if no one objects, we will vote in the procedure first of all on the motion for a commandment from the Public Administration Committee and then, if necessary, to the Economic Committee. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Anyone who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as the next committee shall press the button for and raise his hand. Who opposes the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as the next committee? In the vote number 120, 155 Members and Members, for 150, against 1. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered as the next committee to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. And the second proposal is who agrees that the proposal submitted should also be directed to the Committee on Economic Affairs. Initiating vote. Who is for the commandment of this committee? Who's against it? In the vote number 121, 157 Members voted in favour of 76, against 47, and 34 abstained. So this committee has not been ordered to discuss the proposal. [[10.10 hours]] We have thus dealt with proposals for committees. And there was also a proposal to shorten the deadline to 15 days, so we will also vote on this. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline to 15 days. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 122, 157 Members voted in favour of 140, against 15. The shortening of the deadline was accepted, it was approved for 15 days. I hereby thank the rapporteur and the proposer for the presentation here and conclude the discussion on this point. Within the approved programme, we will proceed to the next item,
