ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u1	68. Request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence By letter dated 7 January this year, Prime Minister Petr Fiala informed me that the government appointed by the President of the Republic on 17 December 2021 was ready to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and to ask for a vote of confidence. The Constitution of the Czech Republic prescribes to do so within 30 days of its appointment. The government's programming declaration was delivered to you on Friday, January 7, this year as House Document 245 and at the same time as you were handed out on your desk today. I will now ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala to take the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, today it is exactly 102 days from the autumn parliamentary elections and until today we do a symbolic dot on these elections. According to our constitution, a document which has identified the parliamentary nature of our Republic, the newly appointed government is going before the Chamber of Deputies to ask for its trust. And if he gets that trust, then he's just becoming a full government for the next term. And only then will the vote of everyone who participated in the election come true. And that is why we are gathered here today to fulfill what the citizens asked us to do in the autumn elections - a change of government in our country. I have this assembly, this building, this institution in deep respect, and I don't consider it a useless or rampant institution, nor a blabbermouth. Parliament reflects the will of the voters. Without Parliament, there would be no democracy. The democratic state, parliamentary democracy, is the only truly proven guarantee of freedom and prosperity for citizens. Of course, nothing is perfect and no human activity is perfect, but no one has ever thought of anything better in the administration of public affairs or invented anything better. That is why I come here today as Prime Minister with pride and humility at the same time. Our government coalition met for the first time on election day, making it clear that it wants to start working immediately to make things better in our country. The document that we are presenting to you today is not done overnight, it is the result of long work, it is behind it without exaggerating thousands of hours of work, first the experts of our individual parties who have prepared programmes for elections, then the joint coalition teams that have tried to define the program penetrations, seek compromises, talk to the key representatives of the company, and we have created together a final government program, a programme that will respond correctly to the needs of our country and the needs of its people. But at the same time, it is a realistic programme, both in terms of achieving the objectives and in terms of financial and social costs. We are not populists, and we do not want to promise anything that we are not convinced we are able to fulfill, and we will certainly not promise anything that we know could even harm our country and its economy. In our opinion, the responsible government cannot live day to day. He can't be in debt. He needs a vision, he needs ambition, but at the same time he has to stand firm on the ground. I believe that is precisely what our government's programming statement is, which we will be voting on today, among other things. Our government team does not come to serve our country and its citizens in a simple period. The combination of rising inflation, or expensiveness, the energy crisis and the epidemic of covid, is undoubtedly putting our citizens ahead of the most complex year since the emergence of our independent state. This is the result of both external international influences, which we certainly do not deny, but also the unfortunate result of a number of decisions of the previous government. However, we are prepared to handle this situation and to address all the accumulated problems correctly. At the same time, however, we want, and we actually have to, to work on a number of long-term projects and topics. We must, because both the world economy and European policy are rapidly evolving, and the Czech Republic must be able to respond adequately to this in order to be able to compete with other countries so that we can guarantee our citizens a long-term safe existence as well as a better standard of living. We can no longer afford to put our problems away for the next term, because then it might be too late for all of us. And it doesn't matter whether it concerns pension reform or the construction of nuclear resources. On the contrary, if we get to work now and do it well, the Czech Republic will have a chance to be among the most advanced countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, getting the Czech Republic among the world's most advanced countries is ambition, this is the common ambition of all the five political parties that created this government coalition. The programming statement that we are presenting to you today, in our opinion, shows which way to take this journey, the journey between the world's most advanced countries, to take. The first step on this path is to start naming and removing all the major problems that bother the Czech Republic and its citizens, and we really mean it when we say that we are the government of change for the future. We want a better future not only for us, but also for our children and grandchildren. [[9.10 hours]] So, ladies and gentlemen, as a new government, what do we want to offer on this path to the better future of our republic? First of all, we want a state that doesn't live on debt, because every debt has to be paid once. And the later it pays, the bigger it gets, and the more painful it gets. The side effect of spending borrowed money by the state is inflation, or because of expensiveness. And now our country and its citizens have had to deal with this since last autumn, and according to economists, it will continue throughout this year. That is why we must immediately begin to be reasonable and budgetaryly responsible, not only in relation to this year's state budget, but to all future budgets. Therefore, our programming declaration also contains an obligation to include the principles of the Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. We want to adjust the spending rule so that government spending cannot be increased regardless of our reserves and regardless of the economic situation. At the same time, we want to assure our citizens that the state will not ruthlessly increase their taxes. That is why we have committed ourselves to creating a tax brake rule that sets a ceiling on the overall tax burden. Once the tax quota is reached, tax increases will then be automatically excluded. Of course, our government plans include a number of other measures, especially in the area of combating tax evasion and illegal tax optimizations. The entire document is available to you and has also been available to the public since last week on the website of the Office of the Government. In this context, I would like to stress that the possible austerity measures of our government will be most socially sensitive and will not affect our priorities in the field of education, health and social care. Our aim is also to maintain the existing valorisation mechanism for our pensioners. We believe that saving our country is to be on its own in the first place, not on its own citizens. Unfortunately, the Czech state is very necessary, and compared to how much it costs us all, it is also little efficient. And that includes our next commitment. Our next commitment is that we want our state to be modern, smart, efficient and economical. The main path to this goal is clearly digitalisation. We can significantly save this on officials, their offices and the overall operation of the state, while our citizen gets much faster and better service. Our specific plans in this area are very ambitious and relate to virtually all resorts, whether it is a revision of individual official agendas in order to reduce those unnecessary and convert others possibly to a digital platform, or to the introduction of a single electronic market for purchases of the state, or further expansion of Czech POINT, the creation of a mobile application of the Citizen Portal, the launch of a free Business Portal, the sharing of data from basic registers, better data transparency and so on and so on and so on. We want to consistently implement the principle that where data can circulate between authorities, there should not be a citizen running around. Of course, we also think of seniors, we think of citizens with special needs, for which the original paper trail will also be preserved. Modernization of our state should bring us not only savings, but also the opportunity to employ top experts and future talents in the administration. Without them, the 21st-century administration will certainly fail. We are talking here at a certain exaggeration about the construction of new information motorways, but unfortunately the Czech Republic is missing, unfortunately the original motorways, asphalt motorways are still missing and our train transport is falling behind as well. And all of this is also a measure of how modern our state is, how effective it is. The high-quality transport network is a fundamental prerequisite not only for the quality of life of citizens but also for the further development of our economy. In a modern country, you just need to get from one place to another quickly and with certainty. In a modern country, you need to have all regions accessible, accessible and interconnected, both for people, for citizens and for investors. That is why our government is committed to expanding the motorway network in our country by the end of its term of office by another 200 kilometers. We will focus on the continuation of the construction of the Prague Circuit, the construction of other sections of the D35 motorway and the completion of the D1 motorway. The new sections will include other parts of the D3 motorway by extending the D4, D6, D49 and D55 motorways. At the same time, we want to increase the capacity of selected Class 1 roads and build bypasses of cities and municipalities suffering from transit traffic. Our next priority is also the construction of modern high-speed lines, especially the preparation of key buildings on the lines Prague-Dresden, Prague-Brno, Brno-Ostrava and Brno-Vienna. I would like to stay for a while on how to support the further development of our economy. The future of our economy will depend more than ever on how our state, our businesses, can adapt to new trends, especially in the field of new technologies and industrial innovation. The Czech Republic is a pro-export industrial country, but must not be a montage for more advanced economies. And here we face double risk. On the one hand, we could lose our advantages in international competition and start falling behind, and the other risk is that we would not be able to transform our energy into new conditions and thus lose energy independence and thus the ability to influence prices for our households and businesses. We are very aware of these risks and therefore our government wants to support the competitiveness of the Czech industry as much as possible, including through the promotion of investment in innovation and new technologies. In other words, we will want companies and projects with high added value of work to be created. This is how the Czech industry can keep up with the world and compete in international competition. At the same time, however, we will focus very intensively on addressing the Czech Republic's energy self-sufficiency, and even here, new technologies and innovation are the solutions. We can see the future of our energy - it is no other way - in a combination of nuclear energy and decentralised renewable resources. But this will require concentrated efforts by the government on more fronts, on more fronts at once, including abroad, where we do not want and cannot withdraw from the intention to recognise nuclear energy as a sustainable resource and natural gas as a key transformation rule within the EU. In the submitted programming declaration, you will also find another important task that we have imposed on ourselves in the field of energy. We will basically contribute to the creation of new photovoltaic power plants on at least 100,000 domestic roofs by 2025. Our government also wants to pay off the long-term debt of previous governments and finally start building nuclear blocks in our existing nuclear power plants, without China and Russia's participation, of course. Our next key commitment concerns entrepreneurs. We want to systematically support small and medium-sized companies, which we believe are to form the backbone of our economy. It is clear that many of these active people have already resigned to support the Czech state, but I still want them to... Our government wants to promise them a few things. Firstly, less bureaucracy and, secondly, more support precisely for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I also want to give them our word that this government will end with the infamous and purposeful cursing. This, of course, does not mean that the State will resign from its control role, but we will promote at all levels that the state's supervisory authorities act wisely, with respect to the client and with the least bureaucratic burden on the controlled entities. [[9.20 hours]] I also want to give them our word that this government will end with the infamous and purposeful cursing. This, of course, does not mean that the State will resign from its control role, but we will promote at all levels that the state's supervisory authorities act wisely, with respect to the client and with the least bureaucratic burden on the controlled entities. Ladies and gentlemen, it won't go from one day to the next, I'm not saying that, it won't go from one day to the next, but I firmly believe that it will be seen as soon as possible. Our further intention to support business and support the Czech economy is to open the labour market to interested people from third countries. Entrepreneurs have long been calling for this, and it is a matter that will help solve the long-term shortage of employees in the field of construction, services, industry and secondary to help the Czech economy itself. The same principles that I have just mentioned here, the principles of state support, we want to introduce for our farmers. We will support family farms and small, medium, starting and ecological farmers more effectively. We do not want agricultural holdings, regardless of size, to be burdened by unnecessary or duplicate administration. On the other hand, we will pay more attention to the protection of agricultural land against degradation, against corruption. We will also support biodiversity and water retention in the countryside. A significant moment, which will certainly be appreciated by the general public, will be the efforts of the government to reduce the use of artificial fertilisers and pesticides in favour of organic fertilisers. The changes will, of course, also affect agricultural subsidies, which is a very discussed matter these days. First of all, there will be the setting of clear rules, as we promised our voters before the elections, the support of the so-called first hectares and the subsidies for the largest agricultural companies will be covered. The actual drawing of subsidies will also be strictly controlled with regard to the possible interconnection of companies. We also intend to combat the negative phenomena of industrial agriculture, end the support of first generation biofuels and biogas stations that process technical crops. In general, we will meet our next common objective by various means: we want our agriculture to be environmentally friendly and that our forests, land and waterland can manage climate change as best as possible. In particular, the water that I have just mentioned here has a crucial role to play in our programming statement. We consider water protection to be a primary national interest, and we will therefore submit a proposal to anchor its protection in the Constitution by the end of this year. We are prepared from European and national projects, programmes to support thousands of concrete projects for the renewal of wetlands, pools, small water tanks as well as care for valuable habitats, planting greenery, improving spatial and species compositions of forests or revitalizing watercourses. The aim of all these projects and all the money spent is to keep the water in the landscape and restore the natural water regime. These are all long-term investments, we are clearly aware of this, they are long-term investments, whose effect will not be seen from day to day, will not be seen immediately. But we believe that such a policy will be appreciated especially by the generations that will come after us. And speaking of generations, our families play an important role in the plans of the new government. We want Czech families to have a place to live, we want our children to have a good education - an education that will help them prepare well for a changing modern world. Our housing program is really very complex, which is why I'm just going to mention some of the main measures here. We are counting on simplifying the construction process. We count on the support of all types of housing, whether it is property, rental or cooperative housing, so that people can find the most suitable form for their particular life situation. We want to introduce tax concessions, we want to reduce VAT in this area, prepare new financial instruments, including guarantees from the State for loans. Last but not least, we also expect the release of suitable land held by the state and their transfer to municipalities, we want to transfer it to municipalities for the purpose of building apartments and related infrastructure. Our goal is for roughly 10,000 flats to be built by the end of this parliamentary term, 10,000 flats more a year than is so far. This is our goal, and it is a goal that the Czech families certainly need to fulfil. Our next priority is the education of our children. The pandemic and its related online teaching have shown us fully that the content of our curriculum is often outdated and goes too wide, it is too robust. We therefore decided to complete the revision of the framework education programmes by the end of 2023, with emphasis on the volume, content and topicality of the curriculum in primary and secondary schools. At the same time, we will focus on reducing the total volume of the course and supporting its quality, especially the understanding of the substance under consideration, prefer quality to quantity, i.e. excessive memorization. We will also strive to increase the space for teamwork, development of creativity and individual approach to pupils. We want to pay particular attention to the development of the knowledge and skills needed in everyday life. This is also an important school assignment. This will concern not only the promotion of civil education or ethical education, but also financial and media literacy and critical thinking. At the same time, we are aware that the new approach to education, the adaptation of framework education programmes, the preference of quality over the quantity of education, must all be supported by high-quality educators - educators who will carry out their mission under dignified conditions. That is why we clearly have our commitment to keep teachers' salaries at 130 percent of the average monthly wage. As we have already mentioned, family and its stability are of fundamental value to our government. That is why we will also support more flexible worktimes for parents and offer them better opportunities to reconcile professional and family life so that people can afford to spend more time on children, care for loved ones, and it did not in any case mean a fall in standard of living for them. We would also like to pay back the huge debt of past governments to our active-age fellow citizens during this parliamentary term. We want these people, the younger generation, to know what pension they will one day have, so that they can be sure that their lives will be dignified in old age. That is why, in this government's programming declaration, we have committed ourselves to presenting real pension reform by the end of 2023. Its proposal will consist of two main components and a third voluntary. The basic component will reflect the requirements for the dignity of life and financial capacity of the state, the merit component will be based on contributions to the insurance system and the number of children raised, and the voluntary component will be established in the form of a state or public fund as usual abroad. We believe that all these measures, I have mentioned only a few, all these measures in favour of our families and their individual members are the best investment in the future of our state. [[9.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to briefly stop at external relations, on the issue of foreign policy, the European Union and ensure our external security. The European Presidency, which is ahead of us in the second half of this year, will give the Czech Republic a unique opportunity to return to our state at international level the reputation of a reliable and respected partner, a reputation that we have maintained in recent years not in all directions. I would like to emphasise here that our government is aware of its responsibility towards the European Union, the North Atlantic Alliance, that we see these institutions as a common space, whose resulting form, opinions, attitudes can and must and must also we - the Czech Republic - actively create and influence. And that's important. Participate in active creation and influence of what may take place in the European Union. I would like to reiterate here that we want the Czech Republic to be a state that belongs to a democratic Europe and that knows that the values of freedom and democracy must be actively defended and promoted. In our interest, the democratic, non-bureaucratic, fair and commercially open European Union is with an emphasis on respect for civil liberties. The European Union is a living project, we understand that. It's a lively project that's constantly evolving. And we will support its form, which favours the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, enabling Member States to realise their interests and also ensure that Member States' powers do not grow into a democratic deficit. At the same time, I would like to mention that by the end of 2023, and this already concerns foreign policy, we will submit to this Parliament for approval a law sanctioning gross human rights violations known as the so-called Magnitský Law. We believe that this will be a clear signal of what our government wants to promote in foreign policy, and it is also an entry with a concrete step towards what we have called the Havlova tradition of our foreign policy. But there is also another thing in this category, our next commitment to defending our country. We are all watching a deteriorating security situation, we cannot close our eyes to it, and perhaps the current situation at the eastern borders of Ukraine shows how important it is to protect our external security and that it cannot be resigned in its defence, on the contrary. That is why we will increase our country's defense spending in line with our alliance commitments to reach 2% of the gross domestic product already in the 2025 budget. And we are also counting on this level of defensive spending to be legally anchored as a minimum for other budgets and other governments - the governments that will come after us. Madam Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I could speak here for a long time and present the various points of our programme and programme statement. I could talk here about our plans in the field of health care, how we want to support Czech culture, or plans in the field of internal security, justice or legislation. But you have it all carefully written down, you have it on your desks, and especially for several days, about a week, there is a fairly rich public debate on all the topics presented, and that is good. My intention here was to present to you personally at least the most important tasks set out by this new Czech government for the next four years. I know very well that these are very ambitious plans, but we also know that we need to start filling them all up and start filling them up as soon as possible. Since our country cannot afford any further delays, we have also chosen a policy of openness since the start of our government. We do not want and must not and will not lie to citizens and hide problems, even though it may sometimes be unpleasant for us, and we will no longer be here in four years to pretend that we have never made these promises. Those promises I'm talking about here are promises we take seriously, and we're gonna want to make accounts here in four years - each of us sitting here. We really feel like government change. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and, on behalf of my new Government and the Czech Republic, in accordance with the Constitution, I ask you to express your confidence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u3	Thank you to Prime Minister Petr Fial and I am opening a debate in which MEPs Andrej Babiš, Alena Schillerová, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and subsequently 33 Members have signed up with priority rights, as you can see on the board. Just for your information, those who have applied in writing in advance for example, so you are already entered into the electronic system to know in which order you are applying. We will therefore now proceed to the debate that is under way. I will ask the President of the Andrej Babiš, and before he arrives at the counter, I will read one more apology from Mr Radek Koten, who apologizes today for reasons of health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u4	Hello, everyone. Madam President, honourable Members, Mr Prime Minister, honourable Government. Thank you for the floor, but I must start by saying that the YES movement will not vote in favour of the new government. Indeed, we cannot support a government that deliberately deceives citizens, promises what it can never accomplish, and instead of a specific solution, it offers corny phrases and a non-spoken floscule. I have read the government's programming statement several times, and I confess that I have never read our own government programming statement as many times as yours. And we, the five-calice officials, are still hearing the same played song that they've been talking about for the last three months. They repeat over and over again how badly we are said to be, how disastrous our finances are, how we are said to be in extreme debt, how little we have cared about our country's future. Even a time ago, it was so absurd that we were trying to do everything we could to give you the country in its worst condition. What it says about the author's mind marches, let each one judge for himself. But just to remind you. We discussed the pandemic four hours before I handed the keys to the Prime Minister of Fial on December 17, 2021. With each statement, the new government confirms that it is continuing its election campaign. He keeps on driving his Antibabiš, he keeps twisting things around. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know, it's three months after the election. People aren't curious about your excuses, your complaints and your squirming. People are waiting for you to finally start working, put forward concrete proposals, and start fulfilling what you promised them before the election. And that was it! You promised you wouldn't touch people's salaries or pensions and you wouldn't raise taxes. You promised to increase tax discounts on the taxpayer, raise the threshold for payment of VAT and reduce social insurance for employers. That's good news for the employer, and I'm sure you can count on our votes. I would just like to remind you that this budget will cost CZK 35 billion a year, plus social security is a source for pensions. [[9.40 hours]] But you must know that, just as you know that the EET brought extra CZK 33 billion to the register and the audit report year after year 10 billion. As long as you're committed to reducing the scope of the gray economy in your programming statement, you're doing the opposite. Perhaps the Minister of Finance should see what VAT gap was like in 2013. VAT gap is what they stole from us on VAT, especially in fuel. Let's remember the light fuel oils. And how much was the VAT gap in 2013? Well, 19 percent. And 2016? 11.9. These are hundreds of billions that were being robbed here by non-payment of excise duty and fuel VAT, and the inspection report brought 10 billion. And I don't know how you want to change that. Those are the carousels we destroyed. Yes, we destroyed them. You promised to tame inflation, price increases, and high energy prices. And you also promised to save 100 billion each year before the election. That doesn't apply today either. You promised people mountains down, even though you knew you could never do it, which is probably why Prime Minister Fiala warned against saviors and populists... I must say, I did not expect such self-criticism from the Prime Minister. You simply feel that you are leaking into your shoes, that you are creating an alibi to justify why you will betray your constituents again and, as always, in the past and forget about your pre-election vows. That is why Prime Minister Fiala, in his New Year's speech, told people that 2022 would be one of the most difficult and difficult since the creation of the independent Czech Republic. What's that really meant? Doesn't the Prime Minister have facts at his disposal, or is he deliberately making them up, or does he acknowledge that he simply doesn't have a team to run the country? Or don't they trust each other? If anyone had a difficult time, it was our government. For the past two years, we've dealt with practically nothing but covid. We were looking for vaccines all over the world, as well as oxygenators in New Zealand, beds from LINET, dealing with vaccination strategies, buying monoclonal cocktails and new drugs against covid. Over the last two years, we've had to deal with the budget seven times in order to give people money and maintain employment. And then you came - and you were just throwing sticks at us all the time - and you were using it politically as the only opposition in Europe, nobody was doing it - and you came and criticized us for giving little money to the people, businesses, but also to the regions, cities and communities. And now you're criticizing us for the deficit and the debt because you think we've given them power. So you really don't get to choose with you. Everything's always wrong. Now you're in charge of the pandemic, and seeing this mess you're doing so far, it just confirms to me how you went to the government unprepared. Fortunately, you do not have to deal with covid from scratch and the numbers of hospitalized people are still falling due to the measures taken by our government. You have enough vaccines, you have enough monoclonal substances, you have enough drugs, you have - and I will get there because Minister Rakušan asked Mrs Vildumetzová what we did, so I will talk about it here long - what did we do? Well, you have 499 vaccination centers that we created, and 167 of them without registration. And how many vaccines have we given? 16 088,000, so asking what we've done is really ridiculous. Yeah, looks like we're lucky, and I'm glad that omicron - so far everyone's talking about it - isn't a killer. The numbers of hospitalized people are falling, and that's good. But you say, yes, the omicron is coming. And what did you do? Well, you canceled the VAT. We forgave him, VAT on drapes and respirators 21 percent - you just canceled it. To make it more expensive? I don't understand. So about the situation. I sincerely wish you and our country not to have to deal with such crisis situations as the tornado in South Moravia, the torrential rains, the evacuation of our people from Afghanistan and many other things. So talk about it, Prime Minister, through Madam President, that it will be the most complex and difficult - I hope not. I don't think people think it's gonna be like that. The Czech Republic is experiencing one of the best periods of its history - and I will get to that. Luckily, we've prepared a lot of projects for you, so you don't have to think of anything. All you have to do is implement our projects and exhaust the nearly 1,000 billion we have managed from European funds and almost 1,000 billion from the Modernization Fund. This year alone, 66 billion will be flowing in from the beginning. And we wanted to give people this money and pay for it with renewables. That's the item of CZK 1,500 we inherited from the solar tunnel in your day. So all you're supposed to do is draw it. You won't be discussing money anymore. During our first reign, Mr Nečas acted and we exhausted it. And all you're supposed to do is exhaust it. So once again, the Czech Republic has been experiencing the best period since its inception. For this there are clear statistics and numbers, both from the Czech Republic and abroad. If you're not able to admit the real state of affairs and twist the facts as you can, I'd be happy to share them with you. I'll start with the finances. You can repeat your lies about broken finances a hundred times, but the numbers are clear. The Czech Republic is the sixth least-indebted country of the European Union. Yes, honourable citizens, the sixth least-indebted country of the European Union, despite two terrible years of covid. Yes, we're in debt for the covid. GDP debt is 43,5 %. And this is still less than the debt left by Nečasův' government, in which Prime Minister Fiala sat, who repeatedly criticizes us for today's debt. Before cod we had debt to GDP - we even reduced it to 29 percent. As Minister of Finance, I reduced him, and Mrs Schillerová continued to do so. It's just to refresh your memory. By the way, the current debt has also made it optically possible that municipalities and regions are literally drowning in money. They have record-breaking surplus in management. Yes, we and the entire covid paid to self-government and tests, social services fees, paramedics and so on. So how many accounts did they have on the community and the city? 313 billion and 71.5 billion! Prague is even sitting on 90 billion, and probably under Mr. Hřib's leadership is about to open its own bank if it is unable to invest. It can't be how much money they have, and more and more! But what's the point if they don't invest? So when you're talking about a catastrophic debt situation, as your finance minister says, please return to the ground with your feet! Austria has a debt of 87,2 %, Germany 73,1, France 117,4. The average debt to GDP in the European Union is 94.4 and even 102.4 in the euro area. And we have, I repeat, 43.5 percent, okay? 43,5 is less than 44,4 - it was 2013. So I repeat, the debt is smaller. So I'm begging you, don't say that again. We have a table here, but everyone knows it, we've shown it a hundred times. [[He's pointing.]] Mrs Schillerová has presented a clear plan to consolidate our finances after the covid. She did it by 2024 and the prediction is - fiscal prediction with planned savings in 2024 - 49 % and fiscal prediction - autonomous development - 51.3 %. That means there's no concern about our finances. You guys were still scaring, yes, you were scaring our seniors that he wouldn't be on retirement and all that nonsense. It's not true. We have sound public finances and are repeatedly confirmed by reputable international rating agencies. Last time in December, Fitch was worth AA-- just like Britain. We have the same healthy finances. [[9.50 hours]] While other much more indebted countries are trying to invest gradually and quietly out of the crisis, as we planned, you want to get out of the crisis again with drastic cuts! Didn't you learn from the way that Nečas and Kalousek scared people away, took their money and wasted the entire economy years in advance? Obviously not! Even if you're planning to cut 125 billion out of our draft budget this year, they've already adjusted it, and now you're talking about 80 billion, while your own ministers are talking about saving billions at most. But I'd like to see those troops! Give it to us in detail, in the crown, show us! We'll be rooting for you if you're saving up. We tried - yes, we can talk about the Civil Service Act, what is the reserve there, how much can be reduced, fine! I'm sure we'll support you in that! But you know that the 80 billion is completely unrealistic. You know that, and you keep lying. Yes, you can, of course, chop off the fare discounts for seniors and students that I have enforced. And that was a flagship for us, too, because retired people just deserve it. And, of course, we can talk about it. But that's just the change. Without touching people's salaries and pensions, stopping the construction of highways and roads or cutting off the army's budget, exactly what you promised you wouldn't do, you just won't give the 80 billion savings. I don't understand why you didn't say, "Yeah, we thought, we didn't have information, now we see it, sorry, we're sorry. But you keep talking about it, and you know it's not true. It's with inflation anyway! You can't control the inflation you pinned on me, and you lied to the citizens about Babišův's expensiveness. And by the way, speaking of inflation, which is probably yours now, or I still don't know if it's Babišův, let's talk about it! The statistics for December came out today, I haven't read it yet, but let's take the statistics for November. And do you know what inflation was like in November? Increase by 0.2 compared to October. Why? Well, because we had a minus inflation for electricity of 16.2 percent. Why? Well, because Secretary Schillerová canceled 21 percent of the VAT, and those people see it on the bills for November and December. And natural gas? Minus 11.5 percent. So because we canceled the VAT on electricity, natural gas, it's minus inflation for October. So now I'm just asking, how are you going to handle the inflation? You have a new foreign minister - a young, prospective politician, so he should fly to the oil cartel. Tell him to fly behind the sheikhs and say, "Hey, look, I'm gonna negotiate the oil now! Or he said he'd talk to Lavrov. I don't know if he already has a cell phone, I can get it for you somewhere near Orbán, for example. [[Laughter among members of the YES.]] What's he gonna do with the gas anyway? So - no, I don't have the phone. [[In response to the voice from the diaper.]] Of course it's nonsense. Yes, Viktor Orbán bought natural gas directly from Russia for 15 years because he has his RWE and Transgas. We don't have it anymore, because you sold everything. You sold everything! You've privatized the CEZ, too! If there weren't minorists, we could have helped people in a very specific way a long time ago. So it's all global inflation! Natural gas, oil. Do you know how many in October, for example, there was an increase in fuel? 32,8 per cent. Natural cost 37 crowns. Well, why? Well, because we just import oil. So that's the global inflation, so why did you talk about it, that it was our fault if it wasn't true? And we fought her effectively. Of course, emission allowances have a great influence, and they have become the subject of speculators. I have repeatedly criticized this at the European Council, and we have repeatedly called on other countries to change the directive so that the MiFID directive, which is pointless, would only be for those who buy it. And I will keep my fingers crossed, and, of course, as opposition, we will support Prime Minister Fiala to continue to look for allies. Well, let's just say, and the Prime Minister also said in his speech that we should have caused inflation by giving money to people. Totally unbelievable! Totally unbelievable. So all I'm saying is that if your government really cuts, combined with the theorists from the Czech National Bank who are destroying this economy and destroying people, that's a complete disaster! So what's this inflation thing? Come on, inflation is what? Prices are rising. Why? Well, if there's not enough, right? Of what? So, Prime Minister, please, through Madam President, take a look at, for example, the food that grew there and did not grow there. What grew there the most? No vegetables. Why? Because after the revolution, you said we'd bring everything. And how much self-sufficiency do we have in vegetables today? 30 percent! As the covid arrived and the whole of southern Europe did not work much, so, of course, the prices of vegetables flew by 4.2%. We were once a potato power. Well, we're not anymore. You've ruined everything, potatoes 8.1. So let's see, only 1.6 fruit. So common sense is enough to understand that inflation caused by giving money to people is nonsense. Because household savings have increased by 547 billion year on year! In two years! Do you know how much savings people have? 3 353 billion! So the citizens are going to playfully buy a government debt today if they want to. When I was in Japan and I asked the finance minister, who was 90 years old, if he wasn't afraid of the debt of 250 percent to GDP, he said, "No, the Japonec have enough money to buy that debt." Mrs. Schillerová's great product, bonds, right? [[He's showing the bond.]] This is Zdeněk Šikl's bond. That's my friend, retired from Ostrava, still calling me cheap food in Poland, expensive in our country. But I'm saying we have the largest concentration of strings, so let's go somewhere else. He bought that $100,000 bond, and now he gets 6 percent, cool! And what does the Minister of Finance say? He'll take it away from him! What's the target? The goal is to get people to buy state debt because they believe it. And gradually today, how many citizens of the Czech Republic own our state debt? For 80 billion, and that's great, that's over 3%. And that's the right strategy. So the inflation, I'll get back to it. So what's not enough? Where's the inflation? Apartments, of course. The Prime Minister here was talking about it - I didn't get it in your programming statement by the government that you originally said before the election that you were going to build 40,000 flats a year, now it's some 10,000 over something, it's absolutely incomprehensible. Yes, flats are low and prices are rising. So when there's something small, there's inflation! It's logical. And the nonsense that theorists from the Czech National Bank interpret - the only bank in Europe, in the world that still raises interest! Raise! Hell! What's this? There's a mortgage despair coming. Rates are rising. Do you know how many mortgages our citizens took last year? 430 billion, and that's great. Great! And now the CNB, Rusnok's precious, is coming to destroy everything. They're gonna have to pay the mortgage, and how much? 1.5 million people have mortgages worth 1,577 billion. Last year, people took 430 billion mortgages. And why can't they take them? But now, what are the percentages going to pay? Of course, not everyone has a marker. So these are things that are abnormal. [[10.00 hours]] The European Central Bank has a zero rate. Zero, so their citizens pay zero, companies pay zero, citizens pay zero, okay? Then who does it benefit? Of course, banks. They're gonna make money, our banks. They're gonna upgrade loans and people's mortgages. Well, about the apartments, of course, what are you gonna do? We fought for the building bill here, and you're gonna block it. We want to build. We'll support you, we'll build! What place are we at? Somewhere 157 or I don't know. Horrible. So this is the inflation. Prime Minister, please, I hope I was trying to explain. There's only one economist in your government, this is Minister Síkela, a foreign trade graduate like me, only 13 years later. So hopefully your colleagues will explain it to Mr. Síkela, if they don't understand. So it's not our inflation. And what can we do against inflation? Please, why didn't you cancel the VAT on people like us in January? In January, energy prices will jump by 21 percent because of you. Because of you! Why won't you give it to them? Why? I don't get it. So, central bank, disaster. One - neither did the FED raise rates, nor did the British Bank of England, anyone but the CNB, who parrots theoretical nonsense over and over again. That it has an effect? That she's a strong crown? Oh, yeah, so exporters - welcome, you'll be getting less cash. And our domestic industry, which competes with foreign suppliers with a solid crown, so that's the second blow to the knee. So that's it, our famous CNB, of course, independent. But nevertheless, I dare to comment, because, of course, those unions of industry and I don't know who everything is, they're silent. We don't know why, but I guess we do. So that's the thing about inflation. The Czech National Bank, as the only central bank in the European Union, penalizes both its own citizens and the economy, plays banks and thinks that raising interest rates will help someone. Oh, yeah, banks. The CNB will strike a blow to our economy and our citizens, unfortunately, but clearly the new government does not comment much. So I would like to ask you to really reconsider the proposals to support our citizens in terms of electricity and gas, so that you cancel the VAT. This is really the only way to help people overcome the energy crisis, not your inventions, which you're just gonna overwhelm the authorities and force people to walk in there with their hats in their hands to fill out some humiliating form. I see the problem, especially in families who have not yet been entitled to social benefits because they were handling the situation easily. But now they won't have money to live in, but they'll still have relatively high incomes, so they won't reach the benefits anyway. Not to mention, for example, the single mother, who has a job and sometimes two and cares for children, will have to take a vacation, wait for the office of work, try to orientate herself in the complex system, and then she will still have bad luck. Labor agencies can't keep up like this anymore. And I'm curious to see how they're going to prosecute when the number of applicants increases. Simply put, the government will wait for the families to fall into poverty and then offer them help in quotes. But it would make sense to help people from the lower middle class not to fall into poverty at all. But you're not doing anything in that direction. So, because of you people, prices of electricity and gas are going to rise by 21 percent this month just because you can't bite off the fact that our government invented VAT forgiveness. And you just won't admit anything to us. Never! When we opened D1, I said that the first two sections began to be built by Mr. Transport Minister Stanjura, but you never admitted anything to us. Unbelievable! That's the objectivity. In the past, of course, you've been dealing with energy. This only resulted in a solar tunnel worth 1,000 billion, which still costs us 27 billion a year. So I don't know if that's the $80 billion item you're saying you're just gonna make it and cross it off. That's where we differ. We have always invested money in people, traditional parties always into our godfathers, lobbyists, advisors, and especially in ourselves. Our debt was created because the pandemic had arrived and we decided to keep the economy running, not leave people without work and citizens, companies, regions, cities and municipalities to give money. In total, we supported our businesses, businessmen and employees in the framework of anti-covoid programmes of CZK 552.7 billion. Thanks to our actions, household savings increased by 547 billion from October 2019 to October 2021. When household savings went up, how could they do that inflation? That's nonsense, for God's sake. Different experts repeat that, who are, of course, only theorists. And overall, the savings are, I've already said that, 3 323 billion. And you guys canceled those bonds right away. And why did he criticize you even the biggest symbol of post-November corruption, the founder of the ODS B? Everyone knows where our debt went: to the people, to the regions, towns and villages. But no one knows where the money was going that you were in debt to the Czech Republic. We've invested in people for four whole years in our government, either by reducing taxes or by raising salaries. Since 2017, we have reduced taxes by 476,6 billion and the abolition of the supergross wage has increased all employees net earnings by 7 percent. We have maintained a 15% income tax rate for the self-employed. Our movement has been reducing taxes the entire time it's in the government. To the reduced VAT rate of 10 percent we gradually transferred medicines, children's nutrition, books, draft beer, soft drinks, heat supplies, water, sewerage, mass transportation, catering services, hairdressers, repairers and home care. We kept a promise that the average pension would be 15,000. Specifically, it was 15 351 crowns a month last year. And we had 20,000 in the program. You don't really have a number in the government's programming statement. You don't have anything, it's the only one that's 130 percent for teachers, average, otherwise there's no number, nothing, no deadlines. This is so unspecific, unbelievable! So compare it to ours. In 2017, the average pension was CZK 11 745. We've added 1,000 extra crowns a month to people over 85 years of age. In December 2020, each senior received a one-off contribution of CZK 5 000 due to the pandemic. And from 1 January 2023, seniors' pensions will be increased by 500 crowns for each raised child. Well, I wonder what you're gonna do about it. At the beginning of the year, the average pension will increase to CZK 16,271 and further valorisation will take place by CZK 700 in June, so the average pension will be almost 17,000 a month, which is a policy against inflation for pensioners. So that's the law where, due to inflation or inflation, pensioners get another 700 crowns a month in June or July. So I hope you don't take it away from those old people, just like you took it away from the employees. We also added to other groups that you systematically ignored when you were in power. After 12 years, we increased our parental allowance from 220,000 to 300,000. We had $400,000 on the program, you got nothing. For the singles, we've approved replacement maintenance. We increased our foster parents' fees and pushed for the abolition of infant formulas. We raised the care allowance in the third category from CZK 9,900 to CZK 13,900 a month and in the fourth category from CZK 13,200 to CZK 19,200 a month. And we made sure that wages grew. In 2017, the average wage was CZK 29,504 and CZK 37,043 at the end of 2021. The minimum wage in 2017 was CZK 11 000 and we have increased to CZK 16 200 since January. In the government's programming statement, you're talking about some kind of pattern that it's tied to something. Well, I'm just waiting for you to figure it out. [[10.10 hours]] In 2021, teachers received an average of CZK 45,342 a month - just as we promised. In 2013, after your governments, the salary of the teachers was CZK 26,111 a month, and you, Prime Minister, through Madam President, as Minister of Education for a year and a half, increased the salary of the teachers by a dizzying CZK 122, we by 20,000. On average, non-edagogues received 25,000 gross, and in 2013 it was only 15 180. The average salary for soldiers increased to CZK 40,451 last year. Police officers and firefighters took over 50 000 on average, nurses 58 200 and social services workers 35 880 CZK. For GDP per capita in purchasing power parity - and now listen, citizens, when someone says that we are in bad shape, because of course this is not true - in purchasing power parity, we got to 94 percent of the European Union's average last year. We passed Portugal, Spain and Italy. And in the Czech Republic, after two years of pandemic, the level of threat to income poverty is one of the lowest in the European Union. And what did you do first? Well, you normally took people's money. And how did Prime Minister Fiala promise that before the election? For me - he said - for me it is important that we save on the state, its operation, and not on the people. Promises - mistakes. All you had to do was break the first promise for a month, and the next one would be quick to follow. You've frozen your salaries for paramedics, non-teaching workers and officials, and you've cut the money for soldiers, police officers and firefighters to such an extent that there's no way it's gonna cover inflation. And to the teachers you claim to be your priority, you've given extra ridiculous 2%. Really, however, their income will fall by at least four. It is often about processes that have opened up the whole pandemic. Only the paramedics couldn't touch the money, because the 6 percent you're bragging about now pushed our government into the payment decree. It took a month in office to lower people's standard of living, and you saved people's wages by attacking people all over 5 billion or four and a half, while they were in the draft of our budget. It's not true, as the minister says, they weren't there. There were 13 billion of those salaries, and you took them away from them. But of course, when it comes to your pockets, you can be extraordinarily generous. When I suggested freezing politicians' salaries, your senators wiped it out because it was supposed to be populism and it wasn't dignified. Now that you've figured out that people don't like it, you promised to freeze salaries for a year, and the senators suddenly transferred the high school to support it now. But before you can approve it, or you've already approved it for a year yesterday, and we wanted it to be five, because we think that Members' incomes are really above standard, so the salaries have risen by 6% since February anyway. And even if you could make it, you suggested freezing the judges' salaries, so you're probably counting on them to attack it, and the Constitutional Court, as in the past, will cancel the entire salary freeze. So you guys are off the hook because you wanted to freeze your salaries. And yesterday, the Minister here, the head of the Government Legislative Council, actually said on a microphone that he didn't recommend it and that he didn't say it, but it could happen. So you guys are off the hook because you wanted to freeze your salaries, but I don't think people are gonna buy it. And for that hypocrisy, you could get the Nobelův Prize. The freeze is not serious at all. But if you need to find spots for five hungry coalition necks, there's no problem. You have created an 18-member government, including three utterly useless ministers without portfolio and their expensive devices. There are so many of you - and I don't want to repeat Nacher here, yes, the Minister is sitting in the second bench, but they have all heard - that we have never had so many ministers before. We have reduced the number of seats in the Office of the Government. 267 seats in the Office of the Government have been reduced, which is 33 percent. You accepted 74 extra people on Strakovk, the state's bill comes on salary for another 43 million a year. You're re-establishing the practice of political deputies for worthy parties, and especially for round-edged pirates with a salary of 2 million a year. In the House, you have established a record number of Vice-Presidents, including one for Pirates, who have all four MPs, but the SPD, who have five times as many, you have blocked their candidate, as true genuine Democrats. And the pirát, who are slowly more in office than the seats in the House, have then, contrary to the law, allowed you to create your own parliamentary club to receive more money and benefits. In less than a month since you've not even warmed up in office, you've already dropped your mask. You've been talking about how you're gonna change for the better. You have begun to conduct political cleansing without having the confidence of the House. Mr. Jurečka, Minister of Agriculture, recalled the Director of the Forests of the Czech Republic, Mrs. Černochová called off the head of the Military Forests. Yesterday I think, or when, Mr. called off, I don't know which minister, because it's all probably supervised by Mr. Jurečka, the head of the exhibition centre in České Budějovice. And, of course, Mr.Válek rushed with the newsroom for the main symbol of the corruption of the post-November cartel in the history of the Czech Republic. And, of course, Mr. Rakušan put the crown on everything, who, without being a minister at all, forced the police president to resign at a secret meeting. He also surpassed such infamous legends in the abuse of functions such as Chovanec and Langer. The secret meetings are gradually leaking to the surface, and that's probably the new style of our new Home Secretary. Mr. Rakušan's arrogant response to the strange financing of STAN speaks for itself. Hundreds of thousands of crowns from the loss-making Czech companies owned by Cyprus's tax haven go to the account of the STAN movement with an opaque property structure that is probably linked to the main godfather of the STAN movement, his Vice-President and solar baron Michalik, but Mr Rakušan does not see the problem. It has a Czech IČO, so it's okay, says Mr. Rakušan. No wonder, no matter what, he wanted to become Home Secretary and step on the police president. What if some cop wanted to investigate the crime scene? So STAN gets money of unknown origin and it might be good to, if the Cypriot company is owned by Mr. Michalik's wife to show where she taxed the money. [[Take it?]] I'm the only politician here who's shown a tax return from 1996 to 2016, 20 years from when Sobotka kicked me out of the government. So STAN's money of unknown origin is being sent from a tax haven through bogus losing Czech companies that make white horses, and he launders that money in his transparent account. What about our square, a million moments? Well, nobody, not even the corrupt nonprofit Transparency International, prefers to keep quiet, 'cause he probably wants to get those subsidies from the Home Office, like they got in the past. Well, of course, Mr. Rakušan is attacking us and his arrogance could be written about a novel. But he could write a novel by Mr. Bartoš, because on his back with STAN's under belt ringing campaign, he climbed up to the House. But to be fair, when it came to breaking bread, the pirát quickly forgot their principles. For example, Mr Bartoš has long criticized the accumulation of functions, so he is now a minister and a Member at the same time. You see, we were serious about the struggle for a slippery mandate, and we supported it, but on your part, it was just a voter scam. Now Mr Farský will cheat 15 479 voters who circled him to represent them in the House and disappear for six months to study for America and write a paper on how to deprive the Czech Republic of the last rest of sovereignty in 25 years. Well, that's a really good job. He won't give up on the mandate, he's getting paid, but he says he's going to send his salary to nonprofits. So I don't know what kind of work he's supposed to be flying from Oregon to Prague. Maybe the House will pay for that. Every day and every act you do, you prove to people that you're not here for them, but mostly for you and your interests. For example, last year a Member for STAN Pávek lobbied after meetings with Mr Michalik to make a significant increase in the disproportionate yield of photovoltaic power operators. And today, Mr. Pávek says he met with Michalik just to inform him of the law. He said he didn't even know he was dealing with a solar baron. Well, that's ridiculous, the height of arrogance. [[10.20 hours]] But you mentor me and our government that we care little about the future of our country and our citizens? I wonder what that is, because I see the opposite. We created the National Investment Plan until 2050, where we mapped 20,000 project projects worth 8,000 billion, from which you can draw. So those 200 kilometers of highways-- and by the way, we had 269 kilometers in the program-- so you have them ready. Minister Kupek will do just fine if he makes it happen, as we have prepared. 200 kilometers of bypasses, first-class roads, city bypasses and municipalities, which will be operational in the next four years, which you have included - and this is great - in your government programming statement, you will only open up because we have done all the work for you. We found the money for it, we pushed through the projects, we started building. It's our heirloom. It just happened to fall in your lap. When you were in power, how many new kilometers of highways did you start? In 2011 - zero, 2012 - zero, 2013 - 800 meters, 2014 - zero kilometers. We had to start the whole construction after you, and that takes years. Nevertheless, between 2018 and 2021 we opened 292.3 kilometers of motorways and first-class roads, of which 105.8 kilometers of new motorways on a green meadow, 89.1 kilometers of roads of first classes and 97.4 kilometers of brand-new D1. There are currently 217.5 kilometres of new motorways and first-class roads. The projects and work on the D4 between Příbram and Písek have already started, the work on D3, D35, D6, D7, D55 continues. Today, we are building highways more than half as cheap as the golden era of the ODS with the miraculously rich Řebíček, when a kilometer came to the state cashier at 342 million. We're worth a mile worth $12 million. But at least I hope and I am glad that the new minister did not have to buy a post, as it was during the reign of the greatest villain, who unfortunately became Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. And I think Mr Bendl might have a long story about it. Not to mention the railroad where we accelerated the connections and upgraded the lines. This reduced the driving time between Prague and Plzeň to 74 minutes. In 2023, when the modernisation of the railway line from Prague to České Budějovice ends, it will take 90 minutes between the two cities. We also renovated an average of 70 railway stations a year. Since 2016, we have allocated projects worth 10 billion. For example, buildings in Sokolov, Český Krumlov, Hanušovice, Havířov, Příbram, Břeclav or railway station passed through repairs along the route of the Posázava Pacific. The listed buildings in Pilsen, České Budějovice, Pardubice, Fanta building of the Main Railway Station in Prague are now being repaired. The reconstruction of the beautiful monument building of the Teplice railway station is being prepared. We have also reconstructed a lot of cultural monuments - unfortunately, there is very little in the government's programming declaration - like the Prague State Opera and the National Museum. We opened this on the 100th anniversary of the creation of Czechoslovakia. We started the restoration of Prague's Invalidovna. I hope those projects continue. The garden of Strakova akademie, which I hope will also serve citizens, the Art Nouveau Spa opposite the Office of the Government, Libušín in Pustevnách, the castle Karlštejn, Kunětická hora, the Imperial Spa in Karlovy Vary. For five years we prepared a project for the construction of the Museum of Totalitarianism in Uherské Hradiště, which was visited by Prime Minister Fiala this week. I'm glad he expressed his support for the project. It's ready, there's money, and I'm glad it's going to continue. Yet, Prime Minister, through Madam President, there is a great project Petrkov. This is also a project which, in my opinion, the Minister of Culture should complete and continue as we started it. Last year more than CZK 3 billion went to the new sports centre, which is as much as it went to the whole sport in 2013. In 2021, sport, for example, was supported by youth clubs or the development of sport infrastructure in small municipalities of record 11.8 billion. The money could have gone there because we wiped out black souls, put in place transparent funding. I don't know why anyone's talking about the agency that it's not working. We cut off various godparents and lobbyists who secretly split money at the Intercontinental Bar or in the apartment in Senovážná náměstí. We also fired these lobbyists from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health. So the Šnajdr and the Dalík who are about to return - we didn't let them. Without these various leeches, we could finally modernize the army and our hospitals. So we were able to buy French guns, Israeli anti-aircraft kits, new guns and assault rifles from Czech Armory, American multipurpose helicopters, Israeli radio-locators, two CASA aircraft, portable Israeli anti-aircraft rocket kits, wheeled armoured vehicles and off-road vehicles. The Ministry of Defence has concluded nearly 42,000 transparent contracts for 150 billion. Compared to 2013, the army's budget increased by 100 percent. We have fulfilled our promise to increase the budget to 1.4 percent of GDP and paved the way for a commitment of 2 percent of GDP, although I am skeptical that you will succeed in 2025, given that GDP is then to be nearly 7,300 billion, the military should have a budget of nearly 150 billion. You're putting 140, 150 out of today's 91 billion. I really will keep my fingers crossed by the Minister, although I don't think it's real. But I believe that Minister Černochová, thanks to her energy, will convince and overwhelm the Minister of Finance to fulfill that promise, and in 2025, the military will receive 2% of GDP. You have absolutely our support. As far as health is concerned, you have remained so corrupt that in 2013, the European Commission issued a special report called Health Corruption Report. She even indirectly named Mr. Šnajdr there, so he was famous. So I strongly hope that you will not privatize hospitals again, as was the case in the past in the Central Bohemia Region, Louny and other places. We have supported Czech health care with huge amounts and launched unprecedented investments, because our doctors, who belong to the world's top, simply deserve it, and especially our citizens. Our health care has always been a priority for us, as well as for it to be free and accessible to all. If it stays that way under your rule, I have strong doubts. Mr. new Minister Válek said in the first interview that waiting in the office or waiting room for six hours is normal and actually going to the doctor is like buying a ticket to Barcelona, but in short, better care will be given to the rich. But we don't want health care here for the rich and the others. We want health care for everyone. I would like to say to the Prime Minister, through Madam President, that he should leave Minister Válek there, because you do not have to comment on such chaos. He'll do our job on his own. When he makes the next day's cancellations, he makes excuses for officials, and a few days later, he talks about Mr. Policar and Mrs. Svrčinová as saints. In schools and businesses, he decides to use antigen tests that don't even detect micron, while promising the best. But we bought those tests by the end of February, and now you've changed the frequency of testing. He forgot about the promise that people with a test could go to the pub long ago, as well as the recognition of antibodies. He's got four or five options on hand, and he's guaranteed to pick the worst. Employers are required to report employees who refuse to be tested. With Mr. Rakušan, they want to introduce a work quarantine. The work quarantine regime means that instead of quarantined houses, the employee will go to work, including officials at the employment offices that you have frozen salaries or social services workers and hospitals. Well, I don't know if it would be better to cancel the quarantine altogether. But there's more. Minister Válek answered the question of what to do with people who refuse to test themselves. He says that an employee who refuses to test himself can, for example, work on the Ministry's doorway at the back entrance, where cars are released where they don't have to be tested, and in similar types of traffic. So, folks, if you don't want to test yourself, report to the back door of the Ministry of Health. [[Fun in the hall.]] The address is Palackého 375/4, Prague 2. And the best for last. Do you know how Minister Válek explains that people and even journalists don't understand him anymore? That could be because I'm from Brno using a hantec. [[Laughter from the YES ranks.]] So maybe it would be a good idea for the minister to have a Czech interpreter beside him besides the translator to sign language. [[10.30 hours]] So, on the one hand, I sympathize with Prime Minister Fiala because it shows how hard it is to hide his suffering when he is standing on the press conference next to Mr. Válek. I get it, you're a five-wheeler, and if I had a minister like that, I'd fire him right at the press conference. The Prime Minister is suffering because Mr. Válek explains something and no one understands it. So that kind of minister is really priceless for us, and I think we're looking forward to working together. Of course, you've found that it's different to be in opposition and to give princely advice and to be in it. But we have prepared everything for you, we have prepared everything for you! And the last time I checked, the Prime Minister said there were some employees there who made a mistake, and they were actually responsible. But I would just like to say that these are the employees that Minister Heger put there for the TOP 09, for example, the head of the legislative department is for the TOP 09, and Mr Policar came to see Mr. Nemecko, so they're civil servants under the public service, and it's interesting that of course... What would you do without them? Health care, then. For us we systematically increased the amount of money, from 322 billion in 2017 to over 550 billion CZK in 2021, a total of 228 billion. Health never had that kind of money, never. We negotiated 50 billion out of European funds for health care. For the Nečasův period, the non-time government negotiated only 8 billion. From national sources we invested over 16,5 billion crowns in modernization and reconstruction of hospitals and another 5.5 billion crowns in instruments. Thanks to the React-EU program, our health care will receive another 20 billion to purchase state-of-the-art equipment. We have approved and started implementing 12 strategic investments amounting to CZK 12 billion, which will be implemented by 2027. Therefore, thanks to us at the turn of 2023 and 2024 you will open a brand new pavilion in IKEM - transplantation - for a billion. Yes, our transplant doctors are the best in Europe. Vienna, Berlin, Prague - best transplant in IKEM. And I certainly hope you don't stop building a hospital in Bohunice, it's in Brno. Most of the government is from Moravia, you have a conflict of interest, but I support it. When the chief told me that for 20 years someone went there and that she wasn't the new maternity ward, Mrs. Schillerová and I pushed it. It's a project. So please support it and finish it. Apolinář, so the Pražák can have something, a new, great project. Ask Professor Pařízek how many prime ministers were born there - their wives. [[Fun.]] I wasn't born there, my children and my granddaughters were born in Neratovice. And who promised them everything? And there is a great project, so I would like to ask the Minister, through Madam President, to complete these projects because they are great. Thanks to us, we will build the most modern prevention center in Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute, and again in Brno, but it doesn't matter. It's the only cancer hospital in our country, great, Žluťák, perfect, great people. And I have fought, and I have discussed with the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen. We did a national fight against cancer, a national fight. Program, yes. And I say that oncological hospital, top in the world, would deserve not only Moravia but also Czechs based in Prague. So it would be good for you to implement this project, and the money I personally negotiated, you spent transparently and you did not lose the 14.5 billion earmarked to fight cancer somewhere along the way. This, Minister, is the prospectus, at the birth of which I stood, through Madam President. [[He's pointing.]] You screamed before the election that it was a campaign, but I repeat again: I don't know how long this House will last today, but every 20 minutes in the Czech Republic a person dies of cancer, and cancer is crap. There's no vaccine for cancer. Our doctors have a great treatment, but people have to go to prevention, and this has to be promoted. You banned the prospectus. I understand, this is Adam Vojtěch... [[He's listing in the prospectus.]] I pushed myself to the end. But the office that oversees the funding of the parties confirmed that it wasn't a campaign, it wasn't. But it's our work. You normally ignore it in the government's programming statement, you have one word about oncology, and it's a huge problem. In 2035 more people will die from cancer than ischemic diseases. Today it's 48,000 for ischemic diseases and 27,000 for cancer. And so it is in Europe, and I have discussed it with the Commissioner. So please stop defending it, put it at people's disposal, leave it to the insurance companies, put the Babiš and Vojtěch away, put your picture in there, I don't care. I did it for people! To read it, that's great... Here are our best oncologists, the best. There's about 19 of them. So I'd like... the election's over, you won, I won't comment on how, so cancer. You don't even have it in the government's programming statement. And we have so many cancer people around us, I'm still dealing with it, still going to prevent it, because no vaccine can save it. And it's very important. I'm continuing with health care. We have introduced new transparent rules for public procurement, pushed through the combined purchases of hospitals and debted a number of them, stopped our doctors and nurses leaving abroad for better and increased the capacity of medical faculties to ensure that there are enough doctors in the future. I was intrigued by your government's programming statement that you would motivate our doctors to come home. Well, I don't know how you guys figured it out, but I'm gonna support you because when he was covid and we were dealing with our pendlers, if they stayed home, then Munich, Dresden and Vienna could slide. Without our doctors, they wouldn't have done anything in hospitals. But that's an interesting project, and if it makes sense, why not? Since January, patients have had much better access to innovative medicines such as cystic fibrosis, muscle dystrophy or various haematooncological diagnoses. We have enforced 90 percent of the payment of medical cannabis, we have extended the number of paid aids, for example, by a second mechanical trolley. We fought for the employees to cancel the period for the first three days of the disease. For three years, we've been focusing on cancer prevention - I've already said that. We developed a national plan to fight cancer, initiated the creation of the Czech Cancer Institute in Prague and published the brochure I was showing here. We've made great progress in digitization. We introduced eRecipe and from March will start to work ePoukáz na medical aids. These are specific things that help people today and daily, not the IZIP two billion-dollar tunnel, as you did digitalizing before us. It wasn't just an eRecipe, because of the pandemic, there was a clever quarantine, eRouška, tečka, čtečka and eneschopenka. We expanded the data boxes, introduced electronic tax returns, pushed through an electronic highway sign. From the UN's assessment of the digitization of public administration, we jumped from 53rd place in 2013 to last year's 39th place. [[10.40 hours]] I could go on for a long time, but I'll make it short. We invested not only in our people, transport infrastructure and health care, but also in our landscape and nature. We replaced 100,000 boilers, after programs like Rainbow or New Green Savings just dusted. We have started the largest planting of forests in the history of our country after the barking calamity left to us by Mr. Jurečka, who, as minister, did not give a penny. While our government spent 17 billion on it. Since 2017, 640 million trees have been planted, 124 thousand hectares have been forested, twice the Šumava National Park. At the same time, we have prepared a decline in coal mining and a tender for another block in Dukovany to have enough electricity and to meet our targets for reducing emissions. By the way, emissions, bark, core, that reminds me of a Green Deal that you're not constantly telling the truth about. So let me get this straight, even though, of course, you've heard it before. Green Deal is a political commitment, nothing was signed. Now 13 different directives will follow, and there will show how you will fight. And I can say that we have negotiated a great position for the Czech Republic. Firstly, we have negotiated that we can get up to CZK 1,000 billion into the Modernization Fund in which we can draw. And we could've helped people out of that money, but you don't want it. This is money for a green transformation, please go beyond the seven-year budget, thanks to which the Czech Republic will receive 978 billion, out of which 42 billion I have won my extra strength. Secondly, we fought with France for two years together and pushed the core and natural gas as low-emission resources. So it's not now, it took two years for us to choose our own energy mix. And most importantly, we de facto have no commitment within the Green Deal. The Czech Republic has nowhere written what to do. We fought with Poland that the average commitment of all Member States is 55 per cent, so if we get to 47 per cent and that's where we get the crust, it would be 42 per cent without the bark. So that's the advantage that we don't have a specific commitment under the Green Deal. We signed up for the average. So if Denmark - the Prime Minister has propellers all over the sea and produces 70 percent of her current with renewable resources, then of course we don't have it. Of course, I agree that Europe has gone mad and wants to save the world from emissions, which it produces only 9 per cent, but not to participate in the Green Deal would mean de facto not being in the EU. We are supposed to get European money, which we can, of course, use and give the maximum amount of money for projects such as foresting the landscape, increasing water availability, water retention in the countryside, energy savings and other sensible proposals. Fortunately, you don't have to deal with money at all. We negotiated them for you, so all you have to do is invest them wisely and maximize European funds. So please no ROP Northwest as in the past, but drain transparently. And if anyone doesn't know, that's 972 billion and that 1,000 billion, that's budget collection. That's why we always said the debt was one of the lowest, and that's budget collection. So GDP growth, investment, European money, almost 2,000 billion, that's how we wanted to consolidate our finances, which are in great shape. The negotiations in Brussels, of course, are waiting for Prime Minister Fiala and will be ruthless. There you will understand behind the door that sayings about European solidarity are just talk. Behind closed doors, every country plays hard for itself. And the Prime Minister, at a time when you have green fantasmagoria as a ban on combustion engines, reducing the number of emission allowances - this is an incredible mess, because it is indeed the destruction of European industry, it destroys mainly industrial countries and still nobody wants to hear about it - so, of course, at this point, the Prime Minister has divided the European agenda, you have a new minister, now the Foreign Minister and himself and the secretaries. So I don't understand who the sash is. The šerpa is the most important thing, the sherpa is the executive prime minister, and the sherpas are still talking to each other. So is it Minister Bek now, or is she the new political deputy? I'm surprised the Prime Minister let it go, but okay. And that you're building it at the Office of the Government, fine. But why don't you cancel the entire EU department at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I mean, that's completely unnecessary. That's a duplicate, yes. This agenda is supposed to be under the Prime Minister's office, and you can spare it, because it's all duplicated. And it would be good, and I just suggest you really have this agenda in your hands. But maybe you've got it all figured out differently. But of course you speak English, that's great news, because a third of your ministers, as we've learned, even if you have it in the program, don't speak. So with the Presidency, he will be running around in the galleys with an interpreter behind his back, which I'm sure our partners will appreciate, especially with the Czech Presidency. So the politics, I don't know what she's like. You're still talking V4. So please, we've talked about this, Prime Minister, even in the past. I'm at your disposal to give you that information. The V4 is a block representing 65 million people. And if you look, when Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, was elected, where did she go first? Well, Paris, of course, and then Warsaw. And so is Olaf Scholz, the new German chancellor. Where'd he go? First to Paris and then to Warsaw. So don't trust the reporters who tell you what a V4 is. You'll understand behind closed doors, that's where all the prime ministers and presidents sit. We have France, you have Emmanuel Macron on your left, you have Magdalena on your right, the Swedish Prime Minister, the former Treasury Secretary. And who do you want to look for? What allies? We have them, they're all there. You have to create those personal relationships, you have to create them. And I don't understand the expression that we want to find someone new here. We've always been looking for good relationships with everyone, always. And that, of course, is the role of the Prime Minister, and then you can take advantage of it. When there were no vaccines, we were given vaccines by our friends from V4, Sebastian Kurz. Viktor Orbán gave us 150 new fans and vaccines. The Serbian Prime Minister gave me 100,000 Pfizer/BioNTech within 12 days, as he sat in kramářův's villa, it came. Angela Merkel lent us an antidote cocktail before she left, and she finally gave it to us 20,000 doses. These are the personal relationships that need to be built. And please don't believe the press they're talking about, that's nonsense. Behind that door are the premieres themselves, there's no one else there. And there, when they tell you that you're going to hand over your phones now and the jammers are on, you're going to see what they're saying. But certainly not what some here say. The Czech Presidency. I really don't understand why anyone keeps saying we underestimated it. We haven't underestimated it at all. It's ready. All you have to do is read the website at the Office of the Government. We've increased the budget to 1.44 billion. We have doubled the number on permanent representation in Brussels to more than 250 workers. And again, I point out that all preparations were under the authority of the officials. The only thing I pushed through was for the main summit, and that's what the premiere's about, was at the Prague Castle in the Spanish Hall, because that's our symbol, where we can show off. I attended four of those summits, and some of those places were horrible, horrible. Don't think that the Prime Minister or the President, when he gets somewhere, that he wants to go somewhere for two more hours, I don't know if you want to organize it in Brno for example. No, they're always in a hurry, everybody's in a hurry, so the Spanish Hall. And it's not the president, it's nonsense. When we started negotiating, Mr. President's surroundings weren't thrilled that we wanted to do it there. So I only wanted two things, and that was the Spanish O.R. and a gift for the premieres and presidents. I wanted Moser. For me, Moser is the most. They picked Rückel, whatever. [[10.50 hours]] Just don't say it's not ready. And I am glad that Minister Bek, through Madam President, yesterday Politico, Lili, who has always annoyed us with text messages - clearly Brussels-oriented - said that it is well prepared. [[server]] [[journalist]] [[Bayer]] [[is]] What a surprise! So we're here to support this Presidency, okay? And we will support it. Once again, it's ready, it's up to the officials, but it would be good to figure out who's actually speaking for... Our policy is done by the government. Please also take a look at the statistics on how much of our sales with Poland, with Hungary, who invested here, did not invest. These are our allies. V4 is a strong block. Yes? And now that Prime Minister Orbán's statement, which was distorted and the headline was in some way... at least I checked it out, mainly he called to... to take care of Hungarian citizens. I understand that there is an election coming up and that somebody wants to drive a wedge into the V4, but Poland has 40 million inhabitants. And V4, of course, we can have fun - we have a problem with Turów, all of this, yes. But we have pushed them together in these crucial matters, because the great advantage is that the European Council is blocking itself. If you don't agree, it's not. Illegal migration has stopped quotas, you don't have to do that anymore. You're still writing that down in the government's programming statement, that's done. Core, gas, woods, it's all there. So... and the V4 is important. Let us hope that this will turn out well for the Presidency and that it will not be as embarrassing as it was in 2009. We offer you a helping hand as well as in the fight against pandemics, in promoting measures to maintain a standard of living in support of families with children, in modernising the army, in building roads and highways, in combating green madness and so on. We won't have a problem supporting early retirement, it's interesting that you have it there, but you didn't write, at what age, reducing social security by 2%, I was talking about it, and of course budget of 2% per GDP. Since you're suggesting it, I'm sure you've got it covered in your budget. We will not display, like you from the opposition, a nihilistic and destructive policy that takes our country and our citizens hostage. Our program will not at all cost criticize and reconstruct everything. Our program is not anti-coalic. Our programme is prosperity of the Czech Republic and its citizens. Even from the opposition, we will continue to strive to improve life in our country as we have done for the last four years in government. What I was talking about here clearly proves that for four years we have been thinking about the future of our country and have worked hard to improve life for all our citizens. And it's just a fraction of what our government did. We have fulfilled the vast majority of our electoral promises and the vast majority of our government's programming statements. And if the pandemic hadn't arrived, we'd only been in full control for two years, we'd have done so much more. I don't know which other government can prove such clear results. I'd like to get back to the pandemic. Indeed, I am always amazed when you demagogically try to dehoneze, dehoneze our work, and not just our colleagues, but also other colleagues. Minister Rakušan is now telling Mrs Vildumetzová about the pandemic on Sunday. Could you tell me what you were doing? Could you tell me where the vaccination centers are? Where are the inoculated people, where are the vaccination doctors, the practitioners? Well, that's unbelievable. I can talk here for two hours about how it started, how we found out in January 2020 that we have a useless chief hygienist who doesn't even have the education to do it, and who said that the virus from China wouldn't come. When we found out they didn't even have phones on the health department, 10. 3. 2020 we called IT experts from Keeboly, we discussed the lines where we... You privatized the labs, the hygiene, the completely decentralized, the hygiene, so we found out that we have how many masks in the state's material reserves? Ten thousand! Do you know how many state-owned material reserves you now have of medical supplies? 160 million! Ten thousand - 160 million. We found out we had 50-year-old beds, so we called LINET. We found out we don't have ventilators, oxygenators. I personally called New Zealand against our competitors and secured 1,700 oxygenators. We used to carry drapes, respirators, from China, from everywhere. I don't know, you forgot everything we did? And this is what the Minister would like to say what we were doing? And how many of these centers are there now? What time is it, what time is it? Come on, 499 vaccination centers! What have you done, Minister, through Madam President, Minister Rak... [[Ushan]] What did you do? You didn't do anything. You didn't get one vaccine. I got 600,000. You were negotiating a Bamlanivimap that came in 15. 2. 2021 and saving people? Or Regeneron? Or other medications? Did you deal with Isoprinosine or Ivermectin? What did you do? You didn't do anything, we did all this. O2 arena, when Mounajjed came, so I went to the ÚVN. And the hospital did it. It was the best vaccination center in the world at a speed. Ten minutes. And kotva and Olympia and BVV, yes, along with Mrs. Mayor Brno. Yes, we did all that. This is what we've been doing, morning to night. Yes, we did, and it's incredible that you're actually allowed to say what we did? I could talk about this here for two hours. I could talk about it for two hours, two hours! So I would very much like you to be objective. You even in the government's programming statement somewhere in the beginning, you're talking about something that you're talking about... [[He's looking in writing.]] Here we have on the front page, you say, "We don't want, we mustn't and we won't lie to the citizens." Well, that didn't work. Last sentence of the preamble: We will work constructively with each other and with the opposition. So please, let's work together, but we're telling each other the truth. You can't completely ignore the fact that we've done our best here for the pandemic. The vaccine, as always critical of us, is not vaccines, then we donated vaccines. [[If you do not]] Yes, solidarity. Israel gave us vaccines, Course, Slovenia and others. So I'm shocked by this... And I've got... I think I've been talking for a long time. I've got it all on two sides here, it's called Vlastimil Válek zmatek, but I'd rather not read it, I'll save it for the next performance. I just want to say in conclusion: we can work out the materials we've done for the pandemic. And the pandemic - what are you doing with the pandemic right now? We even bought the tests on February. You just said you wanted them sooner, so fine, the money's for it. The drug has been ordered here, so you, in fact, with pandemics... everything goes down, praise bůh, and thank you for that, and hopefully it'll be good. I hope I don't jinx it, I don't see that covid is a major problem. We're going back to normal, and that's great news. I'm sure we're glad. Oh, please don't tell the truth. Don't tell the untruths about covid, what we've done, don't tell the untruths about the Presidency, don't say not really about debt. So let me say this again: we are the sixth least-indebted country in the European Union, GDP per head 94 per cent of the European average, average wage 37 000, average pension will be almost 17 000. The lowest unemployment in Europe, the least risk of risk of poverty, the ninth safest country in the world, the top and free health care, young people in the Czech Republic need not start working life with debt due to college studies. Finally, after years of massive construction and reconstruction, from highways to hospitals to cultural monuments. Our nature and air quality are best in twenty-nine years of existence of the independent Czech Republic. This is the real situation in which we handed you our country. And I wrote to the Prime Minister: The Czech Republic is a country that thrives. Thanks to the work of our government, you have something to build on, you have everything ready, everything. [[11.00 hours]] In less than a month, you were able to manage political capital and cheat your own voters. You promised to save money on the state, but you're saving money on professions that keep the state running and fight the pandemic - soldiers, hygienists, policemen, firefighters and teachers. For yourself, you create new spots and newsstands. You promised experts, but you recycled politicians who don't speak English. You promised better political culture. You have shown arrogance, cynicism and hypocrisy. You don't care about people. Just like after the 2010 election, you didn't deny your DNA now. Before the election, you promise one thing, you do the opposite after them. You cheated people again. You haven't changed at all, and your government's programming statement is a mixture of take-off promises, vague statements, commitments without deadlines and non-speaking floscules. Therefore, I must make it clear to you that the YES movement cannot in any way pronounce such a government's trust. And I'd like to give the Prime Minister here, if he's here, the National Investment Plan and the Cancer Prospect, Prime Minister. [[He's handing over to Prime Minister Purple.]] It's very important, and I thank you for that. So thank you for your attention and we look forward to working with the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I am in charge of the meeting. Let me wish you all the best for the new year. The President of the ANO movement, Mr Andrej Babiš, spoke with priority in the general debate, and now, in that order, as I have received, the President of the Alena Schillerová parliamentary club will speak. At this point, I give her my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, but before I take the floor, I would like to draw attention to resolution 31 of the 1996 Chamber of Deputies, which states that all members of the Government will attend the opening meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the approval of its agenda and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is a request from the Czech Government for a vote of confidence. There's no way I want us to repeat what happened here during the time our government asked for trust, when we had to report sanitary breaks in some kind of humiliating way for me. There's no way I want that. On the other hand, I expect some respect for the Chamber of Deputies, in which, of course, the opposition, and I expect that it will not be here - I appreciate that the Prime Minister is here - only five or six members of the government, but that all members of the government will be here. We're not really going to measure here, that's below who, when, how long he's been gone. I understand that everyone has to go to the bathroom, but I don't understand if he's just not here for an hour or two. So I would ask, Madam Vice-President, if we can agree that the members of the government will return to the Chamber because we do not want to prolong negotiations on the trust of this government by being forced to take breaks. So, please, and I believe that the members of the government will return to the meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u7	Madam President, I'll step in. Yes, I will confirm that this resolution of July 23, quoted here, is valid and effective. At this point, I would call on all the members of the government to comply with this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u8	So I'd like a five-minute recess, please. I think it is sufficient for the members of the government to return to the meeting room. Others can use it for other purposes. And then, if you don't mind, I'd go back to the counter and give my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u9	Thank you. At the request of the ANO MEP's club, I am declaring a five-minute break until 11.09 hours. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 11.04 to 11.09 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss today's meeting. Again, let me remind you of what was said here from the mouth of the President of the Alena Schillerová Assembly Club. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 3rd meeting of 20 July 1996 on the participation of the members of the Government in the meetings of the Chamber of Deputies and I will read again the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies states that all members of the Government will attend the opening meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until the approval of its agenda and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is a request from the Government of the Czech Republic for a vote of confidence." Again, I would ask for this resolution to be followed. As I have announced, another with priority rights on the matter of a motion for a vote of confidence to the Government is signed up to the chair of the ANO Alena Schillerová Group of Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u11	I would ask for peace in the hall, and if you need to deal with some questions to do so in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u12	When I was preparing for today's meeting, I tried to read the government's programming statement really with an open mind, and I gave him extraordinary care and, of course, a considerable amount of time. I also approached the recently published coalition agreement and the parties' agendas before the elections. The direction our new government intends to lead our country is important to me not only as a mother, a grandmother, but also as a politician who has faced many times in the pre-election keys in discussions with representatives of the government coalition. In these discussions, I repeatedly had to deal with the absence of concrete plans by my political opponents, especially aspirants as Finance Minister, who were chasing as much ambitious and unrealistic targets as possible, the more emptier the emptiness was when they were to describe how they were going to practically go about it. Okay, I was thinking, maybe the electoral programs don't give specific savings, and colleagues who were skewing like Messi in the pre-election discussions, maybe they'll unpack it after the election, if they get an opportunity to do it from the voters, and then they'll properly and specifically process it and submit, let's say, no later than after the discussions with coalition partners, and the concrete savings will then incarnate into the coalition treaty. But that's not what happened. The coalition agreement, as we know, does not talk about any specific savings. On the contrary, it comes with ideas that mean an annual axe of at least CZK 70 billion. The third and biggest disappointment so far, one could say almost ridicule, is the government's programming statement. Yes, a mockery. Excuse me, but I really don't know what else to call such a general and non-speaking phrase as - I quote: "We will find savings and determine the long-term direction of public finances and ensure sound management of the state as soon as possible. " Or: "Our goal is to ensure that budget savings do not deteriorate the situation of citizens who cannot do without support from the state. " Or, "We want a state that doesn't live on debt." Or: "We want a state that is smart, efficient and economical." Exactly such terms at the level of the Pocket Guide for Political Marketing are being dealt with by the government, which is trying to present itself as a savior of public finances. Such phrases are crawling with programming statements. I'd be lying if I looked surprised, in fact, there was nothing else to expect. The fact is that the government does not have any savings beyond what any responsible government would have done in the post-covid period. The government's submitted programming statement not only does it contain no relevant austerity measures, but it does not even contain any specific figures. Among the lines, it can be deduced from the mention of Maastricht rules that the deficit should probably not exceed 3% of GDP by the end of the parliamentary term. Nothing more, nothing less, 3% of GDP. I would like to stress that this is a significantly slower pace of consolidation than planned by the Government of Andrej Babiš. As you can easily see in open sources, for example from the fiscal outlook of the Ministry of Finance of November 2022, as well as completely autonomous developments, i.e. if the government did nothing at all, it would lead to a balance of 2,9% of GDP at the end of 2025. [[2021?]] And if austerity measures were actually implemented, the deficit could be conveniently below 2,5 percent. The government of Petr Fiala, whose ODS promised a deficit of 1,5 % before the elections, is now asking the Chamber of Deputies for confidence with a deficit plan twice as high as that of the Milky Way. And again, is that surprising? Is it surprising from a government that, as one of the first steps, will do this to increase the number of civil servants, and will justify this by making an absurd claim that it is doing so so that the number of civil servants can decrease in the future? Sir Humphrey wouldn't even think of that. The government, which is enchanted by the abolition of tax exemptions and at the same time wants to introduce new tax exemptions - only in its programming declaration has a few, total contradictions. But paper can take anything, it seems. Can this be surprising from a government that contradicts itself in the preamble to its programming statement, refusing to increase government debt, while committing itself in the same document a few pages below to one single budgetary objective, and that is to reduce the deficit to 3% of GDP? That means a rough estimate, a good 1 trillion additional debt in four years. So how's it going with the declared refusal to raise debt? Either they pay one or they pay the other. Words must mean something, even in the Government's Programming Declaration, especially if you ask for the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. No, a government like that can't really have my trust, because that's what it says, and it does something else really. The program statement is proof that the deed has escaped, and probably never been meant to be serious. What will governance look like in a coalition that disagrees internally on virtually nothing - from the euro to opinions on employees' taxation, tradesmen, to the salaries of teachers, firefighters and policemen? And so he prefers to hide behind empty and general phrases. Is it possible to express confidence in such a government? A government that does not have confidence in itself and therefore prefers not to think much about anything and, above all, does not say much, nor does it deserve the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. The Czech company has grown significantly economically over the past ten years. On average, Čech, Moravan and Slezan have reached a standard of living and standard, which has been the privilege of so-called richer countries to the west of our borders for decades. Our country was full of positive expectations, rising salaries, pensions, the state reduced its citizens' taxes and focused on their good choice and the fight against tax evasion and fraud. [[11.20 hours]] These positive expectations were the result of abandoning the narrow, in a way cowardly and economically dysfunctional policies of right-wing governments, represented mainly by TOP 09 and ODS. Both parties seem to have a strongly rooted policy of scaring people, preventing economic growth and completely counterproductive deterioration of expectations across the economy and the resulting deterioration of the economic image of the Czech Republic as such. The same handwriting that people remember well from the period of Nečasův' cabinet is now voted by Petr Fiala's government. The Czech Republic is a country with the sixth lowest debt in the European Union. Our rating is highly superior to other countries in the region and puts us at the level of Belgium or Great Britain. We are the economy that shows the lowest unemployment among OECD countries, the lowest risk of poverty and social exclusion. We are a country that has successfully struggled with the phenomenon of tax evasion and fraud organised by organised criminal groups. We are a country that has completed modern gambling reform and which is one of the safest places to live in the world. Yet we hear from the current government of the Czech Republic about the collapse of our economy, the collapse of funding its health care, education, the collapse of pension payments, social assistance and investment in infrastructure. It is a very dangerous rhetoric that damages the perception of the Czech Republic in the eyes of foreign investors and has a direct negative impact on consumption, demand, but overall investment rates in the economy. It is a rhetoric that has one goal: to create conditions for the rapid deterioration of the standard of living of civil servants, pensioners and socially weak, which are groups with which the strongest part of the government coalition has an age-old problem. The scissors that open up in society will increase the gap between the richest on the one hand and everyone else on the other - as we are used to from our right. Nothing new under the sun. At the same time, the Czech Republic has the power to be ahead and to be among the most successful countries. But certainly not with the government that intends to tear down the building site, with the government that wants to bring our country back - back to a time when the state was looking at billions of tax evasion from carousel fraud, which stopped the inspection report. And that is why he wants to revise the control report so-called, but it would be more appropriate to disable it. Back to the time when, with the active help of business representatives, we have built the most important measures to reconcile the business environment in our modern history. I am, of course, referring to the electronic record of sales, which, by the way, has been declared the second best law of the year, which has enabled us to reduce VAT, reduce the number of controls in companies by the Financial Administration and raise tens of billions in public budgets. Back to a time when wage or salary growth was something you were slowly afraid to say so that you wouldn't lose your job. Ladies and gentlemen, by means of a progressive terminology, the government has finally put its cards on the table with its programming statement. And we see that while she's been bluffing at least with the royal flush, there's barely one pair of sevens on the table. To express trust to a government that has one real concern, and that is to say, to stick together in any way, and therefore rather than promise real work, I cannot. Now more than ever, our country needs a very specific vision, not a floscule covering an unprecedented view of the intersection of coalition parties. The government's programming statement brings neither a chance for stability nor a prospect of growth. No, the Czech Republic can't afford to walk on the spot. We must move forward and actively and decisively address problems and challenges. In my opinion, none of this is offered by this government to our country and its citizens, which is why I cannot give it confidence in today's vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u13	Thank you. That was Alena Schillerová, Chairman of the ANO Group of Deputies. And now Prime Minister Tomio Okamura has signed up with priority rights and I hereby give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement will not support the government of the SPOLU coalition, i.e. the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 and Pirates and STAN in the vote. This government has not yet offered any concrete solutions to address the draconian increase in energy, rising food prices, or how to support the construction of affordable housing. Moreover, the state budget for this year is not approved and we are in the budgetary provisional. Although the new five-calice government has been saying for a year how ready it is to rule, deed has escaped, promises of error. Our trust cannot be held by the Fialův government for another reason. It is an ideology that this government promotes and embodied in its programming statement. This is cutting off Czech sovereignty and even more subjugation to Brussels on policy and economic issues and even more subjection to Washington in the military field. It must be said that few countries have such a loyal relationship with Brussels and NATO. The government's commitment to strengthen this loyalty even more only leads to the question of how far we can climb, since we are already in that back part of Brussels and now the new government is probably shoving itself down the throat. You, my fellow Members, don't realize that it's not just ideology, it's who likes who or doesn't. It's business, and the West does it regardless of sanctions, or even whether there's totalitarianism. In fact, we will not find a dictator or mass murderer with whom the US and the West would not trade, from Hitler to Pinochet to Saddám or today to the Arab sheiks, or even Islamist terrorists for whom the law or freedom is pure madness. The new government of Petr Fiala mostly holds the worst of what Brusel and its ideologists in Europe are promoting. I apologize to individuals who at least disagree with certain threats from Brussels. At this point, it is primarily an energy dictatorship in favour of the pre-selected economic lobby, it is the pressure on the federalisation of the European Union associated with the definitive loss of at least the pretend sovereignty of national countries today. It is a crazy plan for the destruction of European nations and European culture associated with decades of tolerance and support for migration of culturally hostile migrants, both legal and illegal. This government is the essence of treason in international policy. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not a rhetorical scream. Yes, treason is committed here by many in terms of the true nature of the concept of treason. Allow me to quote a valid criminal code, § 315, where the offence of abuse of representation of the state and an international organization is described, which is committed by the person who abuses his jurisdiction - and I now quote the criminal code - 'intending to destroy the independence of the Czech Republic, although he is authorized to represent the Czech Republic or an international organisation whose Czech Republic is a member' - end of the quote of Section 315 of the applicable Criminal Code. And I will add that the preparation of this crime is also criminal under applicable laws. Thus, any abandonment of the powers of any foreign power, i.e. Brussels, any promotion in order for the Czech Republic to give up sovereignty in favour of the federal European Union, is a criminal offence. And I'll come back to the federal. [[11.30 hours]] And in connection with this government's activities in favour of foreign governments, we are fluent in getting the government's staff. Prime Minister Petr Fiala - as the leader of the Pan-European Union alongside the foreman of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft and the enemy of the national interests of the Czech Republic Bernd Posselt and Otto von Habsburg - massively promoted the so-called Pan-European, Europe as a federation in which there is no place for national states anymore. In the 1920s, Austrian nobleman Richard Coudenhove-Kalergi was the ideal and effective father of the so-called Pan-European movement. The statue of this gentleman adorns the façade of the European Parliament, because Kalergi is the spiritual father of Brussels bureaucracy. It is worth mentioning two of his quotes, which will illuminate his attitude, but also his heirs to democracy and European nations. To democracy he said, I quote: "The current epoch of democracy is only an intermediate period between two great aristocratic epochs - the feudal aristocracy of the sword and the social aristocracy of the spirit. Feudal aristocracy is falling, intellectual aristocracy is coming. In the meantime, it is called democracy, but it actually dominates the pseudo-aristocracy of money." The end of his quote and what Prime Minister Petr Fiala supports. Kalergi specifically named the goals and desires of all the Brussels elites. We also understand why, for the Brussels elite, one of the gangs, they collectively reject democracy, a system in which citizens directly control the government through popular vote, or referendums. Referendum - That's the word you won't find in the Fialův Government's programming statement. You'll find a target to declare a national bird. There you will find a goal to promote greater and more effective censorship on the Internet. But the goal of promoting democracy and justice in the Czech Republic is clearly not something that anyone in the government cares about. Here I would like to remind you that the SPD is the only party here that has advocated democracy for the long term. We want the referendum bill. We want a direct choice and rebuttal of politicians. Also, there is only one Member from all over Parliament who is a signatory of Charter 77 in the SPD, and there is only one Member from all over Parliament who is a dissident and political prisoner who was locked up in prison until 1989 for two and a half years, and this is our Member Jaroslav Bašta, a brave man who actually fought for freedom and democracy, not like the pseudo-democrats who did at that time... Maybe they weren't even in the world or we were kids. But we have a true freedom fighter among our fellow Members who was in prison for two and a half years for totalitarianism. And Jaroslav Bašta, when I talk to him, it's not enough to stare - also tonight - it's not enough to stare where these pseudo-democrats have gone. It's not enough to stare at what he fought for heroically and bravely, what he was in prison for, and where the pseudo-democracy is now taking place in your so-called liberal democrats submission. Liberty is being limited. Censorship. Bullying. And that's where you're going today. And it's a real shame that a man like House President Pekarová Adamová here... You pushed the SPD out of the governing bodies of the House, while we have one member of our ranks, among other things, who was heroically in prison, is a dissident and was a signatory to Charter 77. It's disgusting. The crap you're doing here, you who weren't even in jail, you didn't sign the Charter. What did you do until then? [[Responses in the government desk.]] Explain it here. Confess here. Explain that to Jaroslav Bašta. It's a disgrace. Shame about the way you guys are acting around here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber. If you need to act, go to the lobby. Thank you and I apologize to the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u16	Now here to ask me what you were doing until 1989, one of the ministers said in response to Jaroslav Bašta being in prison and signing Charter 77 that he was pulling a duck. Now I don't know, I think Mr. Lipavský said it - the Foreign Minister. Well, that's a very inadequate reaction, and it's a disgrace. Whether you said it or Mr. Válek said it, it was here, from this place, it's a disgrace if such a person is even a minister, instead of being humble to such people. [[He's pointing his left hand at the government bench.]] As far as the government statement is concerned, of course, while we are with the government, we could discuss the history of some of the parties to the coalition, and it would not be nice to talk, but I will not burden you, ladies and gentlemen, nor TV viewers and citizens with facts that are publicly known and traceable. We will have at least part of tomorrow to discuss suspicious money lines from Cyprus and elsewhere for the STAN movement. [[Option]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to declare trust, this man must be trustworthy. The theme of today is covid. Before the elections, all the representatives of the current government coalition in the debates were suffocating that they were against the introduction of an emergency state. The moment they took over the government, they kept the emergency going. New government politicians also promised people before the elections that they would be against mandatory covid vaccinations. After the election, however, the citizens were deceived and did not keep their promise. In this context, I will mention the words of Mr Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09, today there is a new Minister of Health, here the Minister sits behind me, who said during the debate on covido vaccination last year in the House, and I quote: "It is very right in this decree that the vaccination is optional. If it's mandatory, I'll be the first to strap myself up here naked in front of this House, and I won't let the minister in." Minister Válek, you didn't take your shirt off - but I don't want to see it, so all right - let alone do anything as a minister against mandatory vaccination. That you and your government aren't ashamed to fool people like that. The minister says he can't hear me, but he's three feet behind me. You refuse to revoke the compulsory covid vaccination order. Despite your pre-election vows, you and the government have done nothing to restore the unconstitutional renewed freedoms of the citizens of this country and against increasing discrimination. Here I would like to thank thousands of citizens who responded last week to the SPD call. We have published on our website www.spd.cz a model for citizens, a model letter. It's a constitutional complaint, and it's a request to the Ombudsman. Mr. Ombudsman, I spoke to him last week on Monday, said that if he received a lot of complaints, he would consider filing a constitutional suit to cancel the section of the mandatory covid vaccination decree. And I'm glad that Mr. Ombudsman said in the media on Wednesday that only on Wednesday he received thousands of letters from citizens, and now that I've read his actual interview, he's only received five thousand - five thousand on the basis of the SPD's call last week! - letters from citizens who ask the Ombudsman to file a constitutional complaint for the abolition of the mandatory covid vaccination passage. So I wanted to thank both Mr. Ombudsman and, above all, the citizens who took advantage of the challenge because the SPD is the only party in the House that is actively fighting against mandatory covid vaccination. As we know, we have nothing against vaccination. Who wants to get vaccinated... We're talking about vaccinations, we're not talking about tetanus, TB and others, it's okay, they've been vaccines tested for decades. But what I wanted to say is that we were active here and Mr. Ombudsman said that he had already filed the constitutional complaint. So this is a specific result of the SPD's work. We have been collecting signatures here in the House, but there must be 25 Members to file a constitutional complaint, to cancel the passage of the mandatory covid vaccination decree, there are only 20 Members in the SPD, and none of the other parties has provided us with the five Members, so everyone here supports the covid vaccination. Yes, I'm not surprised about the YES movement because they created the decree themselves, I don't blame them. But those who have promised here, for example, Minister Válek, who promised before the election that he would be against mandatory covid vaccination, is now laviating and does not want to cancel the passage of the decree. So, of course, that's a voter scam, and the deed has escaped. I hope that the Constitutional Court will decide, because the absurd fact that you want to inoculate - so it is also the guilt of the ANO movement, but also of the current government - for example, voluntary firefighters, so I think it is a complete peak. And of course it applies to other professional groups, there are policemen and others. [[11.40 hours]] The new Interior Minister, Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, invited him to a strange meeting of police President Jan Švejdar, who announced his departure from office after an interview between the two. Vít Rakušan sent a police president who refused to become a puppet in his hands. As is the case today, the pressure on police officers who dared to face the covido vaccine propaganda is increasing. Yes, that's the government's goal. Compulsory vaccination of police officers and other healthy people, who are absolutely safe from respiratory diseases in the vast majority, is just a test of obedience. And those who refuse to submit must leave, so that only those who carry out the tasks will remain, regardless of law and law. And here I would like to call on the first Vice Prime Minister and Home Secretary Vít Rakušan to explain what he was talking about at that one-on-one meeting in the Chamber of Deputies before being appointed minister. Anyone else does this, so there are demonstrations, there's a lot of Václavák, the media write about it every day because this kind of political influence by the police, because nothing else... the suspicion of political influence by the police is quite obvious here, and Vít Rakušan refuses to say - not only does he refuse to say, but we will talk about it tomorrow, about the fact that there are not clear end owners of his sponsors from tax havens in Cyprus and from the companies that have mothers in tax havens in Cyprus, we will discuss it tomorrow, also refusing to explain it, but most importantly he refuses to explain why he invited a private police president to the carpet just before his appointment as minister and what they were discussing there, what he was asking, and on that basis, police President Jan Švejdar said he would leave. Yes, there are various assumptions that he wanted, for example, to influence the investigation of Andrej Babiš - that is conjecture, I heard, I don't know, yeah - or that they wanted to influence various criminal cases and so on, and Mr. Jan Švejdar didn't want to go to the new government. I don't know, that's why we're asking. I'm just saying what I've heard from people, and it would be good to explain clearly - but you'll explain it, but you've invited him in private as an MP, so you're arguing against the claim. It's a problem here, of course, and I think it's up to the level of making an investigation committee here, because this is not normal, and because you're counting on a lot of mainstream media - not all of it - to get your hands on, you think it's all gonna get away with it. I mean, it's crazy how you guys act. Maybe you were dealing with something normal in there, I don't know, but just because we don't know, we're asking what it means, because if any of us did it, you'd almost hang it, hang it out the House window here, and the media would do the same thing. So this government, let's move on, this government, before the vote on trust, has done its utmost to prove that it is a threat to our society. Prime Minister Fiala said over and over again that Green Deal EU is what the last Prime Minister Babiš agreed to and did not report to the Green Deal. Prime Minister Fiala didn't seem to report to him so he wouldn't lose his preference. Yes, it was agreed by Andrej Babiš and is therefore responsible for increasing energy in the Czech Republic. But when we look at the New Purple Government's Program Statement, it says that Green Deal is not a threat to this government, but an opportunity. Prime Minister Petr Fiala (a) is therefore directly supporting Green Deal, and thus increasing energy to our citizens and companies. This is unacceptable to the SPD, it is servility to Brussels. And here I would point out that energy policy is still within the competence of national governments, so you cannot make any excuses for Brussels. If you'd like to resign, you can, so you're fully responsible for increasing energy in the Czech Republic, which is why we've been saying since the first second you've declared that you have a majority in the House, we're asking you to deal with the auction and resolution. I will add that today's Prime Minister Petr Fiala applied to Green Deal on his Facebook page last May in the words that - I quote: "Green Deal is a reality, there is no point in speculating, let's use it." Well, now we see your use in the direction of increasing energy. It's a concussion. I just can't agree with those words, Petr Fiala. I understand pragmatism, i.e. that if there is evil and can be used for the benefit of Czech companies or citizens, let us use it. But we have a moral and ethical dimension. Evil is to be fought in the first place. Evil is to be opposed, not reconciled, not said to parasite on it. Yes, there were people who, after the occupation of Czechoslovakia, had thought of the Nazis in purple and said: The Third Reich is reality, there is no point speculating as it would be otherwise, now let's take advantage of the opportunity it gives us. But that, in my opinion, is not the right way to go. Brusel and its efforts to eliminate both our sovereignty and our economy, energy, food security, but also culture are not and cannot be a good opportunity. But I understand that for those who fulfill the definition of treason, this is an opportunity to benefit from it. But for us, for the citizens of the Czech Republic, the loyal legacy of President Masaryk, Czech legionaries, resistance fighters, the legacy of thousands of victims of the struggle for our independence, this is an opportunity to fight and resist evil. We can never and we will not collaborate with collaborators. We will never betray the interests of our country, our nations and our citizens. And now let's take a closer look at the government statement. First, the health chapter. You're writing a sentence here - quote, it's one sentence: "We're going to start a discussion on the need and suitability of price competition for health insurance companies." And on Friday, I got a call from the editor of the Young Front today, who wanted to give me an opinion on what I think about it, because he contacted Minister Válek and got an explanation from the Minister that this sentence means that the government wants to introduce new standards of health care in this sense and threatens that poorer people will have a worse standard than richer people. Well, that's crazy! The SPD absolutely refuses. So does that mean people should pay extra for better care? Yes, I don't have a problem with that in the SPD, when someone wants to pay extra for a superior room, for softer toilet paper, for example, take it as such a understandable example, but we insist in the SPD that for all citizens who are part of the public health insurance system, those citizens must be entitled to the best possible care available in the given place and time. But from what I hear, you want to select poorer citizens and richer in access to healthcare. And here I would really like Minister Válek - and I will have more questions here - to explain this to the microphone to say that he will not lower the standard of health care and that, on the contrary, the basic standard of health care - well basic so that people have the best possible health care in the given place and time - that he will keep it, because what I heard on Friday is appalling. That's that crazy government statement. That's why I'm repeating it here, I'm repeating it three more times here. And, Minister, I'm calling you to dement it on the microphone, or you're supposed to be from your Ministry of Health, or you said you personally said so there on Friday at the question of the Young Front today, so tell me - this has to be rejected. We want to hear it here, and I think citizens want to hear it, too, because what... I know that you are the TOP 09 and that the TOP 09 is a party for rich people, we know that you are not ashamed of it and you have a circus of 5 percent of the voters, but 95 percent of the voters... and notabene and your government, your government, did not vote for most citizens of the Czech Republic. If you count the votes cast, you were voted by a minority of the people who took part in the elections. You can't do this to adjust, implement different health care standards based on whether people are poorer or richer. So this is what we need to clear up here. So this is really the first point that the SPD is strongly opposed to, and we will always fight to ensure that all citizens of the Czech Republic, when they are part of the public health insurance system, have the best possible care in the given place and time. I would rather expect another thing from you, that you may be there seeking it as a government to make health care more accessible, such as dental care. I mean, dentists aren't available to many people. We are talking, of course, at least about the financial level. Look into people's mouths. I go on various campaigns all the time, and now, of course, it's limited because of the measures, but often people who are, for example, the lower middle class don't even have the teeth. They lack teeth because they don't have the money. Even if your previous governments, including the ODS governments, have suggested to people here that the teeth are not part of the human body. That's not true! [[11.50 hours]] Do you know how an advanced country is known? My late daddy told me. Well, daddy was from Japan, as you know, so he said - he traveled all his life on business around the world - that you can tell an advanced country and a good standard of living by looking into people's mouths, teeth when you talk to them. That's how you can tell a really mature country that they have what it takes to have nice teeth. It's definitely not like that with us. So it's completely missing these things in your government statement. There are even things that are totally unacceptable to us. Let's go to the next point-- heat prices. You're saying, "We're going to prepare the transfer of heat to low-emission sources so that prices don't go up." So this translated means that the government will be working on changes that will bring about an increase in heat prices, just trying to make price growth smooth, not jumping. So instead of clearly declaring your target in four years' time, the goal of fighting against the price increase, you're basically admitting that it's not jumping, but you're gradually coming to terms with it, and you're going to work on these changes. Well, that's unacceptable for us, too. This is all the same with the policy, as I said, from the European Union. Next thing you know, tax evasion. You declare, several times even, that you will fight tax evasion, with the practice of Czech companies taxing in tax havens. But after all, your coalition partner, Prime Minister, and your first vice prime minister is collecting money as a sponsor from tax havens in Cyprus or from companies whose owners are registered in tax havens in Cyprus and have opaque owners. I've already challenged you, I believe, last or last week, to call on you, Prime Minister, here the Vice Prime Minister and Chairman of STAN Vít Rakušan, to explain the financial flows, and you remain silent. You don't dare ask him not to let the coalition fall apart. But that's terrible. I mean, you guys have been saying for the past few years what you're gonna be like, what's going to be a change? After all, your colleague, who sits on the right, is sponsored from tax havens in Cyprus. In fact, your candidate for the Minister of Industry Věslav Michalik has now acknowledged this. Then why are you writing this in the program statement? That's a flagrant lie, so it's in direct conflict with the interests of STAN's sponsors. In another part, you say that you cut off companies from tax havens, enforce rules of transparent proof of real owners. Then why don't you ask for it on Vít Rakušan? So that's absolutely untrustworthy, your government statement. That's normally completely untrustworthy. I've never seen this place before. I've been through some unfulfilled promises, but the situation is happening here, and you can't stand it, so that's an incredible situation. Let's move on. You also say that you will select trusted competent personalities to lead. So, maybe it's the Foreign Minister, Mr. Lipavský? Are these political representatives for the pirát? You have expanded the numbers of the newsrooms mainly to failed members of the Pirate Party. Even failed Members - just to tell the audience here - even the voters of the pirát did not want these Members, who were here for four years, no longer wanted them in the House, so they did not give them their mandate or their voters. Of course, we wouldn't vote for them as SPD, but their voters. Although they are unsuccessful and have lost confidence in their own voters - a completely flagrant example is Mr Lipavskýý here, the Foreign Minister who failed in the elections, so even his voters didn't want him anymore, and they preferred to choose candidates for STAN as part of the candidate - so you're actually writing here that you want a trusted personality to lead the positions, but clearly these people here don't even have confidence in your constituents. I'm not talking about the other x-captains. The pirates who flunked the election, so you're putting them here as a newsstand for the so-called political deputy. After all, the political deputy is the newsroom itself. Let's move on. Chapter Environment. I really can't stare here. You completely missed the issue of the Polish mine Turów, which plagues our citizens on the border with Poland - there is a loss of water, there are problems - so you do not want to solve it. Instead, you put a sentence in the programme statement that you will choose the Czech national bird in cooperation with the Czech Ornithological Society. So these are your priorities? You're gonna pick a national bird? I wanted to ask what it meant, how or what it would be if you were against the referendum, but especially the priority. This means solving the problems of citizens in the chapter Environment - turów no, but the national bird does. It's unbelievable. [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] It is no wonder that the Governor of Půta for the Liberec Region, who is otherwise under the starosta, has also distanced himself from this government. He said it wasn't his government. Of course, what's he supposed to say when he's the captain of the Liberec County and he sees this blunder? Let's go next, so that's an incredible sentence. It is a chapter on Digitalisation here, and you are writing - and I quote: 'We will provide synergies with the European Union in addressing social networks'. So you mean you want even more censorship and spying on people on the Internet? I'd like to ask you to explain that sentence. I also ask why the Czech Government wants to address profiles of Czech citizens with Brussels. What's that supposed to mean? So you want to deal with the profiles of Czech citizens on social networks with foreigners, Brusel? Well, you've got to be kidding me... it's not funny, it's crazy. That's why I'm talking about treason in a broad sense. So this is what I'd like to ask the relevant minister -- which is probably Mr. Bartoš, digitalization, because he's always talking about digitization, and the pirát haven't proposed anything in the last parliamentary term, and they haven't pushed anything. So I'm just saying here that he's running away, but he's probably in charge of it, which is totally awful, because you want to deal with it, of course -- she's longer here -- "when dealing with algorithmically controlled platforms and social networks." So these are the social networks I'm talking about, the restrictions. Let's move on. You're saying the government wants to go the way of reform of the state's spending and effective money management. Well, that's, of course, at first glance, a sentence that's okay, we have nothing against it. But you've already started filling it, and that's the force, because you've started filling that sentence so that the government -- the coalitions of the COO, Pirates and STAN -- instead of making billions of cuts in surplus spending in the state budget, for example, by cutting billions on solar barons, there goes about 40 billion a year, to political nonprofits, instead of ending the abuse of benefits that are inadaptable and so on, so you stole the promised money from 1. 1. firefighters, policemen, soldiers, workers in social services, teachers and other necessary professions, for example, workers of the labour offices, which you have also done much more work now in the framework of the solution of the housing supplement, immediate assistance and so on. But I'll get to that. In addition, you did not consult this decision with tripartite at all, while in a government statement you say that you will consult tripartite. Well, that's unbelievable. These organizations are already rebelling against you because you've been lying since the first second. So, given the rising inflation, it's a mockery of the firefighters and all the necessary professions we need, because what you're doing also means a decline in their wages due to inflation, it's a decline. You have caused a decline in the salaries of firefighters and other needed professions of the type of soldiers, police and so on, and the SPD is behind these professions, we support them for the long term. Of course, many of them know, and I thank them for their support. [[12.00 hours]] And contrary to that, or vice versa, so you took away the firefighters and other necessary professions that I have named, but they are also people who work at financial offices, sanitation stations and so on, so you took them all away and at the same time you showed how you imagined that sentence in a government statement, "reform of state spending and effective money management." You've increased the number of ministers from 15 to 18, so they can't fit in here, I've never seen ministers sitting in two rows because you can't fit in one line. You guys have given away so much of the newsstands, it's a five-calice, and it's not enough newsstands. The Minister of Legislation here, Mr Šalomoun, must sit in the second row because it will no longer fit between you, so you have pushed it away inadequately, your colleague. And at the same time, because of these three additional ministers, these are those ministers without portfolio, those who are at the Office of the Government, yeah, so that you can all be at the corsets, you are hiring 74 new workers for these three newly created ministerial posts to have service, for CZK 43 million. So you took away the firefighters, you took on tens of millions, not to mention that the cargo on those three ministers is 100 million because they have a car with a beacon, secretariats and so on and so forth, they have a driver and so on. So, of course, we, as the SPD, advocate raising all salaries, including the private sector, for example by increasing the deductible item on children, because, of course, from the point of view of pension reform, which you are still promising here, both the previous and the current government, you have never submitted a proper reform, you will always call it a reform, and it is not a reform. This is what it is - you're always trying to turn less informed people around here, but we're not going to let it bend - by the way, raising deductible items to children would contribute to at least some motivation for working citizens to increase birth rate so that we can keep financing the pension system in the medium term. You'd have two birds with one stone. So we're not saying raise salaries just like that, but at the same time I'm just pointing out, I suggested, even where to save where the unnecessary expenses are. Well, you don't want to take those solar barons, because we saw it here last June when the vote came in last year. We humiliated some payments to the solar barons, and it went through the votes of the SPD and the ANO movement. On the contrary, Mr. Jurečka and others here lobbied for solar barons. And we're no longer surprised that the STAN movement and all that and they'll be friends with the solar barons, because Mr. Věslav Michalik admitted that he's in the solar business, the sponsor of the STAN, so we know where we are and why. But it's against people's interests. And it's a European Union project mainly, which is why you don't want to cancel it, which is why you don't want to touch it, but people pay desperately here. You guys stole money. So I've said some specific instructions here where to take it. There's another one... here... freezing the salaries of politicians. Well, let's say again that because of you, because of your government, 6 percent of politicians' salaries have increased since 1 January. Almost all the politicians sitting here now have a 6 percent increase in salaries due to your government, because at the end of last year, Petr Fiala's government in the House did not support the discussion of the SPD's proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. It was here in the system, we could discuss it, we filed it in the so-called '90s to discuss it quickly - you just weren't interested in doing the meeting here. Therefore, from 1. 1. now the increased salaries of politicians are 6 percent and late, with a cross after a funeral, you have come here to freeze for a few months, by the end of this year, eleven months. Yes, the SPD supported it, of course, but you also rejected our proposal yesterday to freeze politicians' salaries for four years, for the entire term. That's your real face. You have added yourself, you have added incredibly much space and money and everything possible and service and ministers, and as I said yesterday, you have also created an extra seat for the pirát for the Vice-President of the House and CZK 20 million for the term of office, even though the pirát have only four MPs, but you have no money left for the people. Here, while I'm talking about the pirát, I would mention the fraud against the pirát' voters that their chairman, Ivan Bartoš, has shown when they are clearly written that they are forbidden to accumulate functions, that they cannot have a conspiracy of a Member and a Minister, but suddenly, when you are in the government, it does not apply to Mr Bartoš. Why? Because he knows they're the fifth wheel of a car in the government, and there's no need for four MPs when they're 108, so he knows he'd go first when there's a crisis in the government, because the rest of them logically blame the pirát, and he'd be out of a job, because if he didn't have a parliamentary mandate, of course he'd have to go looking for a normal job like any other person. That's why he accumulates to be sure. If he doesn't succeed the minister, he'll at least remain a MP. That's the real reason. It's totally against what the pirát promised. Normal newsman, that's all, okay? I'm also not surprised that there was a tension in the Pirate Party about that and that you've definitely lost the credit of the party that might have brought some new wind. As far as the freezing of politicians' salaries is concerned, it is generally unacceptable for us that politicians make their own decisions about their salaries. In our view, we need to find a different model than when the salaries of politicians depend on a mere coefficient of times the average wage in the non-business sector. Let's move on. Foreign policy. The SPD rejects the hostile, stupid and arrogant statements made by House President Markéta Pekarová Adamová of the TOP 09 that Maďar are to expel Prime Minister Orbán in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. The elections are in Hungary this year. Thus, the steps taken by the new Fialův Government to break up cooperation in the Central European region within the framework of the V4 and the effort to move our Republic completely into the hands of Brussels and Berlin. Mrs Pekarová Adamová's statement follows the remarks made by the new Minister for European Affairs, Mikuláš Bek, for the STAN movement, who said that the Republic of Hungary would be on the side of Brussels against Poland and Hungary. Minister Bek resents that the Polish court has ruled that Polish laws are superior to EU legislation. According to Bek, the decision of the Polish court is said to destabilize the Central European region and the Czech Republic should conclude closer alliances with Germany. It is clear that this government will continue with the utter insignificance of Czech foreign policy, and the new government is heading towards the no longer need of the Czech Foreign Minister, but the Czech ambassador in Germany will suffice as a protectorate. In the SPD's view, relationships with neighbors like V4 are essential. The standard foreign policy of a sovereign country is supposed to have three pillars: first, the closest countries and allies, second, and third, where we have some economic interest. This principle is falling apart now, and that's wrong. Perhaps the new Minister Lipavský does not even know that these are the basic principles of foreign policy, because he has had no experience with this so far. But what I have to say here is that yesterday, we wanted to give Mrs. Pekarová's president Adamová a chance to explain her remarks, and I have to say, I'm sorry about the word, but your government coalition rejected it cowardly. You rejected our proposal for a point where we wanted to give room for President Markéta Pekarová Adamová, President of the House of the TOP 09 to correct the explanation - and she doesn't even want to correct it - but to discuss it here. And you rejected it, you're afraid, you're afraid of the debate, there's no other reason. You're afraid to talk about it. That means: on Twitter a hero, where there is no resistance, where there is no debate, where no one can argue, but here, in the House, where we are prepared to argue, so suddenly you don't want to talk about it anymore, you're not the hero anymore. And they were ready for the debate. Jaroslav Bašta was ambassador to Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, other countries, Jiří Kobza led the Czech Embassy in Iran as a chargé d 'affaires. But you couldn't argue with them because you don't know anything about foreign policy - you're just saying something against our neighbors, okay? But it's a shame you don't want it, you don't have the courage to discuss it here. Likewise, I assume that in another opposition party, the YES movement, there are certainly some people who would like to comment on this, and you did not allow us to do so. So this policy where you want to disrupt V4 cooperation, we need to strengthen the cooperation so that we can defend our interests in energy policy, if I'm specific, the reason for that, for example. So this policy of yours is a direct attack on the wallets of Czech citizens. [[12.10 hours]] And they were ready for the debate. Jaroslav Bašta was ambassador to Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, other countries. Jiří Kobza led the Czech Embassy in Iran as a chargé d 'affaires. But you couldn't argue with them because you don't know anything about foreign policy, you just say something against our neighbors. Yeah? But it's a shame you don't want it, you don't have the courage to discuss it here. I also assume that, in another opposition party of the ANO movement, there are certainly some people who would like to comment on this. And you didn't let us. So this policy where you want to disrupt the V4 cooperation. In doing so, we need to strengthen the cooperation so that we can defend our interests in this energy policy, if I am specific, for example. So this policy of yours is a direct attack on the wallets of Czech citizens. Let's move on. Mr. Farský. That's new now. He was the one who played the show on Mr. Clean. And he did, it's the STAN movement. He is one of the top representatives of the STAN movement, Chairman of the STAN Group of Parliament. He showed contempt for the voters given by the word really flattering. Vice Prime Minister Fiala said it today, the Prime Minister said it today, now he's gone somewhere...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u17	I'm sitting behind you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u18	Yeah, I'm glad. So, Prime Minister, you said you wanted to serve people. You just said that on the air. [[He's turning to the Prime Minister again.]] So your government wants to serve people. However, Mr Farský has announced that he is leaving privately for a six-month internship in the United States and does not want to give up his mandate because of this. So how can he serve people when he's in America for six months? And now he laughed absolutely incredibly at the voters yesterday when he rudely said he was going to be doing the American Oregon MP's job. And he says that he's still making a fool out of everyone here that he'll be handing over his salary to selected political nonprofit organizations he's working with. But there's also the cost of parliamentary assistants. There's an office cost. After all, the mandate of a Member costs a lot of money. What's he talking about? We all know that. And now I don't understand why Prime Minister Fiala, Prime Minister, why don't you invite Mr Farský to take up his mandate. [[He's turning to the Prime Minister again.]] You said a moment ago that you wanted to serve the citizens. Why don't you ask him to take up his mandate? And I'll tell you, there's a perfectly logical question here. I mean, he said that the information or the experience he's gonna take in that American Oregon, he said he wanted to take advantage of the next job. But he doesn't need to be a MP for that. He will come and then he will need to do some work for your government, but he does not need a Member's mandate to do so. So I would really like to challenge you, Prime Minister, and I would like to receive the answer, if you will, if you have just said that you want to serve the people, so how can you serve the people of a Member who hasn't been here for six months? Even more than six months. Eight months, he said. Plus, it's in direct conflict. Well, I'm not even asking the first Vice Prime Minister, President of STAN Rakušan, Vít of STAN, because he's his friend. So he told him he wouldn't challenge him. So it's already clear out there, it's just a mockery to the taxpayers of this. And yet in the coalition agreement between the Pirates and STAN, in point 5. 2 5 writes that the elected coalition candidate, and now I quote from the coalition agreement of the Pirates and STAN before the elections that promised citizens that they would take the work of a Member as a priority and arrange for their other activities. In parentheses, you stated: "Work in self-government, study, business, teaching and so on, so that the performance of the function can be spent enough time. " This is unbelievable. You spit in the face of your constituents and all the citizens, because the work of a Member is paid out of citizens' taxes, and his and his assistants and others and other benefits. And he said he consulted his internship in America with both the head of the party Vít Rakušan and Prime Minister Petr Fiala and they both supported him by not doing anything here in the House for eight months. That's crazy, that's crazy. And it's just that you're in that government with no confidence, so far you've been a couple of days and stuff like that. So we see that Jan Farský, a member of the STAN, has clearly broken the coalition treaty of the Pirates and STAN and despises voters. And he puts his career above the interests and promises of the voters of the STAN movement and this government. And, of course, the only honest solution is to resign to the post of MP. And it is shocking that such contempt for voters will be supported by a word given by the chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement and Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Okay, now let's stop at the job. Why is he in that American Oregon? That, in fact, is quite typical of this government. Because he's going there to study it, he's going there to learn the subject of the federalization of Europe. The federalization of Europe is going to study in the American Oregon. But the federalization of Europe, what does that mean? Like me, I'd tell the Czech TV audience who supported Prime Minister Fiala and the STAN movement. The federalization of Europe means the disappearance of sovereignty and independence of the Czech Republic. EU federalization. [[He's turning to the Prime Minister.]] Prime Minister, it's clear, isn't it? You're a political scientist. The federalization of Europe. What about the federal state? It's Austria. That means, well, like the federal states, there's already one government, one foreign policy. And you want the Czech Republic to be one of those federal states. It means that this is the demise of the Czech Republic. That's federalization. This is, for example, the Austrian model, Austria. To set a specific example. What, then, is the idea of what he will study and what he will promote for further work, as he said, for the government coalition, Mr Farský. Why? Why is it going to America? Well, of course, he can't lay down the mandate of a Member. If he didn't have it, he wouldn't be worth it. That's the political one, that's why he's invited there, that's why he's got the scholarship. Because as an MP, it's his job to promote this place, this sort of thing. But it's directly anti-state, it's totally anti-state, don't be mad at me. This is the demise of the Czech Republic, the federalization of Europe. Are they gonna run us from Berlin and Brussels? And we no longer have any, basically Czech government, Czech Parliament, actually does not, it is becoming basically a pure formality. It's like Germany, too, isn't it, it's a sorority country and all that. But, of course, the powers of individual countries can be adjusted differently. But it's the model for the show for the audience and the laymen who are going to study Mr. Farský. This means the end of the Czech Republic, the end of our independence. And this has the support of Prime Minister Fiala and Chairman STAN. Which is no wonder, because they are pro-brussels politicians and are against the independence and sovereignty of the Czech Republic, including all their Members who are here, 108 Members. So, let's move on. You write that in foreign policy, the government wants to go the way of greater orientation to NATO and the EU. Well, I would expect you to write that you want more orientation on the interests of the Czech Republic. That's not there. Yeah, you can define those afterwards. But here it is completely obvious that the local attitude that the government of the Czech Republic should have a priority written that it wants to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and not simply smoke foreign interests. But that's why I've made a big point here, why I'm talking about it. Here I've explained why I see it on many examples. Let's move on. The referendum law completely fell out of the government's programming declaration, although the Czech Constitution assumes that we will have a referendum law. He just fell out, you put him away, you crossed it off. So you don't want democracy. According to my information, the Czech Republic is the last of two countries in the EU that do not have a referendum law. It's still Cyprus. That's where the STAN movement knows it well, because it has the sponsors from the opaque tax havens. Yeah? So I understand that there's this Cyprus line, they don't have a referendum, they don't have a referendum here either, so maybe you like it. But I warn you that the SPD is deliberately falsely labeled in the media, that the SPD is not a democratic party. Because we are promoting a direct democracy. So if we want citizens to be able to decide on fundamental matters, that's undemocratic? That, on the contrary, is the pinnacle of democracy. [[12.20 hours]] We can talk about the parameters, okay? If this is to be the case for a referendum of 100,000 signatures, as we propose in our draft law, which we have already submitted to the House again for the SPD, as proposed by the SPD, or there have been proposals of 300,000 signatures in the last parliamentary term, 800,000 signatures, these are such that there is no referendum in any case, but we can simply talk about parameters. It's not about that. But that you and priori don't want a referendum law at all, even though we are already one of the last countries in the European Union that doesn't have democracy, that is the problem. And those arguments you make that people aren't... You insult Czech citizens. Your arguments that people can't decide that they're not so informed, that is, you make Czech citizens one of the two dumbest nations in Europe? Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? They also have a referendum law in Slovakia. Okay, there are parameters that it's hard to realize, but they have it there. That means your government says we're dumber than the Slovák. That's really unbelievable. It's as incredible as this pro-brussels attitude of yours towards abroad. And here I would like to mention once again our Member Jaroslav Bašta, because when he was elected our Member for the SPD, and I will repeat that he is the only signatory to Charter 77, the only political prisoner who was imprisoned in prison for his views in the 1970s for two and a half years, here he became our Member for the SPD Jaroslav Bašta. And that's because we're promoting democracy, which is why I'm glad he's here with us, like the SPD. I remember when he first came to the MP's club, Jaroslav Bašta was shaking his head. Where did the Czech Republic go under these governments in democracy? People are afraid to say their opinions, censorship, opinion bullying. When democracy is promoted, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, President of the House, likes to say they're not Democrats. He's gonna insult the SPD MP here, say the SPD isn't supposed to be in charge of the House. At the same time, Jaroslav Bašta is not even knee-deep, who fought bravely for freedom and democracy. You weren't even in prison, you didn't sign the Charter. This is such a shame, this performance by President Pekarová Adamová. And of course Prime Minister Petr Fiala isn't talking about it. I thought Petr Fiala and I sat next to each other for four years, sat next to each other, so we talked about things. But I expected, Prime Minister, that, at least in basic matters, some ethical and democracy, you would assassinate your House President, that it was too much, this. But I don't expect you to support the SPD, no, we're in a political competition here. That's for sure. But I was expecting you to have some ethical boundaries that you presented. But what's too much is too much. Yeah? So, let's move on. You've talked about it here, you've been talking about it, and we've heard it here, too, that you want to increase your arms spending to 2% of GDP, that it's a commitment to NATO. So let's pause for that a little bit, because I don't think the public has the relevant information about what's going on with the 52 billion contract right now, which, by the way, is the second largest job ever dealt with by the government. The first one is the completion of a nuclear block. So what's it about? Because I've heard some information that the SPD is moving forward, that we're against the military if we don't want to, when we have reservations about the contract for those new combat belt vehicles for the Czech army. But that's not true. The SPD movement supports the army, we support the soldiers, we promote the modernization of the military, but I'll tell you what the problem is with this contract. You know it's money thrown out the window. Only because you promised in Washington and promised NATO. The problem is that we need belt combat vehicles for the Czech Republic. We're in favour of the modernization, I'm sure. We support the modernization of the army. But we need combat vehicles that are applicable to the Czech Republic. But she is not applicable to the Czech Republic, because at present our belt combat vehicles, which are of course older, and need to be modernised, and this SPD promotes, have a weight of about 15 to 17 tons. That means they can cross rivers, Vltava, Elbe and they can also move across Czech bridges. But those belt vehicles that are from abroad, those who apply for this contract, they're combat vehicles that weigh between 45 and 47 tons. This means that they are unable to overcome rivers in the Czech Republic, that they are sinking, and they are not able to cross bridges in terms of load capacity. Only in the Central Bohemia region is about 1,200 bridges. That means these belt vehicles that you want to spend CZK 52 billion on because they dictate it to you from Washington, and you're servile and you can't say no, so she's only applicable to foreign expansion missions in the name of NATO. Not for use in the Czech Republic. And that's what has to be said here. That's what everybody's trying to shut me up about when I want to say it. So the SPD isn't against the modernization of the Czech army, but this contract is the content problem you're designing. That's just 52 billion to spend huge, massive public money in the name of NATO and foreign arms companies, and it doesn't bring anything to us, the Czech Republic, except maybe the vehicles will go somewhere in Afghanistan, where the mission, of course, has failed. I was the only one who pointed it out here. So we want the Czech army's strategy to change to defend Czech territory and defend Czech citizens. That's what the SPD is promoting. And to fit the selection procedures for modernization and investment in the military. In that case, you can't realize, and I also blamed Andrej Babiš, yeah, eventually the implementation of the contract didn't happen, it was postponed, and it's good that it was postponed in the end, because we just want those parameters to be different, so it's fighting vehicles applicable to our republic. But in that case, even with our budgetary problems, there is another way, and that is to invest in the reconstruction of existing vehicles. Which again is not Okamura's idea. It's been done by the Slovák and the Maďar now. So there's gonna be new armor, new equipment, and so on. By the way, our proposal also has a great advantage in involving the Czech industry, such as the Military Repair Plant and the like. And we need to invest now that the budget is in such a huge debt and deficit. There's a budget in record debt, so we weren't with the government, the SPD was the opposition party in the last parliamentary term, so we're not responsible for that, we were trying to correct the x proposals here, but we were outvoted by the others. We need... One of the tools to deal with the state's budgetary and economic crisis is to invest in it. But we cannot invest, it is not an instrument, by investing in a much more advanced and richer German economy. I hope so. He understands the economic layman. And that's obviously a lot of them here, in the government, I think. In the government. I'm not some renowned economist either, but those principles, I'm not an economist, but these principles are, of course, clear to me. So our proposal, of course, is to make this second largest contract ever, which the government is in charge of... It's just, Prime Minister, before you leave, I remind you of the government's resolution, the House's resolution that ministers are supposed to be here, okay? So we don't have to take a break. No, I'm just pointing out that you were leaving so we could hear each other here. There. Now I've stopped you, and that's good. I just wanted to say that one of the instruments is to invest in the crisis. But we have to invest in this by investing in the Czech companies, in the Czech economy, in Czech employees, in Czech tax payers, and turning the public money back into the Czech state budget. So that's what I wanted to explain to you about the investment commitment of 2% of GDP. We disagree with this, with the commitment, because of course that would mean tens of billions an extra year, if we had 2% of GDP, today it's 1.3 something, it's a share of defense. But at the same time, we're saying because there's really no money today because of that huge debt from the previous government, which means... Now I don't want to discuss the previous government and this, let's do this to this government. And I mean, even from this point of view, that would be the most sensible solution. So the SPD says: We support the soldiers, we support the Czech army, we want to change the strategy as I said, to defend Czech territory and Czech citizens, and we want to modernize the army, invest in it, but we really want it to go to the defence of Czech citizens and Czech territory. Not just throw money out the window for foreign companies. And those places where the technology, equipment and equipment could modernize the military, we have all these ideas and designs in the SPD. [[12.30 hours]] After all, I suspect that not only one charterer, the only charter signatory, and the political prisoner here in the House is a member of the SPD club, Jaroslav Bašta, but I suspect we have the only former professional soldier here, the retired colonel Radovan Vích, our MP, who is an army expert. He graduated from both secondary military school and high military school, represented the Czech Republic and in Brussels as a member of the General Staff, so that's exactly what we have analysis, and I confess that I have the information from him, of course, because he has the perfect overview of military equipment and how it is. So, of course, we in the SPD are both personnel and programmed not only to rule, but, of course, to comment on this crazy government statement of yours. I would also like to mention that Minister Kupka here, Minister of Transport, spoke about wanting to cut the fare discounts for seniors and students, that he wants to cut it. We don't agree with that, because people are getting more expensive these days. Everything gets more expensive for people. And it's the seniors and the students who don't often have money, so it's the groups that we, as the SPD, want to give some benefits so they can have basic life needs. And the fact that you have to take a train somewhere, you want to, come on, don't be mad at me, which I think we should keep this benefit, we should keep the discounts. And again, you say there's no money. But I've been telling you all along that money is for you to cut political nonprofits - money! What good is it to the citizens now that you pay a nonprofit called the Refugee Aid Organization? Not you, specifically, but government money makes it work. Organization for Refugee Assistance. This is Mr. Rozumek, who even brazenly sued the Czech state, it was about two years ago, in the name of two Afghan illegal migrants, and he sentenced 150,000 crowns more on the Czech state that the police allegedly put them in another detention facility. That's unbelievable! That's what I blamed the government of Andrej Babiš for paying for this nonprofit, but it goes on, I found out. That means it's an anti-state nonprofit! And so are the nonprofit organizations that are promoting the European Union, gender, multiculties. What's the point of these people now if they don't have enough power? So please don't take this expense, and let's just leave the retirement discount and leave the student discount and all the other stuff I said. We improve the availability of healthcare, improve the social system. Now our Member, Lucie Šafránková, proposed only a small increase in support for disabled people yesterday - a contribution to care to increase. That's some shit. I mean, we have, if I have the right information, we have about a million people with disabilities in society. Yes, it's the visible disabilities and the invisible ones, if anyone wants to say that there aren't that many. No, no. So these are people who are born or have disabilities, and they should be helped by the state. What's the point of promoting some of these ideologies out of public money? So that's another one of our complaints that you want to cut off these discounts that brings benefits to decent people. Let's move on to security policy. Government security policy. So here I'd like to remind you of the appalling case of January 1 when an Afghánec in Karlovy Vary stabbed a woman and raped another girl. And we said it would be good to increase border control, the SPD wants. And we want zero tolerance for illegal migration in our territory. And, of course, the way we would deal with this, these problems, so is the referendum on EU withdrawal and EU withdrawal. [[NATO?]] That's what we're saying. Because if we had our own security and asylum policy, it can't happen here, these cases. But when borders are like colanders because Schengen doesn't work, of course that's a problem. So let me just remind you that there have been violent crimes in Karlovy Vary on New Year's Eve in which one woman suffered serious stab wounds, and the same perpetrator still managed to rape another girl. And it was about 20-year-old Afghánec who arrived in Karlovy Vary from Germany. A migrant. Then he was apprehended by the police. Police officers have done a great job here, and thanks to them, if the Minister of the Interior, whether the former Hamáček, who is no longer in the House, has already evaluated him, but now Mr. Rakušan is here, so I don't want to blame him now, because he was there shortly, but simply the Minister of the Interior, whether he was one or the poppy, didn't ensure the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Not to mention that every citizen in the Czech Republic has an alarm at home, a double lock, a safety pad because he doesn't feel safe. I look forward to it in quotation marks, so please don't tell me how safe the Czech Republic is. I mean, look at the Prague subway! For me when I went to school in Prague. I went to Křemencova Street Chemical High School, so I always took the subway from Malešice and Hostivař and it was in the 1980s, so I wore a backpack on my back. And the women had a purse on their side in the subway. Today, after we joined the European Union, fashion has changed. New fashion from the European Union. The backpack is worn on the belly and the purse, that's how the women have it in front of them, that's how they keep it from stealing from them in the subway. And another fashion - concrete roadblocks on Christmas and Easter markets. And then the previous government here told us that it was some sort of ornament or something, or a pot. It's because of the threat of terrorist attacks! So it's not normal and we won't get used to it in the SPD and we don't want to get used to it! Our ideal, where we want to return the Czech Republic, in this sense, is that we can - and I am not saying this back before 1989, so that some activist would not be here any more, such as Madam President, Mrs Pekarová, so I want to say that I was not talking about going back somewhere in the ancient past. I said back to when we could, I don't talk politically when we could, maybe it's in Japan. It's a big country, 103 million, Tokyo over 10 million, and women can go home at midnight and a skirt because everything is securely under control. But it's a democratic advanced country. Gauner just knows he doesn't stand a chance. There's minimal crime. And a decent man knows that he has the upper hand, that the rules are on the side of decent people. And that should be the aim of Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, but that's not what we have here in the programming statement! Nothing again! So this is also a thing. And why am I talking about this, this case, that we all know it's not the first case of rape by an Islamic migrant in our territory lately. I remember, reminding you of the horrible rape of a teenage girl in Lukavec near Terezín. It was also, it was again an African Islamic grant that penetrated us from Germany. Well, it's okay. And most of all, what I'm blaming, why I'm talking about it, is that not even the Interior Minister Rakušan, and you were already a minister, at least verbally able to express yourself to condemn it, to name the reasons, to propose a solution, and to condemn this case. But neither did the Prime Minister, and I called them on it, and he didn't say anything about it. He didn't say anything. For example, I would expect the government to stand up for the girl's parents, stand up for the girl, and say, that's not supposed to be here, and we're going to do that, and that's what we're going to do, to make sure these cases don't happen again and again. Nothing! Shut up! What you guys had time for is you guys added the newsstands! But it would be good for you to actually do something for these people. As far as energy is concerned, yesterday, that's what we saw here. In fact, the government said it and you said it, Prime Minister Fiala said it, yes, Prime Minister Fiala said it, that by the end of last year, you were already a government, so that you would present a plan to resolve the increase in energy. You didn't introduce anything! Even the media expected that the last week after Christmas, you promised to introduce a plan to solve the energy upheaval. You didn't introduce anything, even though it was promised before the election, I was in the polls, so you didn't introduce anything, because you don't have a plan. That's easy. Promises of mistakes! And in quotation marks, you solved aid to citizens and companies only by increasing some social benefits. Yes, the SPD has supported, supported, encouraged, that social aid be provided to those truly needed citizens. But you set it up with the system, and we also did it here yesterday, so we couldn't really do anything else, so we all supported it here in the finals, because you rejected the SPD proposal to end the abuse of doses that were inadaptable. That's the law that didn't go through last term because of your coalition. So now you've done it by increasing your housing allowance across the board, so beyond a certain range of decent and needy people, you've increased your dosages to inadaptable, even so-called inadaptable! [[12.40 hours]] But if the bill from the SPD pen, which we have tried in vain to enforce here - and now we have given it again, Lucie Šafránková here, our MP, has processed it with some other Members - so we would really target the citizens needed, the decent ones, the needy ones. Now, that's your bullshit again, you actually gave money to the inadaptable ones. People often ask me who's inadaptable. Simple definition: a person who is capable of working and who does not work in the long run does not look for work in the long term and his life programme is to abuse the social system in the long term. That's the definition of inadaptable. Everyone has the right to a short period of unemployment. Of course, everyone who needs to be from a wealthy family and wants to be in the home, because he works for one of the partners, and it's okay, we're not in socialism. But that's the definition of inadaptable. So now you've caused a lot of decent and working people, most of them, to get nothing, although everyone's energy is getting more expensive, but you've increased social benefits and inadaptable and inadaptable!, and at the same time most of the decent working people will not only pay their expensive bills, which are getting more expensive, but at the same time they will also start to contribute even more to the so-called inadaptable - apart from the really needed ones, for which you have slightly increased the circle of the needed ones, and we support that, that's okay. So that's a crazy suggestion again. But most of all, I'm asking - is that your conceptual solution? That's your whole plan to solve the energy upheaval? That's a crazy disappointment. That's crazy disappointment! And that's one of the many and many reasons I'm here to name why this government can't get the SPD's trust, and you see that's not one thing. This is one problem after another that does not address the needs of citizens. Of course, we have concrete suggestions on what to do about it. According to the SPD, the system solution is to put an end to the price increase for the Czech Republic to withdraw from the European Union's Green Deal, that is the so-called Green Deal, that is the crazy unrealistic plan, and to withdraw from the European Union's emission allowance trading system. The SPD movement promotes reasonable environmental protection, but not on the basis of terms and dates dictated from Brussels, but on the basis of the real needs of Czech citizens and the Czech economy, because Brussels is applying Green Deal across the board, while each member country has a different energy mix. So how can we apply the same terms as Germany? That's what's causing the huge problems. The Germans shut down nuclear power plants, now they're gonna buy energy from us, and because it's a solvent economy, they're gonna make it more expensive for us. Where are we? Where are we really? And the government isn't talking about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u19	Mr President, I apologise for interrupting you, but I have only been called upon - and it is true, it is so - to implement the resolution in force to participate in the members and members of the government. Let me just point out that it would be appropriate for the Presidents of the Clubs to help implement this resolution. Thank you and please have your word back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u20	Well, I would ask if you feel - and it is true, I see that there is no resolution - so I would ask you to call a break. If you think you're the president, put out a break for a few minutes. And when you think it's full, I'll keep going, so fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u21	From the way people are present in the hall, I believe that this is about the implementation of the resolution, just not everyone is sitting in their seats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u22	Sorry, I didn't hear you... So why did you interrupt me, now I don't get it. [[Laughter on the left.]] So is everybody here, or isn't they? They're all behind me, so I'm not watching. You interrupted me saying there was no resolution. True, this resolution says that ministers are to be present when discussing the government's trust. So are they here or are they not when you interrupt me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u23	There's been a quick correction, you have your word back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u24	But no one came to the O.R. [[Laughs in the hall.]] How to make amends? I mean, nobody came, so why are you interrupting me? I mean, there's 11 out of 18 of you. So, Prime Minister, please, I'd like to ask you to... So either you interrupt me because you know why you're interrupting me or don't interrupt me. Then what is it? I mean, no one's come into the O.R. since you interrupted me. Then why are you interrupting me? Are the ministers here or aren't they? I see there aren't all 18 ministers here now that I've looked. Well, I'd like to ask you to manage the meeting properly, please. You're here for the pirát, I know. But I just want to ask you. I have a speech, and I don't want to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u25	Vice-President, I have been asked -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u26	And what am I vice-chairman of?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u27	I have been asked to implement this resolution and it is true that I cannot see the Minister of Education present, which I am sorry, but it is really the implementation of this resolution. So, until all the members of the government are present, I am declaring a five-minute break, and I am asking the President of the MPs to help implement this resolution. [[Ambassador Okamura agrees.]] Thank you. So we're on break until 12.50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u28	The technical difficulties have already been corrected, excellent. So the pause has ended, the interruption to the return of the resolution in force. I will ask the members and members of the government to take their seats, and we can therefore continue with President Okamura's interrupted speech. I'm just gonna ask for real members and members of the government... [[Mr Tomio Okamura informs that he will not speak further.]] Given that the situation is unclear, given the large number of people standing in the hall, I would ask the members of the government if they could come to their seats. In view of the proximity of the lunch break, if there is no objection to any other procedure, I propose that we resolve the situation by declaring a lunch break and meeting again at 14.30. And I will ask very much the President of the Members' Clubs for help in fulfilling the valid resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, but I will also ask very much for consideration for the fact that there are certain needs, it is not possible to sit here all the time, logically. But we completely understand that this resolution needs to be followed. So a break is announced for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies due to a lunch break until 14.30 pm. I'll meet you back here at 2:30. And I remind the members of the Organizing Committee that the Organizing Committee is taking place immediately, i.e. around 13 o'clock, in room 106.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with one point today, and that is the Czech Government's request for a vote of confidence. I will ask Mr Tomio Okamura, the President, to continue, if he is interested, in his performance with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. It will also be prepared with priority rights, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please. [[Mr Okamura argues that he will not perform until all the ministers are present.]] Yes, I have here an objection from President Tomio Okamura that the condition of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 3rd meeting of 23 July 1996 when the Chamber of Deputies states that all members of the Government will attend the opening meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the approval of its agenda and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is the request of the Government of the Czech Republic. [[The ministers are gradually coming.]] Mr President, you can see that the benches have filled up, that ministers are coming, they are moving in the hall. [[Mr Okamura reports that he requires a full number of ministers, i.e. eighteen.]] We can count them. [[He's counting.]] There aren't 18 of them yet. Therefore, if you have the opportunity to contact the ministers and ministers to attend the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, or the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 3rd meeting of 23 July 1996 obliges them to take part in the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is the Czech Government's request for a vote of confidence. [[Mr Okamura requests a recess so that all ministers can attend.]] Yes, given that this resolution is not implemented, I am declaring a five-minute break, that is, by 14.37, and I will ask the Prime Minister or fellow Members of the MPs to ensure the participation of all ministers. So we'll meet at 14.37 and the meeting is hereby adjourned. [[The hearing was suspended at 14.32 pm. During the intermission, the President of the MPs requests that they come to the chair's counter for consultation. The negotiations continued at 14.37 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a meeting of the club presidents. I'm notifying you that the meeting will be adjourned for another five minutes, which means 14.42 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u30	So, ladies and gentlemen, after I was interrupted before lunch, I'd like to pick up...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u31	Mr President, you're a good starter, you're not losing a minute, but we still have a minute of interruption, anyway, I think you can proceed, it seems that... Yes, the meeting was adjourned until 14.42, so hold on one second. I know you have a lot on your mind, just a minute. You can start now, it is 14.42, the meeting can continue, and so can you, Mr President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, after I was interrupted by Vice-President Richterová before lunch, I would follow up on my speech to the government statement. So I would like to mention some other topics. Now, I would take a short look at these government measures against covid-19, because we were promised that these government measures would not be chaotic, that they would have logic, but yet we can see the reality that this is accompanied by chaos and confusion over confusion. Let me give you an example, for example, of logic. In the government's action to test against covid-19 disease, only vaccinated and PCR is not enough in the pub or restaurant if you are not vaccinated. Such a person is without infectivity. On the other hand, the third dose vaccination will also be tested in the workplace. So we see that logical measures are not here. Of course, when I added some other chaotic statements by the Minister of Health, Mr Válek, who said right after the start that Czech citizens would need a PCR test on their return to the Czech Republic, so he said it this afternoon, so many Czech citizens abroad got confused, started ordering PCR tests somewhere abroad, didn't know what and how, and after a few hours it was demented that there would actually be no need for PCR tests on Czech citizens. So when I think again of the next statement by Minister Válek, and rightly one of the big TVs, I suspect TV Nova, was quoting right in the main news of the statement when he said, "In our government, it's all gonna be understandable, there's no chaos, you can count on it, I personally guarantee it." So you can just see that this government is not a government of experts. And I say for myself that if the government orders any testing measures, it must always properly justify them, materially and organizationally secure them, and also fully, and especially in time to pay them back. Now, I am not going to address these specific measures in my speech, because we are talking about a government statement and a government trust, so I will leave my comment in this direction that the government is also communicating in this regard. And frankly, if you ask citizens outside whether they even know what the measures are, then, of course, during this government, the confusion continues and people are already very upset. That's for the measures, so there can't be our trust either, because they were promising experts and calming the situation, and that's not what's happening here. I would also like to comment on the correspondence vote because this government is promoting the introduction of correspondence voting in the Czech Republic. They're going at it really hard, they're going at it completely without scruples, because, of course, in the fastest possible time, he approved the Senate's correspondence vote - already to be here, and, of course, there's a vote to be made on Friday. It is obvious that this is one of the main, most important priorities of this government - not helping citizens through the increase in energy, there is no plan, even though they promised him to introduce him by the end of the year, where Petr Fiala did not bring any plan. But what he has brought is the immediate priority of spending time here by introducing a correspondence vote. And this is an extremely serious moment, because this correspondence vote... The SPD disagrees with the introduction of correspondence voting in the Czech Republic. I'll tell you why. Because, first of all, I am not really sure that at the moment we can technically manage the introduction of a correspondence vote, because - I will give a specific example. Last spring, the census started, and you all remember that the Czech Statistical Office - although the census, let's say, in terms of influence on the constitutional system of the Czech Republic, is certainly not at the level of the elections, because the elections really decide the future direction of the whole Czech Republic - and, as you know, the census system fell immediately. The system went down right away, so there was trouble with that. At the moment that we are not settled at the level of the Czech Republic, the government is not finished with the census, and last year, these were basically problems, so imagine that we would now introduce a correspondence vote. But we can't afford to be there for a second, not even a hint of such a problem. Then there will really be a challenge to the elections. People in the streets can be here, too, because people's dissatisfaction will, of course, be justified and doubt about the course of the election. So you're in a hurry here and you want a correspondence vote at all costs, and even the current technical problems to secure the current agenda are not solved here at all, which would guarantee the democratic and transparent course of the election. Another argument, of course, is: yes, you can say a hundred times that in most countries of Europe and the like, there is some form of correspondence vote. But that's not an argument, you have to talk about reality in the Czech Republic - that's why I'm talking about it, about reality in the Czech Republic, that we don't have it done here. Of course, there are also arguments from advanced countries, because, as we know, the last presidential elections in Austria were called into question in the second round and the second round was repeated, in neighbouring Austria, one of the most advanced countries in the world, precisely because of the problems with the correspondence choice. Yes, we can say: These were such problems and poppy, but they were problems with the institute of correspondence elections. This must have been the second round. If the correspondence option, in short, wasn't there, there wouldn't be a repeat of the second round, I suppose, or if that were the way I would say it in the standard way. So that's how it is. Of course, the elections in the US, but I am deliberately talking about Austria, where it has been clearly demonstrated, the second round has been repeated, and it is the country next to us. Of course, it's a problem in the US, because you can say a hundred times that it did, but that literally in about millions of Američan, as we see, there's an aftertaste and that there's a loss of confidence in the democratic system, so that's just a fact, that's a fact that no one can question. And in my opinion, the one who holds true democracy is not only misleadingly and not only on the outside, so we cannot - and that should be the concern of all of us who are in the House, there are a few parties here - so we should not really allow any system, which, even in the slightest hint, could cause some doubts in relation to the elections. That would be a really bad move. [[14.50 hours]] So we just, in my opinion, want to make these elections less transparent. It just doesn't suit the government, because you didn't get a majority of the votes in this system. I think that is quite simply put, because in this system you have won a minority of the votes cast. Therefore, in line with some trends in some countries, you simply want to help yourself with the so-called correspondence vote, in my opinion, even though these question marks are serious, and I think one of the most serious arguments is with the Czech Statistical Office from last year's census. That's why we as the SPD, especially for these reasons that I said, what I said to you as the government, the last one, so I think it's more like your political argument, but the technical, practical and completely verifiable arguments I said here, and the SPD just doesn't support the introduction of a correspondence election. So that's another reason why we - of course, this government doesn't have confidence, but I said I was interrupted in my speech, I've said dozens of reasons before. So now, by the end of my performance, where I rather comment on the other reasons and the other reasons. Well, the last thing I would like to say is that when I looked at who was enrolled in the debate to trust the government, I wasn't pleasantly surprised that even most ministers weren't logged in. Basically, almost none. [[He's turning to ministers.]] Yeah, no, I get it, yeah, but you have priority rights. [[The ministers are laughing.]] You have the right of priority, I would expect Mrs Černochová, the Secretary of Defense, who has been active here for the entire last term, to be equally active in explaining her priorities - and yeah, yeah, yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u33	Mr President, just to be clear. You weren't on the board either, because you had priority rights...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u34	I had a written application. [[That's right, that's right.]] But I'm not talking about Secretary Černochová. I am talking about the fact that most ministers, from what I have seen, are not registered to speak. And I'd like you all to get out. I looked a while ago, before the break -- okay, so that would be great. I thought Minister Válek was coming out. No. [[Secretary of the War: I've been stretching.]] Yeah, you went for a stretch, huh? So I just wanted to say that you were so determined to get up here, that's all. 'Cause I asked you questions, so I thought you were already volunteering to explain, but so I just wanted to say, but I'm not gonna downplay it, it's a serious debate. So I'd like to ask, but I'd like to go to what I was talking about. I would particularly like to ask three ministers to speak, these are the extra ministers, because there were 15 ministers here. We're in a huge deficit. Fourteen ministers. We're in a huge deficit, and now you've created 18 ministers. I'll be specific about who I'm talking about. It is Mikuláš Bek, Minister for European Affairs, new Minister's office, then Mrs Helena Langšádlová, Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, and then the new Minister Michal Šalomoun, Minister for Legislation and Chairman of the Government Legislative Council. These three functions have been created newly and due to these functions, I repeat, a circus of 74 new sites has been created for your service and for your secretariat. Only the jobs for your service and for your secretariat, based on what we've seen, it's worth more than 40 million crowns a year, so that's what the cost of the cars with the driver and so on. So, especially from the three of you, and also from the Prime Minister, because he left it out in his speech, I would like to hear why the current functions, such as the Prime Minister of the Legislative Council, were not sufficient, for example, the Deputy Minister for Europe... I know, because there will be an EU Presidency, but that is all. These are excuses, you don't have to have a lot of other functions, Minister of Science, Research and Innovation. So what I'd like to say is, why are these three ministers created extra? And you originally said, which is important, and we all remember that after the election, when the media asked you, you said it wouldn't be any more expensive. We all remember that you said the three new ministers, that it wouldn't be extra cargo. But that's what you lied about, because in the media it went through that because of these places, there's gonna be seventy-four, 74 I suspect, new jobs for their service, and only for those employees, workers will be over 40 million crowns a year. So this is where we need to discuss it, because... Personally, I think you have more ministers, the eighteen of them don't fit in one row, so you can see that it's not standard, that even the House isn't adapted to so many ministers. That's why Minister Šalomoun sits here in the second row. So you can see that my words confirm that this is highly irregular. So here's the question, why? Why, and why did you say that? Now that there's a need to add money to people and there's no need for deputys. Or there may be another reason - perhaps the Foreign Minister, Mr Lipavský, is not able to cover the agenda for European affairs, even though he is a foreign minister. That could be a reason. But in that case, it would be a good thing to say fair and square. Then we have the Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, so it certainly fell at least partly under Minister Havlíček in the previous term of office, or the Prime Minister here points to himself. Yeah, well, there were some people who used to stand for it, and at the very least, it can be dealt with in the form of Deputys and others. So here are the three new ministers who are extra, I'd like to explain to the citizens why. And it is important for this reason that we, who are in opposition, should also be able to comment on this and, if necessary, comment on that statement. 'Cause that's how I feel that some of you don't want to express yourself here, and then there's not a debate going on here, 'cause all or a lot of you are sitting like hell. This means that this is very important, and I would therefore like to ask you to participate in the debate as well. I'm the one who put the questions in a row. And in conclusion, it is clear from the above that what this government represents, and what it really promotes in practice, is an evil that no one in the SPD is going to raise for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate now includes Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová with priority rights. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I will begin my speech with what Mr Okamura has just pointed out here, and this is the first time a new government has sat on the bench here yesterday. Prime Minister Petr Fiala was not present because he was on the first official trip to Slovakia, and his deputy, Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan, introduced us to all ministers here. The Prime Minister spoke here today, presented us with a programming statement, and I was very surprised that not all ministers appeared because they participated in the programming statement. I know there are a lot of them, but still, if every minister came forward and said what his goal was and what he wanted to achieve at his resort. If he had said three things, I think it would not only be appreciated by the Chamber of Deputies, but it would have been appreciated by the citizens, because the way it sounded yesterday at Gremia and everywhere, trust in the government is an act of importance and I think that if ministers were appointed to these positions, so they should say where their resort will go, where it will aim and what it wants to achieve. [[15.00 hours]] These parties, which are now ruling and ruling here in the past, have been telling us all along that they are ready to rule. When we received the coalition agreement, we stopped at a lot of things and said, "We'll wait for the program statement, because that can tell us what the government's goals will be and where we can move in four years. We received a program statement at the end of last week, and if you look on the other side of this program statement, we have a sentence here: We want a state that is smart, efficient and economical. And I would like to ask all the members of the government who is to be economical, people, or the current government? I mean, if I'm asking someone to start saving money, I have to start doing it apart, and I have to set an example. But the first step that happened was that people didn't get paid in the public sphere, and that is the people who are in the first line in the pandemic, which are policemen, firemen and soldiers, and I am very sorry that the Minister of the Interior, when the government approved this step, was bragging about this increase of 700 crowns. And then I heard from a number of people who wrote to me that not only did the policemen add 700 crowns of rude, but at the same time their funds for a meal voucher were taken away, and in some regions a stabilization allowance was withdrawn. I can hear the Minister here now, who says it's not true, so I believe he's going to perform and he's going to explain it, because at that moment people are writing to me that not only did they not get a raise, those who stood on the front line, 1,400 crowns, but at the end it looks like they're not just going to have a plus 700, but they're going to be at minus 1,000 crowns. So it says, "Bravo, Minister! But I suppose now that it's ringing, the Minister will perform. At the same time, the Independent Trade Union of the Police of the Czech Republic commented on the removal of a diet for police officers, so I think it should have a clear meaning and that it should know that. If I have had the opportunity to speak in the region at what stage it is now, it is clear that by having a budget make-up, at the moment it is not known how the budget will be approved, and so far, the police are probably paying for it with their means. The budget is yet to be seen, but there is this great concern, and you can see that the Independent Trade Union is also expressing itself. And now that we say that we want to be economical, it has already been said here, we have 18 ministers, three more than usual. At every ministry, we already have political deputies who can't drive anyone, they don't have an agenda, or they have a salary of more than CZK 100,000, they have a car, they have assistants, they have a secretariat. I told you that in Debata on Sunday, a political deputy equals a newsstand. At the same time, at the end of the year, at the first government, the government approved an increase of 74 additional seats. I could go on like this. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 5, which says that Members elected as independent political party candidates are entitled to establish a membership club. These entities ran as a coalition, as a coalition of the SPOL and as a coalition of PirSTAN, and it would be fair if there were two parliamentary clubs in the Chamber of Deputies right now, but five parliamentary clubs were formed here right after the elections. And why did five deputies form? Well, because each member's club receives funds, the president of the MP's club has other benefits, whether they're assistants, drivers, cars and others. We have, historically, probably the smallest parliamentary club here, we claim that this is contrary to § 77 para. 5, when the Pirate Party has a membership club with four Members, and of that it has a chairman of the MP club, vice-chairman of the MP club, so you can see for yourself, and it would be fair, that is the fair thing. But I don't know what the word "smart, efficient and economical" is. Yes, I could take the "smart" to that section 77 paragraph. 5, and that's "saving" - so another: freeze the salaries of politicians. I mean, we've pushed this place, because we've all approved it here in the Chamber of Deputies, freezing politicians' salaries for five years. Why didn't the Senate approve? Senators are sitting there for your political group. It was enough to approve, and it could have been valid, effective from 1 January, and we could have frozen our salaries for five years. I can only say one thing about this: then take discounts on the fare for seniors, students, especially seniors. Do you know what the main motto of old people is? It's our job to make sure our seniors are active, because if they're active, they'll be here with us any longer. I think the fare discounts were the ones that kept seniors active. They could travel, they could ride, the discounts on their part were very much used. But as you say, we're probably going to go back the way that it's going to be dealt with in some way, you're saying there's going to be less administrative burden and so on. As I saw yesterday regarding the resolution of the energy crisis and the Public Support Act, where we could have approved, and it was pushed through by the Minister for November and December, a zero percent VAT on energy, so we'd rather do it on the way that there would be queues at the employment offices and there would be an incredible administrative burden. I have to say one thing. You know that I'm the former mayor and the former chieftain and that I left my position as chieftain two years ago because of motherhood. Still, I ran in the regional election two years ago, and now that I see it and sort of compare it, it reminds me so much of the regional election. A number - and even in our region in Karlovy Vary we won by 11 percent, but we did not create the coalition because in all regions where it was possible to create without movement YES, and it was in ten out of thirteen regions, it was not possible in the three regions, that is why it came to this, so it was created against us - for example, in the Karlovy Vary Region we have eleven-calice, here we have five-calice. And do you know where the 11-caliber came from? In paid places. So many positions were created just to keep the 11-calice together. So now that I'm looking at it, it reminds me that what happened in our region is now being converted to government, central level, because by being the five subjects, each subject wants to be represented somewhere. And that's why we have to have so many positions, and that's why I think these things will continue with the service bill and other things. [[15.10 hours]] Yesterday, when we approved here the Social Support Act on benefits in connection with the increase in energy prices, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs stood here and says: We now have to speed every crown. Okay, but first of all, you have to start with yourself! But you're going the other way. People who work at health stations today don't get a penny. We lack nurses in hospitals, doctors. Yeah, they'll get a six percent raise, that's settled. But what about the paramedics? What about assistants, nurses? Do you know how many they take at the hospital? Fifteen to twenty thousand! That is why it was agreed within the trade union with Mrs Žitníková that these professions, which are in short supply and which have such a small financial value, would receive the CZK 1,400. These are the people who transfer patients, and without them, hospitals won't work either. Homes for seniors. There are caregivers in senior homes, but there are also cookbooks, there are cleaning women, there are other workers. They're also people who stand in the front line, and you haven't given them anything either. And now we're going back, or we're going to move on, to the next password. I call it the motto you have in your programming statement: "This is why we have chosen a policy of openness and transparency." And now we would look at the openness and transparency. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan has performed here several times within the framework of our President Miloš Zeman that the surroundings of the President are a mafia environment. Now, let's talk about openness and transparency. We will now learn recently that the Minister of the Interior, since he was probably not yet the Minister of the Interior, met with these people, whom he called or called the Mafia environment, twice. Once probably, even when he wasn't a minister and once when he was a minister. And now I would say that yesterday, when we approved the Social Support Act again, we asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to talk to the CEO of the Labor Office about extending the office hours. The truth is, the minister came to me and said, "The office hours have spread, he's shown it to me." Well, for me, that office hours will spread on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8:00 to 11:00, so it's not for me, for citizens, to expand office hours. The Bureau must be here for the citizens, not the citizens of the office. I've been saying that for many years, and I stand by it. The Bureau must be here for our citizens. And after our resolution, when we asked him practically to negotiate with the CEO of the Labor Office on the possible extension of office hours, Mr Michálek of the Pirate Party, through Madam President, spoke here and said that we would not be dictating such order for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to meet - or, respectively... with the Director-General of the Labour Office. So I don't know, I think that if the CEO of the Labour Office is under the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, that he should probably communicate with him, and if the agenda falls under him. And now the paradox, huh? The paradox is that, and I'd like to get to that, is that Mr. Michálek was upset that we could want this. Then there was a second meeting of Mr. Rakušan, on December 7, 2021, when he saw Mr. Police President. Yes? With General Jan Švejdar. There must be a large number of mayors here in the Chamber of Deputies. I was in the position of the governor. I would never, ever dare, until I was elected mayor or chieftain, to deal with someone. I think that this meeting took place on December 7, 2021, and it has been said here today since some of my previous speakers that it is political. The police must be independent. And then it came to pass that the police president announced that he was going to quit. And the police president, General Švejdar, who is now the police president of the third year, is very positively perceived by police officers. I mean, he was the one who had to take care of all the stuff within the covid, whether it's securing state borders, whether it's securing things about closing down regions and others. Yes? So we say openness and transparency, and we have it in the programming statement. And Mr Michálek, through Madam President, tells us here that we cannot work within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or encourage the Minister to speak with the Director-General of the Labour Office. And these things can happen? And to the police, so that's where Deputy Keřka is going now. Yes? So if anybody even realizes that the Police of the Czech Republic are protecting our security here, and we have about 45,000 in there these days - I'm not saying the number quite right - police officers. One important thing has been done to our government. In 2010, 47,000 police officers were in their state. Today - I said the number at the moment - it's about 44 and a half thousand, almost 45,000, but one thing was that 3,000 police officers increased. And these police officers went above all to the primary units, to the district department, to the DMV, to the foreign police. I presume and believe that the Minister of the Interior will perform today and that he will confirm that these places that have succeeded in asserting that they will remain, if they do not increase. So I believe that's the case. There. And now, because I said I was the former mayor and the governor, and since I would still like to defend the cities, municipalities and regions, I would like to open up the budgetary determination of taxes here. I'd like to explain - the same thing I said about seniors - the same thing I said about mayors. If the mayors are satisfied in our municipalities, which we have about 6 250, our citizens will be satisfied as well. You know, when I was mayor, our tax budget went away. And do you know who took our tax budget? Unfortunately, it was you. And it hurt so much in those villages. I can tell you that when I draw up a budget or when I check a budget every month, you have to have the revenue part, and the revenue part is based on the budget determination of taxes. And most of all, of course, the value added tax, because it is the tax that is most formed. So from 21.4 percent these municipalities got 19.93 percent. In 2013, municipalities received 161 billion, in 2017, it increased to 21.4 percent and since 2021 to an incredible 25.84 percent. This means that in 2013, municipalities received 161 billion and now receive about 250 billion. [[15.20 hours]] When you're also talking to the mayor, you don't hear signals at the moment. And I can tell you that it wasn't easy, even though I was the head of the Union of Cities and Cities, and this was a success, and I'm going to believe that this will be preserved for cities, municipalities and regions. Thanks to this, cities, municipalities, regions could make a number of investments and improve individual locations. At the same time, by 2013, the regions did not receive a crown to repair the roads of the second and third classes. This could only have been dreamed of by the regions. I know it was never easy to negotiate, but every year the county got 3, 4 billion and it helped because the network of twos and threes is huge, 49,000 kilometers of second and third-class roads. And I will now read in the programming statement that there will be an extension of the toll system on the first and second-class roads. But did anyone negotiate with the county that the toll system would spread on their roads? On the roads that are in their possession? Well, I don't know if it's the way it was with the emergency situation where the commanders were told that they were okay with it, and then when I asked the commanders, the captains told me that nobody talked to them about it. So let's see if this programming statement has been pre-negotiated with them in any way. And I would like to have answers to these questions as part of the programming declaration. I'd like to know how the service bill will change. We all know that the Service Act has been passed here to depolitize the state administration. Yes, it was one of the conditions, and I can tell you that at that time I was at the Ministry of the Interior, and if we had not adopted the service law in the form in which it is, we would not have received European money. It was one of the conditions and the European Commission is very closely monitoring it. And now we learn - these are, of course, things that are not confirmed, which is why I would like to do this... and the law of service is in the competence of the Minister of the Interior, because the Deputy Minister of State is independent, but he is based at the Ministry of the Interior to answer me, please - what will continue to be changed in the Service Act, because the information is such that we will not only have political Deputys, but that we will transform these current Deputys into Chief Directors and bring them in. So, I figure out how many deputy professors we have today in expert quotes, so all of these specialized deputy directors would be senior directors and we'd be bringing more people into the vice presidents' positions, so we'd have more political Deputys. So the first question: what will be the changes in the Service Act? The second question: it says in the programming statement that you will be making an amendment to the Service Act, which affects police officers, and I wonder what will be changed in the amendment to the Service Act, because it is a great fear for police officers that it will concern the service. And even now in that territory, by being covido rewards and so on, it can cause policemen to leave, because the pension is always paid on average, and by having rewards in that year, the average is bigger. So, withdrawal, I see it's being handled, and everyone's worried about it, so if I could get an answer to that question. And the last question, because I also read in the programming statement that there will be a change in the law of competence or that there is a proposal for that, it is also at the hands of the Ministry of the Interior, so whether I could get an answer on what will be changed under the law of competence. I believe that I will receive the answers from the members of the government, because if I look at the programming statement, there is a sentence that "we will work constructively with each other and with the opposition." And when I saw your press conference after one government, you keep saying that you're gonna communicate better, and then I saw that the journalists could have asked three questions and it was said that the press conference was over and no further question was allowed. So I wouldn't want to get into the fact that all the things that I've been talking about here, that it's going to be economical, that it's going to be transparent and that it's going to be open and so on so that we don't have to say that the password that might be there, that we're not going to talk, we're not going to communicate. I think that today's government, today's ministers should be involved in today's debate and debate on the programming statement, because that is the document on which we are expressing ourselves today and deciding on trust. I think all my arguments and all the things I've mentioned here have a clear conclusion, and that's that trust the government can't get from us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u37	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. The President of Radim Fiala is now registered with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u38	Thank you for your word. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, the purpose of the existence of a government is to address and not talk about problems. It should have concrete proposals and procedures to address them. So far, it has been declared, in the programming statement, only general passwords and emotional performances about who is responsible and, above all, warning whom citizens are not to listen to. Yes, our country is certainly not in good shape and requires a bold and rapid change in domestic and foreign policy to address its problems. What are these problems, and what do we think is their solution? Firstly, the world and the Czech Republic are in a major security crisis. This crisis increases the risk of conflict and destabilisation, including conflicts and destabilisation in Europe. The interests and sides of these conflicts cross and intersect within the structures to provide strategic stability for our country. In cooperation with Turkey, but also with the support of Germany, Russia's power role in the Balkans, the Mediterranean, the area of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe is growing. It must be openly said that the effort to permanently suppress Russia is over if we do not want a war for which the so-called West is not ready. China's importance is growing worldwide, whether we like it or not. Within a few years, it will be the world's economic leader and no one will question that Taiwan is a part of it. If we continue our naive policies of enmity with China and Russia, we will end badly. If we hope that others will take care of our safety, we can look forward to an unkind surprise, such as in 1938 or 1968. There are destabilizing processes going on west of us, linked to the collapse of politics, multiculturalism, promoting migration and tolerance to radical Islam. The likelihood of destabilisation, which will accelerate the covid-19 crisis, the energy and social crisis, is high. [[15.30 hours]] What needs to be done? Above all, it is necessary to strengthen relations with our neighbours, and especially with the Visegrad Four neighbors. Closer security and political cooperation are needed with these neighbours. Figuratively speaking, the borders and interests of Poland, Hungary and Slovakia are also Czech borders and Czech interests. Our defence and security policy in this context needs a new concept across the country. That's exactly what we're breaking up with the five-caliber government. Enemy acts against Poland, against Hungary, adoring the multicultural and bureaucratic European Union, Brussels, for which we are just an economic colony, further pressure on Russia... It's like it's trying to create some kind of conflict. These are fatal, unacceptable things the SPD can never relate to. This means that we cannot give this government confidence even for this reason. Our country is dealing with serious economic problems in terms of price increases and high debt. The cause of these problems is the European Union's failed energy policy - perhaps not a failed but a failing one. The European Union's fiscal socialism, based on the printing of new euro to buy bonds, is also heading towards an unstoppable failure. Why is there nonsense about Green Deal and other economic-social ideas coming at us? The European Union is in the hands of dangerous ideologists. Building a new world according to neomarxist editing - this is the management elite and others are just meat dependent on subsidies. Today, the construction of this new world is to be paid out of taxes by people who work and do business, that is, all of us. In the name of the supposed climate rescue of the world, we are to sacrifice our culture, our standard of living and our freedom. It's in our country's best interest to face it. How? Following the model of Poland and Hungary to declare the superiority of our country's interests and laws by European Union standards. If this seems to be an extreme proposal, I will add that a similar judgment was given by the Constitutional Court in Germany. I'm naive. How our strength in the European Union will increase by the Presidency is part of a fairy-tale policy. I will stand here after the Presidency, Prime Minister, and I will ask you, what have you negotiated, how have you secured the energy crisis, how have you resolved it, whether the energy will cost less and whether the citizens of the Czech Republic, if you have brought a solution for them? And I just hope I don't know that you're again looking for a common European methodology, a common European solution. I can tell you today that it doesn't exist. The progress of the covid-19 crisis must also be addressed with regard to people's freedom and rights. The disease that objectively exists can easily be used to take action against human freedom and rights. This is a real danger, as the course of the disease is connected, in addition to suffering, with a huge business. This business exists, and those who are getting richer from it will want to keep getting richer. The future of the fifth or tenth dose imposed by unprecedented discrimination against people and the restriction of their rights and freedoms cannot be accepted. Here it is necessary to rationalise measures against disease and to listen to people who blindly do not defend the concept of pandemic and vaccine tyranny. It is necessary to maintain the fact that health is above all the responsibility of every citizen. In my opinion, it is necessary to move from pandemic to endemic disease. What I am saying here is incompatible with, for example, the mandatory vaccinations you are promoting, or, in my opinion, with an unconstitutional ban on people entering public spaces without vaccination. These people didn't steal anything, they didn't threaten anyone, they didn't kill anyone, they did nothing. And if they prove to be healthy, in my opinion, you're preventing them from doing so unconstitutionally. These are things for which we cannot put our trust in this government. There is no clear assurance in the programming statement that the rights and freedom of people will clearly stand over the pharmaceutical business. The government has submitted a government statement that lacks the courage to really solve fundamental problems. It relies blindly on the structures of the European Union. Representatives of the government coalition are destroying Visegrad Four's relationships, which are vital. There will be lack of courage to support Czech companies and entrepreneurs and touch on the interests of foreign corporations, which have made the Czech Republic an economic colony and a montovna with cheap labor. Neither I nor the SPD can give this government confidence. We will vote against the proposal to trust the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This has been the last act so far with priority rights, and we can now launch a debate to which Mr Patrik Nacher was the first to come forward and prepare Mr Karel Havlíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u40	Good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that if I was first in line, which I succeeded because I made a timely application that there would be more Members of the Coalition. Unfortunately, it's empty. I expected that void, like when we were closing in on midnight. But it's already empty with the first speaker, it's a little sad. I called it a holiday of democracy today, and for me, it's a holiday of democracy. I understand that this government has 108 Members, that it has a majority, that it is declaring it. However, this item is an opportunity for the Chamber of Deputies, for the opposition, to discuss the programming statement, to ask the government to take some of its suggestions. When else than today at this point? That means the most frequent questions I've had since this morning, how long will I have a speech, and when will it end today? I don't know. I have three pages of notes here, as you can see. [[It shows the paper described.]] I've done something by hand, I've crossed something out, what my colleagues have said before, so I don't repeat myself, and the rest - I improvise and speak down. I don't know how long it's gonna be, I don't know. I don't know when it's gonna end either. I'll remind you, when it was exactly mirrored, we ended sometime at 4:00 in the morning. I hope it won't be this long today, but at the same time, it doesn't apply that it ends at 3:00 in the afternoon and goes home just because you have 108 MPs. If I wanted to be a little bit funny, I could theoretically stretch it out as long as my colleague Farský doesn't fly to America, and suddenly you have one less MP in the vote. [[Laughs of some Members, especially in the left side of the hall.]] [[15.40 hours]] I've prepared it to have some structure, some personnel, and I've announced it in advance on social networks, a programming statement, and I'm going to interpret it all with my favorite double standard. After all, I've already said the two standard here, that's the length of the negotiations. If you don't mind the length of negotiations when you're in opposition, it shouldn't bother you when you're in a coalition. Likewise, when it comes to the presence of ministers, here to explain, because the audience asked me about it. Yes, when discussing the government's request for trust, there is a condition that they have to sit here all the time - I do not envy them - all ministers. It does not, of course, concern all discussions, first, second, third reading, it is only today. It's always been guarded in some way. I understand that if one or two ministers haven't been here for a while, it's okay. One time, when there weren't 15 of them and there were three of them sitting here, it's beating the hell out of it. And you've been pointing that out, too, so try to bite it off when this comes back to you because you promised change, so I assume you'll respect that. Before I go into this division, as I structured it, I would say that yesterday, in fact, accidentally, I think he exposed himself completely and showed the view of this government, and for me, it was significant. There were two topics. There was the topic of the internship of Jan Farský and the bill submitted freeze the salaries of constitutional officials. Now imagine the situation, if it were mirrored the other way around, if a member of the ANO movement went somewhere for eight months, it was discovered in retrospect that he knew before the election. In the end, it is not for six months, but for eight months, he would not give up the mandate, however congratulations to him, I wish him, and I will even commend him in one part of today's speech, my colleague Farský. And can you imagine the Prime Minister holding the coalition MP as well as the Vice Prime Minister? Try to look at it from this point of view. And here it went like this, like nothing was happening, and then a colleague of Farský is going to the internship. As well as submitting the bill, I've already made a bit of an indication of this here yesterday in the factual context. One of the reasons for extending the number of ministers to 18 - and it was confirmed by Jakub Michálek in our Sunday Partie debate - was to increase the quality of this government's work with a funny reference to the fact that we have a minister who was on the other hand at two resorts, and this will be the qualitative change. And we immediately found on the first proposal, even on the basis of the words of Minister Šalomoun, that he pointed out that the proposal might not be in accordance with the Constitution, that it could be unconstitutional. The government overruled him, so actually what he did there, the 16th, 17th and 18th, so the rest of the government doesn't actually listen to them, however you have a sentence in the programming statement - literally: "We will increase the quality of legislation, we will carefully consider each new regulation on the basis of an analysis of the expected impacts." So I'm talking about the first sentence - we're going to increase the quality of legislation. Well, if the Minister of Legislation gives you the heads-up - and he said it pretty clearly on the microphone here yesterday - and I want to thank him again - you're not gonna hear him out. Then I have two other things before I get to the staff and the programming statement, and that's what I've seen in the last three weeks in relation to the covid, because it's been the subject of the last year and a half. We now often hear that we will not know some of the measures or whether or not vaccination will be compulsory. We have to wait until mid-February because the omicron is unpredictable. However, when you acted in opposition, it seemed that the covid was predictable. So until you were in opposition, the covid was predictable, everything was clear, and you demanded a clear schedule of action from the government. The moment you took over the government's responsibility, the covid suddenly became an unpredictable matter. There's an omicron here. And you feel that it's not like that. When it was somehow, it was the other way around that when a whole new disease came here, a whole new virus, it was at that point - when already - unpredictable, while after two years we could predict some steps and some developments. It's the other way around for me. But I would even be able to be fair, to say that either it's unpredictable from the start, or it's predictable. But the way this government position is at this point, we're waiting for what's going to happen because omicron is something new and it's unpredictable - the Minister of Health said so. I'm also interested in your positions on some decisions. The moment you do something, it's the ability of the new ministers. And that's okay, if I were you, I'd praise myself too. However, the moment you fail, as I wrote to myself, it's because you inherited incompetent officials. But then you're responsible! I am thinking of some decisions - vague - at the Ministry of Health. And now for the individual chapters. Like I said, I'll start with the staff. This is where we talk about who's in the government. I'd look into who's not in that government, and logically, it should be there. And I mean - no, not Andrej Babiš, my colleague. [[He's turning to Minister Blazek.]] And I don't know if it's okay for you guys to yell at me like that, and then the audience thinks that if I lose the thread, I don't have the thought, but then when you hear the voices behind you, it's awkward. Maybe I miss Top 09 Chairman Markéta Pekarová. There's always been a rumor that the presidents of the coalition parties are part of the government. Yes, it's your decision, I'm not buying it, it's up to me to comment on it in some way and to shine a light on it - when other than the government's request for trust? Just as I don't see some people who have clearly defined themselves in the election campaign as experts in some area, typically Olga Richterová in the social field. It is not there, but it was clearly linked to the subject, the social issue. I also see that some colleagues who have been specialized in some topic are unexpectedly somewhere else - Marian Jurečka. I see him as a person who understands agriculture - I'm not a farmer, so I don't know if I can judge it that way - it's on social policy. Martin Baxa - education, is in culture. Ivan Bartoš - well, I take it digitalization - maybe all the pirát have it in them - I don't know why the Ministry of Regional Development. I'm not gonna judge some of the other ministers here because I don't really know some of them, so I guess that wouldn't be fair. I read at one of the ministers that it goes into that position to lose weight and learn English. Now that I look at the political... [[He's turning to Secretary War.]] No, no, no, you're not Madam Secretary. [[Minister of War: Just in case.]] Political Deputys - more than 20. Now, why am I talking about this? Because many of them - and we don't know how many today - will or will be... [[Minister Černochová gives the speaker material and leaves the hall.]] Thank you. I don't know if I should read it, or is that information just for me from the Secretary of Defense? That we have deputy ministers here who are former MPs who didn't get here anymore. I am thinking, for example, of Lukáš Kolářík - Deputy Minister of the Interior, whom I met in the debate on executions, Ondřej Profant at MMR, Josef Pavlovic was even an assistant and is at the Ministry of Health, Petr Třešňák at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Why am I talking about this? Well, because I think it's obvious here that you didn't have it prepared, the personnel policy, because if it were going to develop as standard, these politicians would be MPs and they would be sitting here. You'd have to have someone else in there as deputy. They didn't get in, and suddenly they became deputys. That's for me - you can choose who you want there, but that's not a conscientious personnel policy for me when you make those deputys out of those who were supposed to be MPs an hour before the election and have to sit here among us. That means they weren't the experts prepared to help you in your background. Don't be mad at me. [[15.50 hours]] On the other hand, in order to always balance this, I do not question the expertise of certain ministers. Typically Jana Černochová, who left here, is not because she gave me a message here, but because she is dedicated to the Ministry of Defence, Martin Kupka or Petr Gazdík in education. I'm not a professional fan of this, and I'm not gonna be that destructive critic like you used to be. I can tell. I think someone's right for it, someone's been profiling for ten, 20 years, and it's more or less left over for someone, or it's part of some kind of deal. Now, I'd be focusing on personnel that aren't directly related to the government, but which I'm interested in - some of which have already been suggested here - and which, if it were the other way around, if someone were to do it, they wouldn't have passed. Just visualize it. An appeal or a strange departure, to be more precise, then, of police President Jan Švejdar after speaking with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan, who was not yet Minister of the Interior when they met. Imagine that. What do you think you'd tell us if the nominee did it, that he'd meet with the police president? I heard the Minister's explanation, but still. Do you think if it were the other way around, you'd be cool? That's the change? You couldn't wait to be appointed? As well as the appeal of the directors of the Forests of the Czech Republic Josef Vojáček by Minister Jurečka, who was only temporarily appointed at that time. That could have waited a week, too. Can you imagine if someone from the original government did it? That you'd let it go? And in the double standard, don't let my colleague, Marian Jurečka, be angry with me in relation to the selection of the future governor of the Czech National Bank. And here I will remind you of what triggered Alena Schillerová when she criticized the CNB's rise in interest rates, so the bangal started on her to influence the Czech National Bank. It was even so strong that when I was in the pre-election debate for the Prague region, it was one of the main topics that Jakub Železný dealt with there, what is my opinion on influencing Czech National Bank Alena Schillerová. And now I have read - and I quote: "It is important that he be a person who is a really good candidate who will guarantee the CNB's independence," Jurečka said. "I have an opinion on this statement, but this debate is now part of the plenary of the presidents of the coalition parties," he added. To the head of the coalition party? Like they're gonna talk about the governor? So here we have a content statement criticizing the rise in interest rates - perhaps I expected those interest rates to rise - and the attack on my colleague, and here you will be speaking in plenary of coalition party chairmen about the independent future governor of the Czech National Bank? I don't know if the audience can get a picture of themselves. For me, it falls exactly into the double standard that you would be the first to point out. And now, as far as the government's programming statement is concerned, I'm going to have some questions, and I'm going to say some things that interest me. Of course, in conclusion, I will focus on two topics, which are savings and consumer protection, because that is not what you do there. I'm a little disappointed in that, but maybe we can fix this together. It initially seemed to me that the most common word in the programming statement was the word challenge. I kind of don't like it when I'm watching Sure, Mr. Secretary, so every time there's a challenge, it's funny to me. But then when I counted it, there's only six "calls" or "calls," but I found a hundred and fifty times "support," seventeen times "want" and sixty-six times "will be." Unfortunately, there isn't much about the measurable things that you could then verify by having a term. Probably the most in the transport section that I can get to, where the chapter is very detailed - bypassing Frýdek-Místek, you can see the detail of things where everything stands, unlike other chapters where there are such more general phrases. At random: foreign policy. I'd ask the Secretary of State who's on the phone what it means to review relations with Russia and China, if he could specify it in any way, because that's just how it's written, and I can't imagine under it. From the things I've chosen - and there won't be many, I crossed it out so I wouldn't be too long to make any sense: "We're bringing talent into the state administration." It says "talents," but at the same time you stopped wage growth. So I'm kind of wondering how you're gonna bring those talents in. The talent will be there if there's a proportional reward or a benefit. The moment you send to the company that it is necessary to cross the government out, choke - don't hold my word now, it's my term, maybe you didn't say it, so I don't know if you're gonna lure the talent in there. "Modern government must be thin." I agree with you, but you started by creating three new ministers and their apparatus. As much as I agree that in absolute terms it is not a large sum, it is a symbol. It's some kind of symbol, it's some kind of principle, just like Jakub Michálek said about the principle that he would switch windows here because there are old windows - he said it on TV, you can spin it - that therefore there is a leak of heat and we are consuming more energy here than would be worth. It is also a symbol, and it will certainly not save the state budget, just as Vice-President of the House said on the same programme - and I agree with him on this - that MEPs and politicians should not go first class on short trips abroad and that there will be some savings on foreign trips. It's not the absolute amount, either, but it's some kind of symbol. It's an amendment to the Service Act. I mean, I think it's depolitical, as you say somewhere else, but at the same time, as I have said here, you have a high number of political representatives, from among former Members, to be more precise, Members who have not succeeded at this moment. I was intrigued by "more efficient energy management in state buildings." Totally okay with that. However, I will remind you here again to see the contradiction here, the new corporate district proposed by Prime Minister Babiš - which has always triggered the bangal here, although less here than in Prague at the Mayor - where one of the reasons was that it is very inefficient in those historic buildings. It's very inefficient there, dealing with the energy, but it was criticized for it. Ten thousand flats a year, after all, the Prime Minister talked about it. I found somewhere in the association program that you'd like to build 40,000 flats, not ten. So I'm wondering if that's the result of some coalition agreement or why there's a contradiction. Also in the passage pension reform, it is an unsustainable state. I agree. I'm impressed that you're going to cut short the time to get pension rights, that you're actually going to soften things up. However, I feel that pension reform is about to take some crucial step towards the fact that the population in general is getting older, has little children, that is, for those generations to come, there will be no one to work anymore and there is a need to work with the mechanisms and tighten them up in some way. "We're gonna cut the time to get pension rights..." And then there's stuff that could have been done long ago, and we talked about it yesterday at the payroll freeze. A klouzavý mandate. It's been here before. That's how the Senate killed it. It could have been a long, long time ago. [[16.00 hours]] Control of Czech Television, Czech Radio by the SAO. It's also there, in the programming statement. But that's already been proposed here. Now I'd like to ask you two questions about things that I thought were, say, more spicy: "We're going to create an environment that promotes a healthy lifestyle." So I'm wondering what I'm supposed to imagine under this, if you're going to set an example in some healthy way of working, eating, sports, or if it's going to be some kind of prefield for, like, higher taxes on unhealthy foods and lower taxes on vegetables, fruit, or if anyone could explain to me what that means, "we're going to create an environment that promotes a healthy lifestyle." As well as "Green Deal is an opportunity for us." So I would like to know how this is reflected, because you are also saying, and before the elections you were very strong, that you will fight for our energy mix, which is in line with the atypical position of our small inland country without the sea, without the year-round sun and so on. So what does that mean, Green Deal is an opportunity for us? Now I'm going to make savings. You're saying that in the long run, the number of officials will decrease. So far, it looks like you've raised them. It reminded me, in one of Sir Humphrey Appleby's works in Sure, Prime Minister! He's recruited 500 officials, if you recall, who were tasked with saving the number of civil servants. So, as I understand it, you've recruited 74 government officials in relation to the new three ministers so you can find out where else you can lay off. At the same time, you say you don't want to raise taxes, which I call it, and I will support every reduction here, like I supported it in the last parliamentary term, and you know that. You don't want to cut where it's going to involve people, you said, which I'm wondering if it's possible to cut in the state budget without touching those people. I wonder, then, where would such a cut be, if anyone, perhaps the Minister of Finance, could describe such a cut to me? I can think of this formula that you will want to make tax collection more effective, to fight against the gray economy or tax evasion, but from what I have read in the programming statement, it is not even true. Maybe verbally yes, but you're going to want to cancel the EET, edit the control reports, so I'm wondering how you can make tax collection more effective, how specifically? Because before that, it was a question of how specifically, perhaps by introducing an EET or a control report - it also bothers me, but it just has some measurable effect. So I'm wondering what it is specifically to make tax collection more effective. And on that occasion, when I read it, I remembered that you came here last year with an amendment to savings of CZK 80 billion, so maybe it would be worth it to dust off your own amendment, and you have now minus CZK 80 billion, if that is what you meant. When you were in opposition, you wanted to cut 80 billion. Now that you're in the coalition, you can take it. If we look at consumer protection... [[He's drinking.]] Sorry, thank you for your tolerance. Consumer protection. I will quote: "We will evaluate the recently adopted execution adjustments, the impact of the institute's protected account and the administrative burden of employers. We will find a balanced solution respecting the assistance to responsible debtors and the rights of serious creditors." Thank you for that, that is precisely my term, by the way - "helping responsible debtors and serious creditors" I used 545 in several of my speeches when approving the press. "We will set the system so that the debtor is motivated to work and repay the debt. Debts are supposed to be paid, but it doesn't help anybody if debtors become life-long serfs. We're going to release the exact relevant data on the executions, and we're going to decide to stop the illegals. We'll shorten the insolvency proceedings for three years. We set the whole system so that the debtor is always motivated to work and pay off the debt." And that's actually from the consumer protection, execution, insolvency, everything, and for me, colleagues, it's so little, don't be mad at me. And that's where I learned today - so I had to make a note there, it's obvious that one can't prepare a speech in advance - because I read in the Hospodářské noviny today that the sentence "We're going to put an end to illegal executions and shorten the duration of insolvency proceedings" fell out and that the leaders of STAN Jan Farský and KDU Výborný pushed it back into that statement to get it back there. Now, we're at the part where I appreciate the activity of my colleague Farský, who, when I criticized him at the beginning, put those two sentences back in his step. So they would still be there if these two presidents hadn't intervened, so the sentences wouldn't be there. And, colleagues, it seems to me that this is weak. Where's a block of out-of-court stuff? Where are the things that concern the independent bodies, such as the financial arbiter, the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is now on the hook for the energy industry, because of the power failure, the Czech Telecommunications Office? There's absolutely nothing there about strengthening these organs. Likewise, by taking back the proposal on mass proceedings, it's the mass lawsuits, so it completely delayed it. This is a fundamental and fundamental thing. The Institute of Mass Supplies will help Czech consumers more than anything else. After all, it has 19 countries and we will still have to adopt it within the framework of the European directive. But you guys took it back, so you're gonna have to do the whole process again, and I'm gonna see what significant changes you're gonna make there, that it was worth putting it back and stretching it all out and extending it. I thought there'd be something in the programming statement about mass lawsuits, but there's really not a word in there. And yet you said that consumer protection - and that is the thing that really concerns everyone, really everyone - so that it will be there in more detail and that this is your priority. It's not! I'm sorry about this. In this I offer cooperation to the subcommittee, where the chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr Adamec, told me that there are only three of us in the subcommittee so far. That means, you, my colleagues, I'm going to ask you to sign up for this, because then, of course, the subject here, when it's media-interesting, which is, for example, the executions, the energosminds and the like, so any politician comments on it, but when it goes into the detail, then in the subcommittee, where it goes into the guts of things, there were five, six of us in the past period, and I ask you and I ask that you apply to the subcommittee, because we can help in this. But in the government's programming statement, there's no more detail. Otherwise, I agree that the impact of the institute's protected account - it is necessary to look at it, because not so many protected accounts are open. Here, I'm gonna sprinkle a little ash on my head to balance it a little bit, because I'm trying to measure all the same subway because the creation of a protected account is a little more complicated than it is to open up a debate about the graceful summer that will end on January 28. I wonder, by the way, how this government will cooperate with the opposition in these matters, because when it was reversed, the government coalition took into play and collaborated with the then opposition, typically with Marek the Výborný, did not try to overwhelm this place with force. So I'm curious, it's going to be a litmus piece of paper, if that political culture, how you're going to follow it, and if you really have it in you, or if you're just going to take advantage of the fact that it's 108, and you're not going to want to cooperate in these things. [[16.10 hours]] To also appreciate something there, when I criticized it, in that programming statement, I think it's an increase in the VAT registration limit to two million for me. I'm the one who's counting, as is the change in assessment from the medical assessment service. This will certainly be appreciated by people with disabilities. It's okay. I also found the phrase "proclient approach of the Financial Administration." I would like to ask the Minister of Finance what a proclient approach is. That is what I can imagine for the very things relating to consumer protection, in private companies, the proclient approach. What does it look like with the financial administration, when there's a proclient approach, what does one have to imagine under it? As well as "consensual resolution of parental conflicts." I think he's okay. From the double meters - and I've been talking about it here from the start - the double standard is also intersected by the functioning of this government by programming statements and staff. So I was intrigued by a few other things that I would go back to. As I said before, 74 officials were added to the Office of the Government, while 267 were removed during the previous government, crossed out. This means that it may seem outward - and I am constantly explaining it in television debates - that it has all swelled up in the past government about civil servants. I say it was about employees in regional education, employees in security structures, not officials. And here, specifically, there were 267 fewer officials at the Office of the Government. Now it's plus 74, but the media image looks like it swelled before, but now you're cutting it off. So will the fact that you will treat the opposition differently. I'd like to remind you of the relative representation of the House's leadership. Last time it was 3:3, now it's 5:1, maybe Friday 5:2, if the Vice-President is elected YES. I'm a little sorry that every time we get back to it, my colleagues always tell me when we say that we have a record number of Vice-Presidents in the House, not because of YES, but because there are five coalition parties. In order to satisfy all five subjects, you say yes to surrender the Vice-President. At that point, there would be an incredible situation that the club, which is 18 times smaller, would have the same representation in the House's leadership. Eighteen times smaller is the Pirate Club compared to the Yes Club. Well, that's not a proportional representation, so don't be mad at me. This is where the relative representation was always taken into account. Likewise, when we talk about it -- and I've already talked about it in the beginning -- how long, when you talk about it, whether talking for an hour is obstruction or not. We've seen this before in the election of Vice-Presidents or, in fact, the President of the House. Here I will remind you that at just one point in your election to the Czech Television Council, you took a total of 38 hours' pause, and that was fine. It's just not possible, it's not possible to see it this black and white that sometimes when it suits you, it's a real obstruction - which is when you take those overnight breaks - and you remember it well, I offered to come over to the club and listen to you, how you advise, when you invite me there overnight, and no one invited me - it's a really obstructive thing. But when you talk to the point here, you ask questions, specific questions to the ministers - I suppose they'll answer in some way, when other times, today is actually the first day - and I understand that's going to stretch out because you answer, we can respond to that. That's normal. But if someone doesn't answer, maybe it'll speed up an hour, maybe it won't. But this isn't obstruction, this isn't obstruction! So are some measures. I'm going back to the covide easily when it was promised here that PCR tests would return to the game and that there would be no mandatory vaccination. That's what the Minister said. Neither has returned to the game yet. If vaccination is mandatory, we don't know yet, the decision is postponed, PCR tests are still not recognized. Before that, the government was criticized, and now it's going on. Double standard for me. Sum of sum, ladies and gentlemen: you have been preparing to rule for four years, some of you even eight years. The result, don't be mad at me, doesn't answer for me, both in terms of staff - I said that here, typically with the Deputys and the expertise, competence - and in terms of readiness, professionalism, but also in terms of communication change. I have seen several press releases of this government and some ministers, there were allowed three questions and an end. And again, we have a typical double standard. When the previous government ever did this, it was disrespect for the work of journalists and the public. When this government does it, it's because it's busy. So, of course, there's a different way of looking at one thing, but I'm pointing it out this way, because I'm noticing it. You guys were talking about changing things, about doing things differently. Mostly when you accuse a coalition politician, a minister - or even during a social media debate, especially in that twitter bubble that they're watching, as they've been texting me - so when you don't know where you're going, you're going to say that we've done it, too. So you're actually copying what you criticized earlier, but that's not the change. I mean, you guys won the negative definition that it's gonna be a change. It wasn't about content. My previous speakers talked about it. This was not a conflict about whether the euro should be introduced here, raising taxes, reducing taxes. It wasn't a clash about whether we're gonna go down the progressive path of things, if there's gonna be a marriage here for the same sex couples. The content completely fell out of it, it was about change, it was about negative definition. The minute the change comes in, you say, "Well, you did it too, so did we, so can we. But that's not the change. Please don't be mad at me. And in conclusion, as I promised on social media, a tip like that when you're there looking for that national bird. In the chapter Environment, you write: "In cooperation with the Czech Society, we will support the national campaign that will select the Czech national bird." So I figured I'd help you out, so we'd check out one of the tasks in the programming statement. Please, it's not even a pigeon that kicks everything down, it's not even a magpie, like some people told me, it's not even a stork, like I'm recommended, or birds like an idiot who's already extinct, or a cub, or something like that. But I thought I'd offer you here -- and the resemblance with the name of one former politician is purely random -- I'd offer you a close-eared one. "Calous is a medium-sized species of owl from the family of pusty trees" - now I read it because I don't know it - "with a characteristic extended feather resembling an earbud, which gave it its name in many world languages." And now beware: "In the Czech Republic it is one of the most abundant and widespread owls ever. It is active at dusk and at night, in winter during the day it often gathers together in smaller groups." Now watch out: Kalous, Mr. Prime Minister - "in his diet, rodents appear most often, which makes him considered useful. " [[Laughs in the hall.]] Here we go. "But of course he eats other mammals, smaller species of birds and insects." But we're gonna get through this somehow. "He most often uses abandoned nests of raven birds, where he lays three to seven light eggs." I found Wikipedia, I'm not an expert, I'm not gonna make it out of myself. So much for my suggestion. You can check out one task. [[16.20 hours]] I thank you for your attention, and I wish that today's holiday of democracy will be as sophisticated as it is so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, good afternoon. I thank Mr Nacher for a short trip to ornithology, and I will now ask Mr Karel Havlíček to speak in the debate, and Mrs Jana Pastuchová is next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u42	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. I will stick to a lot of economic issues, and I will try to be very specific and pierce the most important things that I believe are neglected in the government's statement or the government's actions so far, or I would ask you to explain them here, if necessary. I am not going into detail, I am not going to take the floor, but I am convinced that the topics that I will open are really the ones that move not only the Czech Republic but also Europe today, and that it is absolutely necessary to discuss them all the more when I am a little confused about how the government has said so far. I'll start with Green Deal. I don't know if the government is supporting Green Deal or going against Green Deal. On the one hand, we are being criticized for taking on the political commitment of the Green Deal. Everyone knows that we would be the only country to refuse this, throughout the EU. And everyone knows that we have made Green Deal conditional on the fact that 55 percent will be recognised within Europe as a whole, not individual countries. I think it was quite a success. But there is a criticism that we have even allowed ourselves to do so politically. On the other hand, the first sentence in economic policy is that Green Deal is an opportunity, and then it is largely a celebration of Green Deal. So please tell us if Green Deal is, or Green Deal isn't. That's one thing. The second thing is that, as far as Green Deal is concerned, even if I admit it - and I can agree to this to a large extent - that, of course, it is also an opportunity, at least for investors who are in emission-free resources, but also for some new technologies and so on, we cannot ignore the fact that Green Deal is also a clear threat to a significant part of industry. This is simply reality, there is nothing to be done about it, and the government statement does not mention how this impact on the traditional industry, which employs more than one third of the workers in the Czech Republic, will be addressed. There's nothing there. With regard to innovation, as regards the communication that we want to have a smart, modern, effective state. If I translate it - I don't really want to catch up - yes, we're probably heading towards higher added value. This is finally what we have declared, for which we have created our strategy of the Czech Republic, a country for the future. The innovation strategy has been discussed with a number of actors, from science to the academic world, entrepreneurs, institutions, international environment. I would understand that this strategy will be taken and maybe it will change, the parameters will change there. I would understand that you are going to launch something, I would understand that some new indicators are going to be set up, but to abdicate that there is some coherent concept that we are going to do several times within the entire government statement, and that is greater competitiveness without telling us how we are going to achieve this competitiveness, that we are going to abdicate that we have some concept here that should move us in all the innovation rankings, whether into the top ten in the EU, where we have moved, among other things - at least to the gates of the first ten, we are in eleventh place - or into the global innovation index, to the top four-fifteen, where we have moved, if we wanted to go into the top twenty, I would understand all that. Today, when we look at it, we don't have a single indicator on how we're gonna do it. At one point I already thought it might not be so bad, because I had in my hand a government programming statement, if you remember, which was, whether targeted or not, leaked in the media, where it was actually mentioned, in my opinion good, that we would put a clear target of 2,5 per cent of gross domestic product in research by 2025 - correct in my opinion. This is exactly what follows the innovation strategy that we have set up in this way. I'm just saying that a few years ago it was 1.3 percent, and we made a commitment that by 2020, it would be 2 percent. In 2020, it was 1.99 percent, and we did it exactly. And I expected this trend to continue. However, the second day when the final version of the programming declaration came out, there was no mention of it. It's a mistake, and I don't know why we escape from holding - or holding - for a while, in my opinion, the right numbers. In general, the measurableness of all the ambitions that the programming declaration has in that declaratory form - which cannot be questioned in any way, because we want to strengthen competitiveness, creativity and growth, it is not possible to disagree on this - but if we want to strengthen it, we must say what we will strengthen it for. And it's not about any detail. I understand that this is a strategic document, that it is a strategic document and that we do not have to move in absolute details of each line, then I can imagine that it will be at individual resorts in some action groups and so on. But the fact that we don't even have the trend that we're going to go, what we want to get to, I think that's a big, big mistake in the whole statement in general. So if we want to aim for a higher added value, then we should tell each other which way we're going. I didn't find it myself except for the general declarations. As regards the promotion of entrepreneurship, yes: "We want to support modernisation." So that we do not want to support modernization - we will not go against it! "We want to support applied research into small and medium-sized enterprises" - we will definitely agree on this. But he's missing again, in what way. We started supporting businessmen, we created a business package, we didn't make a show out of it. But everything we promised the tradesmen, whether uniform efficiency dates, whether everything in one place, whether the establishment of the company in one single day, the legal person, the natural person, all this has been fulfilled. Why isn't there an ambition to show some of this? Why isn't there an ambition to show how we're going to go about small independent business? We created a program that looks like it's starting to work - Shop 21+. Speaking of support for small and medium-sized companies, which is, among other things, in every government statement since 1993, there's one question about how we're going to stand up for the support that we've been criticized for, and that's covido support. I'm sure you remember how we've been here for almost two years, month after month, I don't want to say directly assaulted, but we've been accused of giving more to businessmen, especially small and medium-sized companies, in the short term. Finally, we gave them CZK 350 billion of direct and indirect support, and we were subsequently criticized for letting go of the state's blood too much. But okay, that's politics. But when we prepared complete support for business and the final one, which was still here in the autumn of 2021, we agreed with all the associations, we agreed with representatives of the business segments that were most affected, and to a large extent more or less similar to that of spring 2021 and partly autumn 2020, so it is currently on ice. And I'd take that saying, "There'll be nothing." And it's similar to the energy support. We play to support, but in the finals we give almost nothing. So, if we say today, you're not getting anything for the fall. Yes, what the last government has prepared here may have been commendable, perhaps not, but you will receive no support. That, too, is a message. But at this point, entrepreneurs really don't know what to expect here. The aid is prepared, it has been clearly limited. We have been criticized for the immediate preparation of support if we cut back. And when we prepared it, but governments switched, which is just reality, a new government that criticized us for not giving, when we cut down, didn't do anything to trigger the programs, or at least to say, "There's nothing going to happen." So that is what I believe should be clarified in the order of the days. [[16.30 hours]] We're an industrial superpower, it's not a discovery. A third of people work in industry, and 10 percent of GDP is the automotive industry. More than 20 percent of our exports are made up of the automotive industry. There is no more term in the world in the automotive industry than electromobility. Let's look at the government's programming statement for electromobility: nothing, a clean zero. So as an industrialized country built on the automotive industry, where today and daily it's emotionally addressed, if there's going to be a shift in fossil fuel sales in 2030, or 2035, or 2040, if we're going to support this or that, there's no mention of electromobility. Yes, there are a number of proposals in the whole statement to examine the impact assessment. Let's examine, judge the impact, but let's show what we want to do about it. Energy policy, one of the most tilted topics of the day. Here I have to say, at least in the long run, we can agree. It is built in the context of the programming declaration in principle well, it is built on the path to a core-based emission-free resource based on renewable resources, and there is nothing greater to say about it. Finally, this is also due to how the state energy concept is prepared and is due to what we have been doing here over the last few years. I am glad that there is also mentioned within the core that the government, if not committed to this, is at least committed to preparing a timetable for building Temelín as we have prepared a timetable for building Dukovan. Two years ago, that was almost a forbidden word. Within two years, we prepared a financial model, an investment model, a supply model, passed the law, the notification began, a security assessment was completely prepared, and at that moment the new government received Dukovany as a project ready. Just one thing to run the tender. Among other things, it could have already been launched because we handed everything over so that it was enough to initiate only the files under the Ministry of the Interior, and to what you forced us to do, so we don't wait one day, so at this point it's been several weeks. But I believe it will be triggered in the next few days. In the same way, the new government should prepare the Temelín project. I've learned in part, and here you can expect our maximum support. You also know that they succeeded together - you should not accuse us of owning something, it was not only the credit of the Czech Republic, but we played an important role in it, France was the leader, followed by us and several other countries - that the core and gas, even under certain difficult conditions, but eventually recognised as sustainable resources. That means there's a ready way to build a core. But what we don't find in the programming statement is what everyone cares about in the short term. Right there is what's going to happen in a few years, but with all due respect, you won't be there anymore, but there isn't what's going to happen in a year, in six months, and what everyone is expecting today in terms of the effects of rising energy prices on the world markets. While it is true that we are discussing this here in the House and it is being discussed in all possible forums, I believe that the government's programming statement is such an important document that these priorities should simply be there. I can't imagine what else should be there right now other than how we're going to deal with the energy crisis. I don't mean from a long point of view, in the longer term, we agree on that, but please, let us read again what is in energy policy, and we have no mention of how we will address, for example, the impact of the energy crisis on businesses, on businessmen. There's nothing there. In my opinion, it's not right. Unfortunately, there is nothing in the sense of new technologies that everyone talks about as the basis of what we want to build the added value on. During our reign, we have prepared a complete strategy for artificial intelligence. In the world we gained quite a respect, whether at the level of research, at the level of applied projects. There is no word for artificial intelligence, although it is one of the few sectors where we have recently started to play truly European and possibly world primacy. How is it that we don't have one single mention of hydrogen? I cannot imagine that in modern times there will be a concept where we do not have a mention in an important government statement, as we will continue to do within the framework of a hydrogen strategy, which, among other things, we have also prepared. And we don't just have to look at the latest technologies, we can look at the raw materials. I don't know what's more important than lithium these days. Yes, there were a lot of emotions about it, but the project is ready. It is prepared to the extent that the ball is once again on the side of the state, as it was not at a certain time. It is prepared by creating a unique chain here, where lithium will be extracted, where lithium will be processed, and where the final product may also be produced. In my opinion, it is something that moves the current economic world. There's no mention of that! At least it would be worth saying whether it will continue to be in Czech hands or whether it will be expected to be privatized or sold again. Financing, I mean economic activities. We have prepared the National Recovery Plan, which cost us enormous efforts, CZK 180 billion. We have a National Development Fund, where billions of crowns could be activated for the benefit of our economy. We've prepared the National Development Bank. We created a National Investment Plan, but we know all that. But if I look at the programming statement, we won't find a word of it. So not only do we lack an innovation plan, but we also lack an investment plan. I don't know what else you should build an economy on in the next few years, no matter what government is here, but to promote innovation and support investment. If we want to achieve good results, we can't do it without these attributes. There's nothing there. At the very least, I expected that at least the path would show if more national financial institutions did not connect, whether it was the National Development Bank, together with EGAP, together with ČEP and so on. These are all things that I think could be a match. Plus, they're pre-prepared, a whole bunch of them. There's nothing there. But we know that we want to strengthen competitiveness, creativity and growth. Education, technical education. Again, you see that I choose really important topics, and it is not a month before someone opens up from the ranks of employers' unions to higher support for technical education. I believe we can agree on that. Why is there nothing about this in the programming declaration in the economic area, whether at primary school level, at secondary school level in terms of dual education? We don't have anything to do with it. It is a pity, because at least we have prepared the foundations for basic education in terms of the study area of man, technology. At the very least, we have prepared the foundations for the Dual Education Act. We've started some pilot projects. I'm sure that's what any businessman would be interested in. To say what I quite like there is the area of innovation in terms of start-ups and spin-offs. I think start-ups and spin-offs as new subjects are captured quite well there. There is an international dimension, it follows to a large extent what we had in the innovation strategy. I have a feeling there's an effort to scale, which means to evaluate the better from the worse. I think it's pretty well captured there. But on the other hand, there is not one single mention of traditional trades and traditional trades. And that's not something we should be underestimating at this point. There's nothing there for a master test, which is prepared, among other things. There is nothing in terms of how this area of business is supported. I could go on, but I don't want to hold up too long. As far as traffic is concerned, I'll leave most of it to my colleague Kolovratník. Nevertheless, I would mention just one more thing about economic activity. I don't mean public transport now, but about spending and building. In principle, it can be agreed on how it is designed within the meaning of 200 kilometres of new motorways, in the sense of the railway plan, in the sense of the drill plan. I dare say that's a reasonable and rational plan. Among other things, because the foundations are created for it. Without projects, without initial projects and pre-prepared projects, it would not be possible. [[16.40 hours]] It's worth mentioning one more thing. When we were taking over in 2014 - I wasn't there, but we were taking over traffic, and it fell here today, in those years it started on average 200 meters of new motorways. It was hard to start something in the following years, although there was a lot of criticism as to how it was not being initiated. Today, the Minister of Transport can boldly come forward with the opening of 200 kilometers of new motorways in the coming years. And I say that this is a realistic plan, because only in 2021 - only in 2021! - we started construction on 72 kilometers of new highways - 72 kilometers! So from this point of view, I'm of the opinion that it can be handled. The second thing is, if there's enough resources to do it, because one thing is to have the projects ready, the other thing is to have the budget ready. And that's what I miss in the programming statement, and again it's fear of numbers. The entire programming statement, as I perceive it, is built not only in my view in general, but with great fear to commit to any indicator, any number, any trend that would be measurable. And one thing was enough - to show the trend of growth in investment in transport infrastructure by 10 per cent a year. In my opinion, it should be somewhere around 10 percent, and we're debating whether 10 or 15 or 8. So, on the one hand, we want projects, on the other hand, a commitment to refinance them, I miss them there. But I believe that this will succeed, and in this there will be clear support from our side to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u43	I also thank you, Mr Růžička, and now I will ask for the speech of Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Mr Pavel Růžička will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the thinned bench of the government that will be asking for trust...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u45	Madam, I'll just add that all the ministers outside the O.R. have apologized to me for knowing where they are, which means they'll be back in the O.R. soon, it's not about...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u46	Mr President, I can't know, I'm sitting there on the bench.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u47	That's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u48	Yes, that's what you told me, he just told me. I must say, I really admire this government and its plans. If the government's programming statement here today obliges us to combine the utopia that we are talking about today and the reality that we face every day that it will fundamentally change the conditions in society - and I will focus here on health and social - and at the same time it will cut state budget spending, but it doesn't say where it will take it, then really, if I have a hat, I will shut it down. But we really can't afford to live in airlocks. When the lunch break was over, I was listening to reporters commenting on how things were going, and I came in late. I don't know who it was, I think they said that Prime Minister Fiala, through you, said one sentence: "The state should save on itself, not on people." The state is supposed to save on itself, not on people, so we've seen it from the beginning. Ministers can't fit in our benches, the political deputy may never be enough, and the apparatus involved will increase the state budget. We saw it yesterday when we passed two laws and the Prime Minister said that our government would be there for all citizens. Well, that's what we saw yesterday when we passed the law. It will not be there for all citizens because all citizens have been affected by the energy crisis. It has affected citizens who go to work regularly in the morning, earn money, and actually earn money by their taxes on people - as President Okamura said, through - inadaptable. And be careful, these are people who don't go to work long-term and can. So they're actually making money on their benefits, now they're getting nothing, and they're still making money on these doses that we added to them. When we think about everyone, we should really think about everyone. It doesn't apply here anymore. We all know that you are voting for the government's programming statement, celebrating your government's trust. But it will only be based on the strength, or now the number superiority in the House, it won't really be because your programming statement would be so great, but most importantly, it would be real. You promise what you can do to make things better, but I won't find anywhere there where you can find it. You're already figuring out where you're going to cut expenses of 80 billion from the state budget. I think you said here that it would be even more and that you have precise steps and chapters and all the lines counted and you can present it to us. We haven't seen it yet. I would also like the state to manage in a balanced manner, but unfortunately, the covido period does not wish us. Just as she signed on to our government's steps, believe me, she will sign on to yours's steps. But you, unlike us, who were really surprised by covid, no one in the world knew what they could do, and you're supposed to be counting on it now, and you're dealing with this issue on a few lines and you're not counting on it in individual chapters. So I don't know what to take out of it. I was quite surprised that Prime Minister Fiala, when he was talking about the resorts, only briefly said he could continue talking about health care here. I'd love to, but you told us to read it in your programming statement. You weren't here yesterday, Prime Minister. We've already received this recommendation from one of your members of the government, so we can read it all, but we don't want to read it, we want to hear it from you, and I think that this is the biggest problem of the covid, and that is what you should be doing most, so far it doesn't really feel like it. And when I read your program statement at a time when elective care is limited, when some patients are waiting for a scheduled surgery for a number of months and are still being postponed, you come up with the possibility that patients will be able to pay extra insurance for better care. In any way I would agree with a similar idea at a time other than covid, what kind of signal are you sending to the citizens now? Definitely worried there'll be some kind of two-stage health care. Who, logically, will be preferred in a medical facility? As I say, at another time, I'd like to talk about it, but now I consider it really, really outrageous. Now, at this time, we're supposed to be looking for ways to help all patients with health care without distinction. We are now in a situation where, because of the covid and the situation in the energy sector, scissors are increasingly opening up between those who have money and those who really have to consider their expenses carefully and rotate every crown. How do you tell people who are really dependent on social assistance from the state that there is little to pay for health insurance? Mothers of singles, seniors of the poverty line? I really can't agree with that. I do not like the government's statement to come up with the possibility of supplementary insurance without the guarantee that the quality of standard care will improve in the future. [[16.50 hours]] In the same way, I lack some assumption as to how the new government wants to address the lack of health professionals, increasing their social prestige. The present time shows that this is really necessary. Paramedics, and I can tell from my experience, they've been working at an absolutely incredible pace for two years, they're overloaded, they're losing motivation. At least our government thanked everyone by receiving benefits, rewards, and at every government meeting, I heard a thank you from the former Minister of Health, as well as from the Prime Minister, to all the paramedics. With all due respect, Minister Válek, I really didn't hear that from you. You know, part of the public... I don't know what you're laughing at. Maybe we laughed at your jokes in the last election season when you were ravishing them. It doesn't seem very funny to me right now when we're talking about health, Mr. Secretary. Part of the public is attacking paramedics, calling them names. I don't really see anything in your programming statement at all, but there's nothing you want to thank the paramedics, at least with some benefits. I don't see a re-evaluation of the education system. I'm saying with all due respect, I've known you four years from the Health Committee, and I think if we could count your speeches, it was the most of them. Now you're quiet, you're not answering any questions about what's gonna happen. You've just become such a silent minister here on the bench. Our last government wanted to thank everyone and appreciate them with higher salaries. The current government - I have to read it again: "The state is supposed to save on itself, not on people," another thing - cuts off this increase without meaning to reduce the deficit. And she forgot about some groups, such as health care workers. I see this as a complete display of disrespect for these people who work like all health professionals seven days a week. Now there's another wave waiting for them, and they're really telling us that you've completely blown them off. What I welcome is the government's declaration of greater focus on prevention. I guess we all do. We are all aware of its necessity and that better preventive care is an undisputed benefit for society, health care, but also for the state budget in the long run. In my statement, however, I again lack the idea of how to achieve this. Of course, there is, for example, a form of relief from employers and the like, but that is only one part of the way. There is absolutely no link with the health market situation, where there is no available health care in some regions, dentists, pediatricians. And I think that's where we need to focus. At the same time, I lack greater support for spinal hospitals in individual regions. In the statement there is almost no space or area of development of specialized centres, almost forgotten the development of medicine, the development of treatment methods and medications and care oncological, as President Babiš said here. On the contrary, I fear the opening up of the path to privatising health care and the worsening of universal health care. I would also welcome more specific proposals in the field of health digitization. During our reign, we introduced eRecipe, eIncompetent. These two instruments proved to be very helpful to citizens, but also to health workers, just at the time of the trial. We all realize how much digitization is needed for health care. But as I say, I miss any more specific visions. I never thought I'd say this, but I'm gonna say it today. Personally, I am truly sorry that I do not see Markéta Pekarová Adamová or Olga Richterová as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs behind me in government benches. I have often disagreed with them in the past period, on a number of things we disagreed, but I certainly cannot and I do not wish to deny them a genuine interest in social policy, that they have been well oriented and devoted to social laws. Today, the government bench was traded for a command post, and it's a shame. What happened to one of the first steps of the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs? Appeal of the Director of the Forests of the Czech Republic. From my point of view, he preferred the Ministry of Agriculture, which he had been preparing for in the long term and on which he sat only temporarily before the resort, which he was temporarily entrusted with. In addition, at a time when it is really necessary to solve the current problems caused by covid and the situation in the energy sector. That's probably the first signal it's gonna work. So I'm even, and I'm also on Facebook, but for eight years I've been watching you, I see you there on a tractor and in agriculture, and I understand that you really understand. Really, I can't... Really, I didn't meet you on the Social Committee, and that's my third term here. [[The minister answers off the microphone.]] Okay, okay. I'm flattering, as a family, your personal interest, but the tractor in your house suits me more. [[Fun and a little applause in the hall.]] Our government expected an increase of CZK 1,400 in social services. The minister of contemporary Jurečka agreed to shorten in half, even in direct care. And that's your incompetence to me. Maybe go check out the social services that work there. These are the auxiliary forces that we really can't be in those social services without. So you just took it away from them, they'll sort it out. We've always done it as paramedics. Servant staff, without whom they really do not do their stay facilities, are handicapped facilities, for seniors, get nothing. At the same time, however, the government writes in its programming statement that it will ensure fair remuneration for social and social workers. Well, I don't know. It's on your statement, but you're taking it away from them. I don't know, so I guess I... Moreover, I learn that a number of facilities have to reduce care due to rising costs, for example, for example, there is no money left for snacks for clients. I'm talking about senior homes. I proposed a solution to this problem in the last parliamentary term before the elections in the House. You all voted yes, all of you. It was before the election, of course! But the votes of the current government coalition failed in the Senate after the election. You can say that we were with the government and we had the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. We didn't have him as the YES movement. Social democracy had it, and believe that the last Prime Minister, too, gave the Minister the task of changing Decree 505. Unfortunately, this has not happened and we have therefore said that we, as Members of Parliament, will do so by a parliamentary proposal. You approved it, the Senate dropped it, it's nothing. I'm gonna look forward to it when you change it, and I believe you're gonna do it really, really soon, and you're gonna approve the amendment of the relevant decree. [[17,00 hours]] In a number of social matters, I'm sure I'll agree with the government's statement. It will certainly be an obligation to submit a pension reform that we have been waiting for for a really long time, we really need it. It is certainly the support of domestic carers, in general a social welfare system, so that people can really stay in our home environment for as long as possible. Connectivity of social care, emphasis on regionality. Change in the system of payment of benefits, greater addressability, support for families. Well, we also failed for the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, so at the last minute, we, together with colleagues from the SPD, submitted a law on material distress. Unfortunately, it didn't work out. In your government statement, we read everything again, but in a completely unspecific form. That we are the opposition now, you are the coalition, I think that it is okay and that we feel that way, but I fear that the social area will, on many points, be the reason for the conflict of opinion between the parties of the current coalition, that it will be very difficult for them to find intersections. I am very concerned that, for example, the approach to the revision of social benefits will be very different from the perspective of the ODS and from the point of view of the pirát. We've seen that in the last term. But maybe by the fact that there are only four pirát, they'll rise to it and vote together. Minister Jurečka will be some kind of mediator, and now, frankly, I don't envy this position. As I say: I would probably sign a government statement in the field of social policy, but it is so vague and general that I don't even know what to say to him specifically. I said something here, I didn't notice any idea of any more specific steps anywhere. Unfortunately, I didn't notice the appearance of Minister Jurečka, who probably doesn't like it, and he's already gone. So I'm going to focus on what I really miss about this government's programming statement. The most basic: Where are you going to get it? It's like you want to reconstruct and drive upstairs the house you live in. You don't have any money, you don't want to take a mortgage, and you don't even know how you're going to live during the reconstruction. With pension reform, I lack information on how you want to approach it. Will you follow up on the work of the Board of Pensions? Can people count on the retirement age not to increase? Will they be able to calculate somewhere how much pension they can expect? Will those who don't save on their own pension because they just don't have enough of what, the amount they get once as a claim? What relief will workers have? I simply miss the individual points of the particular idea that I think the Minister should have. I think he might have it, but by just not getting off today, we're actually asking questions that they might have prepared, and I believe that, because they've been telling us all along, when they take over the government, that they have all the solutions ready. All of them. And this way, I could go on to the next points. Unclearness in employment policy, state cooperation, local authorities in relation to socially needed, reform of social benefits. And I hope that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs at some meeting of the Social Policy Committee will be more specific so that we have something to discuss. And now, let me say, even though it has nothing to do with the government's programming statement, I actually have to express myself to the environment. I'm from the Liberec Region, we have a Turów mine there. I don't see any mention of it in the government's programming statement. It's all stopped. Now I will learn that one of our Liberec MPs - there are really few of us there, there are eight of us, we are the second smallest region - the one who drove his Velorex all over the country and promised citizens of the Liberec Region how they will solve everything, so we will know that before the elections - and that is not from mine, but today I read Mr Kalousek, who reprimanded him a little for it, said: Honza, this is not what I taught you, I think it is written - so for eight months he will fly away. I don't know if he's gonna take the Velorex when he says he's gonna fly in if he needs to, but I'm really sorry. And you know why? Because I've known Mr Farský for a long time, he really stood here and fought for transparency, for justice, as everyone says, it was Mr čistý. I wish him, of course, as a Honza Farský citizen, what he did, but I do not understand that he is not even considering taking up a parliamentary mandate. There will be seven of us in Liberec County. And when I was talking to Mr Farský in the last parliamentary term, through you, about what and how and if he had any ambitions, I really thought he would become a minister. And I kept thinking about why he wouldn't be sitting in those rows. Well, now I know. Because he already knew he wasn't even gonna be here! And I am sorry for the Liberec Region, because I think that Members of individual regions are erasing some party fights and working for the region. And I was like, okay, we're gonna have a minister from our county, and he's gonna help us out there. We will not, we will even have one less MP in the Liberec Region. It is true that we have two MPs for STAN, because the pirát from the Velorex did not get here, they were circled, and the MP from the last parliamentary term was no longer on this candidate. So I guess... they've always had one, so I guess the one that's left here can handle it. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry about being a Member of the Liberec Region. I am sorry that there is absolutely no attention to the Turów mine, and I am sorry that Mr Farský, who already knew in March that he would not be here, has been circling his region with velorex and promised what he would do, will not do. Of course, I wish the new government to succeed so that we can all be healthy, but he's after the fight every general. And I look forward to having an extraordinary meeting every month and grilling the Minister of Health here like you did in our government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u49	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Pavel Růžička will now appear and Mr Lubomír Metnar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are standing before the new government and it would be tacky to say that everything in the programming declaration is completely wrong. That would make us look as untrustworthy as the opposition in the last parliamentary term and the voters would laugh at us. The new coalition government has absolutely incredible comfort. In 2014, after directly Molotovův's cocktail Parkanová, Barták, Vondra, weekly Minister Peake, Nečas and other predecessors, we took over the defence resort, which had the reputation of the most terrifying portfolio. There was a joke that the Secretary of Defense was in prison, or at least in custody, not with one foot, but with both. Minister Stropnický, Karla Šlechtová, Lubomír Metnar for the ANO movement had enough to get past this terrible past and put the resort together. We've done one of the fastest developing resorts in the media by pushing and sub-funded ministries that got into the media just in some corruption case, such as Pandur or CASA. We were able to stabilize the structure of both the Ministry and the military and start, and mainly to complete major strategic projects. I do not refer to the subject as a theorist who came from somewhere from a civilian vacuum and is touching himself, but here I am acting as an MP and at the same time as a war veteran who has undergone several foreign missions. In the army, as soldiers, we met every day not only with the fact that we had outdated technology or means of communication compared to advanced alliance partners. But what was much worse was that we often didn't even have basic equipment and we were looking for it for our money after the army stores, which were better stocked than the military warehouses, and in missions we ran around the PXs, where the heart of every soldier turned over modern equipment. For those who are not kissed by the army, PX is a foreign trade that sets up foreign armies in place of their operation. However, the situation has improved considerably over recent years. The army has new materials and warehouses are filled with functional equipment. Of course, we still have a lot to catch up on, but the current situation is incomparable with the robbed and unworking resort of the ODS governments and ministers. I therefore support the planned increase in finance for our defence. After all, it was the ANO movement that pumped over half a trillion crowns into the army and its files under our defense and finance ministers. We promised to reach 1.4 percent of GDP by the end of the parliamentary term, and we also fulfilled that. It was not only about the Committee on Defence but also about the courage of our governments and the good governance of our ministers. We all watch through the media the purchase of Israeli rocket systems, radars, Caesar guns or Bell helicopters. And we take for granted that the Czech vehicles Tatra and Titus are purchased. Of course, we must not forget the purchases of artillery ammunition and ammunition, also from Czech companies. But what is less obvious is the wage growth of soldiers, and thus the attractiveness of their profession, which has led to ambitious recruitment goals. Fixed background of real estate infrastructure in the crews, renovated and built new premises for training - all this is reflected in the quality of preparation and training. Perhaps these expenses do not meet the headlines of the newspaper, but the awards from international exercises show that we have gone the right way. And all this was done without any scandals. But let's get back to the programming statement. Actually, there's not much to comment on, because the document is pretty empty. It offers no solutions, no recipes. The item on the program statement is written in foxes, so we don't really know what's behind it. Promises are indeterminate, immeasurable, difficult to evaluate. How am I supposed to explain what it means to pursue recruitment goals by taking money from soldiers? Or that we want to intervene in the basic strategic documents for our defence, which have been approved on the basis of consensus on the direction and development of our defence capabilities and policies? I look forward to proposals to make the acquisition process more effective and to amend the Public Procurement Act. On the contrary, I hope you will not bury shopping with unprofessional interventions. All major transactions are already being carried out using exceptions or negotiated procedures that are specifically regulated in the law for the military. I wish you luck so that, Madam Secretary, you will take the General Staff, because the motto "we know what we want, and we want the best" is not always appropriate. In business, the expression efficiency and efficiency is used, transferred to the world of acquisitions - buy the right things and buy them correctly. I hope that's true for the ODS. I would very briefly comment on what Mr Okamura said about the BVP, because I cannot do it. He said it wasn't true. ano, Mr. Vích is a former professional soldier, it's a good thing he's at the SPD club. We have three professional soldiers in our club. To swim the BVP -- well, that's the thing about the Warsaw Treaty, when we needed everything to swim. It's completely useless today. Foreign military academy, that's where they learn something completely different. If the water barrier is, then the water barrier simply bypasses or bypasses, because much more important is the protection of human lives, so it's much better when the beeper is well armored and the crew is protected than the fact that it can sail on the Elbe. That's absolute stupidity that's due somewhere in the '60s. Infrastructure -- well, clearly, the current T-72 tank used by our army has -- I don't know -- 50 tons. So there's not much difference. I wouldn't have a problem with that either. I'm sorry, but I had to comment. Besides, speaking of BVPs, the secretary was on the 7th mechanized brigade. I strongly hope that the acquisition process with BVP will somehow crack as soon as possible so that we know clearly whether or not the bee-pee is bought or bought. Of course, if it hadn't been bought, we all know that at this price, probably - or without an increase in price - the acquisition wouldn't have been done. So in this very important acquisition for the military, I also wish her luck so she'd have a lucky hand to choose from. Then Minister Metnar will speak here in a moment, so I guess he'll comment. I'm a simple MP, so I don't see that far into the Ministry's structure, but thank you for your advice. When I read the programming statement, I don't know why you forgot about our allies from Central Europe - Poland, Hungary, Slovakia or Austria. Although I understand it: it frowns on them in Brussels, so our Brussels coalition turns its back on them. I don't think it's right. [[17.20 hours]] What I must appreciate, on the contrary, is taking over our policy to support the Czech defence industry. It turns out that in times of crisis it is necessary to have supplies and production capacities in our territory. It is necessary to have educated, practically trained employees who deal with military materials, equipment, ammunition and repairs every day. In a crisis, we will not produce a new industrial capacity overnight. The support of Czech companies and Czech employees, together with the professional army, proves to be the only way to defend our country. In this context, it is also necessary to point out the surviving system of military state-owned enterprises under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. It is strange that the right-wing government's programming statement absents this. I would also like to comment on the fact that the new government has reduced wage growth, among other things, to professional soldiers. Soldiers and soldiers certainly deserve wage growth, not only because of how much the army helps during the pandemic of the covid. Everyday preparation, training, ant work to ensure our common security is extremely valuable. Our proposed wage growth was to cover at least part of inflation. Now the soldiers won't even have it in real life, and in real life they'll take less. I'm just terrified that someone from your government shouldn't come up with a similar proposal that Miroslav Kalousek had when the ODS ruled to tax their debts. I hope this stupidity isn't on your agenda. I also take it as a slap to soldiers that you installed your advisor Šulc as a political deputy at the cost of a real conflict of interest and coherence with the companies Aerospace devices Prague and Robot Scientific, which deliver equipment to the army, for example, the drones for 10 million, and in the outlook the company Aerospace Instruments Prague intends to report to light attack vehicles. If our Secretary of Defense had done this in the past, you would immediately convene a defence committee as chairman and go make a magnificent statement about how corrupt our movement is - a double standard. Of course, as Secretary of State, you're defending this conflict of interest. Yes, supposedly, Mr. Deputy He sold this company. I don't know who he sold it to, maybe he sold it to a partner, Mr. Sauer, who owns the Prague Aviation Instruments. And actually, it looks like the wolf ate and the goat stayed whole. And what's surprising? Where is the anti-corruption fighter Jakub Michálek? He's quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u51	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I will ask my colleague, colleagues on the right-hand side of the hall to keep it down so that you understand what you're saying. In case you need to discuss, please go to the lobby. Please continue, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u52	Thank you. So where is the anti-corruption fighter Jakub Michálek, who is silent? Well, of course he's quiet because he's happy that the pirát for losers in elections, such as Mr. Lipavský, Kolářík, Třešňák, Profant, have won a hot spot at the ministries, so they can clean up other pirát who didn't get their parliamentary mandate. We're growing in the state administration with a geometrical line, so it's a pretty great care facility. I am also sorry that there is a draft under the authority of the Ministry of Defence and other professional positions that have absolutely nothing to do with politics. It will now prove how the service law works in practice, unless the Secretary of State Vančura bends it. So far, all I can see are shoppers for advisors, friends, and friendly editors. I am very curious to see if apolitical continuity will be ensured as it should be. Madam Secretary, you're taking over a functioning resort that's on a growing trajectory. I wish you success in further action, because the security and defence of the Czech Republic should be apolitical. But the first days of government do not convince me that the government coalition knows what to do or perhaps has a vision. Unfortunately, we only hear empty phrases and insults from surrounding statesmen as subordinates to the Foreign Minister, but also from the President of the House. It's probably the new political culture. As opposition, we will monitor your actions closely, control, comment. We are not going to let the parties from your coalition decompose again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I will now ask that Mr Lubomír Metnar speak properly and prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I am pleased that the new government has taken an example from the work of the ANO movement, which has set a new course at the Ministry of Defence. But there are areas where I disagree with the new government. I believe that the state should act in a transparent and predictable manner in particular. Before I comment on the Government's programming statement, I will address the Department of Defence. There are some things I can't really say. During the reign of the ANO movement, the modernization and purchase of new equipment and equipment has taken on a high pace that has never been here in the past. After a period of cuts in the defence budget, we finally started investing massively in our defenses. Since my arrival at the Ministry of Defence, more than 43,000 contracts for CZK 150 billion have been concluded across the resort. As a result, the soldiers will receive modern techniques, equipment that they really need. Let me remind you of other important contracts. These are new handguns from the Czech Armory, multipurpose helicopters, MADR radars, CASA transport aircraft, small-scale ammunition, portable rocket assemblies and a number of other techniques. Increased attention was also paid to the removal of the long-term neglect of immovable property by increasing the investment construction of expenditure on repair and maintenance. Since 2018, there has been a significant increase in investment funds in the area of real estate infrastructure and in 2020 the process of gradual neglect has been halted. The concept of development and maintenance of real estate infrastructure of the resort was developed by 2035 and a volume and stopping study for building development of eleven priority crews of the Army of the Czech Republic. The total number of investment actions carried out over the reference period is more than 1,700. The investment events focused mainly on the extensive reconstruction and modernisation of the elements of real estate infrastructure and the construction of new buildings in accordance with the aforementioned concept as well as the concept of the construction of the Army of the Czech Republic. For the operation of the Army of the Czech Republic and security supplies are key state enterprises and organisations of the Ministry of Defence. In recent years, the Ministry of Defence has made the operation and use of state-owned enterprises established by the Ministry substantially more effective. State-owned enterprises have been stabilized both economically and in a staffed manner. Despite the crisis caused by the coronavirus and pandemic, clear strategies have been adopted to ensure their effective functioning. A few years ago, state-owned companies faced existential problems and fought cash flow, and today the staff's salary increases are on the table. [[17.30 hours]] In the case of Military Forests and Goods, due to effective crisis management, there was a successful management of crust sludge, with the state-owned company maintaining a positive economic result without the use of reserves. A clear strategy has been adopted to ensure the efficient functioning of state-owned enterprises through specific and measurable objectives which have fixed deadlines and pre-defined responsible persons for carrying out these tasks. Large investments in infrastructure, especially in military hospitals in the order of billions of crowns, are important for contribution organisations. The Ministry of Defence organisations have taken intensive advantage of funds from European funds that have avoided the resort in the past. Military hospitals have played and still play an important role in the fight against the pandemic of coronavirus, both in treatment and testing, and in particular vaccination. The Central Military Hospital has ensured the creation and operation of a successful National Vaccine Center. Under the rule of the ANO movement, support for domestic industry was a priority. Military orders bring work and money to the Čech, which is why 97 percent of the contracts were concluded with Czech suppliers. During my work in the resort, more than 42 000 contracts were concluded with Czech entities for almost 94 billion, including 526 contracts for approximately 24 billion with state-owned enterprises, which are set up by the Ministry of Defence. If something is not produced in our country, like MADR radars, helicopters and other technology, and the supplier was from abroad, the Ministry of Defence took at least 30% of the share of the Czech industry. I will give two examples: the purchase of Caesar, where our companies will participate in 40 percent, and the SPYDER missile system, where Czech companies will participate 38 percent. Defence investments are positively reflected in GDP growth, tax collection and employment. In the spring of last year, the Agency for Intergovernmental Defence Cooperation was established under the abbreviation AMOS, which aims to promote the sale of military material at intergovernmental level. Czech companies have been calling for similar support for many years. Only seven countries in the world, now the Czech Republic, have a tool for intergovernmental trade in military material. At the same time, this support is already reaping fruit. Our government has approved a treaty with North Macedonia to repair military helicopters. In the area of support for domestic industry, export support is crucial because the Czech defence industry depends on exports of more than 90 percent and success abroad also allows companies to invest more in the development of their capacities in the Czech Republic. During the reign of the ANO movement, an updated strategy for arming and supporting the development of the Czech defence industry has been approved, which determines the direction in the area of support for the defence industry newly until 2030. Support for defence research, development and innovation is also closely linked to the support of domestic industry. In this area, the Department of Defence is a stable provider of funds for defence industry entities, academics and research organisations. As far as defence foreign policy is concerned, between 2014 and 2021 the Army of the Czech Republic successfully participated in NATO, the European Union and the United Nations operations. In Mali, in cooperation with France and other European allies, we are involved in the training of local armed forces and the fight against terrorism within the Takub task force, where we joined as one of the first European countries. From June 2020 to January 2021 The Czech Republic successfully commanded the EUTM mission, at the time of the renewal of the operation of the mission after the first wave of covid and after the military coup in August 2020. In 2021, in a difficult situation by the end of June, we managed flawlessly to withdraw soldiers from Afghanistan. In a completely chaotic situation, the evacuation of the representative office and Afghan collaborators from Kabul to the Czech Republic was perfectly managed in August 2021. In time, a high-quality preparation for the Presidency of the EU Council was launched in the second half of this year. In 2020, a new long-term vision of V4 defence cooperation was approved during the Czech Presidency of the V4 countries in order to strengthen the role of the V4 countries in NATO and the EU. At the beginning of 2021, the joint purchase of training ammunition by NATO NSPA, initiated and led by the Czech Republic, was successfully completed. In order to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic, it is important to ensure the recruitment of soldiers. By the end of 2021, the Department of Defence had nearly 27,000 professional soldiers. The increasing interest in service in the military reflects fundamental changes in the remuneration system and the stabilization of the salary assessment of soldiers at a level consistent with the labour market. The average salary of professional soldiers increased from 26,000 in 2014 to over 40,000 in 2021. In 2015 we submitted and put into practice major changes in the Act on Occupational Soldiers and in 2016 a completely new regulation of the service of soldiers in active reserve. The number of soldiers in active reserve has also increased. Since 2018, the number of soldiers active backups has increased by an average of 10 percent each year, and today we have more than 3,500. There has been a return of an effective three-stage way of command and control of the Army of the Czech Republic, as is common in NATO armies, that is to say strategic stage, operational stage, tactical stage. In this covid time, I must once again mention how the military is involved in the fight against pandemics. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the army has been helping everywhere it needs to be. People feel that, and it has strengthened her credibility even more. In September 2020, more than 75 percent of our citizens trusted the Army of the Czech Republic, which has been the most since the start of surveillance since 1994. In the first and second waves the army helped transport and distribute medical aids, 9,000 soldiers were deployed to guard the state border. Without soldiers, there would be no Smart Quarantine, more than 2,000 soldiers twice helped organize the election. For several months, soldiers and members of active backups have maintained the O2 Universum National Vaccine Center, in which more than 680,000 doses of vaccine have been vaccinated. A field backup medical facility was built in the Exhibition Centre with a capacity of 500 beds. The deployment in hospitals and social homes in a total of 163 social and health facilities helped more than 5,000 soldiers. In total, more than 25 000 soldiers have been replaced from the start in the fight against pandemics. The army also immediately responded after a tornado in South Moravia and sent their specialists, mainly engineers, as well as psychologists, doctors and military police officers. Nearly 1,200 soldiers helped, but also countless volunteers from active backups. Finally, I would like to comment on the actions of the new government and its programming declaration. We will certainly agree on an increase in defense spending, but we will not agree on the rate of growth and the form of collateral. This would be a jump increase of 50 billion or more by 2025. I haven't heard where the government wants to take it so far. The jumping increase in defence spending of at least 2 percent of GDP alone does not guarantee their effective use, nor does it guarantee the strengthening of the State's defence capacity. If there is a real intention for a jump increase in 2025 at such a level, the Ministry of Defence must also be prepared for this. That means increase personnel. This is directly contrary to the declaration that the new government wants to reduce the number of officials. [[17.40 hours]] The second argument against the law is the direct binding nature of such a step. We do not know at what level the Czech economy will be in 2025. From the perspective of the ongoing economic crisis, the development of which cannot be predicted well enough, even the regulatoryly treated establishment of GDP defence spending cannot be regarded as an element that fully stabilises the defence budget. On the contrary, year-on-year fluctuations in GDP achieved can be expected, which will consequently waver GDP spending budgets. Okay, but your statement about the big deficit and saving $80 billion doesn't make sense to me after that. Wouldn't the Ministry of Defence and the Army deserve clear proposals on how they'll be funded? From the last steps of the government, it is clear that it wants to limit citizens, reduce their comfort, for example by reducing fare discounts, and above all by smiling salary increases from the original, our government approved by CZK 1,400 only by CZK 700. In addition, de facto in three years to put 2% of GDP in the budget. This salary increase of CZK 700 is the motivation for soldiers and the increase in recruitment targets? Is this how you thank the soldiers for their help and extraordinary commitment? What do I hear from the soldiers on your 700 crowns? A mockery, nothing but this. In conclusion, let me send a message to the soldiers: Soldiers, do not be disgusted by these steps, thank you again for your service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Metnar, and Mr Žáček, with a point of fact, is reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u56	Thank you for the floor. Of course he won't give it to me. Today is such a specific genre and it is probably necessary to respond to some things, albeit in general. For someone it may be - and it must be said now, and today, tonight will certainly be a long night, we will hear it here even more times - can also be a lie, false or misinformation working tool. I would urge us to use it when it is necessary from some mouths, as little as possible. Politics, and that's how I perceive it, and probably not just me, should be a battle of ideas. So far, from many performances, it looks like it's a personal account deal. I'd try to limit it again. If you already need to attack directly, whether on the members of the government or on us or on some of our former colleagues, let us keep it on the committees, let us keep it on the subcommittees. That's where it can happen. Here, in public before the nation, it's mean and pathetic. I would also say, in general, on a general level, I think this belongs here, that the Defence Committee has often had to force the resort to some things, its leadership, or it is not true that there is some great discount, or it is not necessary to bring down the committee's activities. And it's across, and it was across the board when we agreed, and it was necessary, at the request of our colleagues at YES, to do something. And that is why some of the attacks that have been said here, for example, against the Secretary of Defense, are not entirely appropriate, and I think it is necessary to remind you that it was simply different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, please, the duly registered Member... Mr. Metnar has a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just don't know that there's an address thing. This was a general assessment of the situation. I took it upon myself, I guess it wasn't coming to me as a foreman. But for me in that speech, it was a general assessment and my opinion and a summary of my experience during the time I was Secretary of Defense. So I do not understand, through the President, Mr Member, why this followed my speech, but well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u59	Thank you very much, and now Mrs Válková, who has already duly signed up, will be prepared by Mr Kolovratník. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to speak in such a way that, indeed, in this spirit, as Mr Žáček's factual comment has now been made, the factual remark to me does not follow through. I have no intention of doing so, either, because I think the negotiations should be very constructive, and we are certainly trying to do so. So, Prime Minister, dear government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I stand here in the position of a double roll. First, I will speak as practically your government agent, because, as you know, the government agent has only one boss, and that is always the Prime Minister, unless he delegate this authority to the Minister, and I want to thank the currently absent former Prime Minister, my Prime Minister, Mr. Andrea Babiš, for allowing me to pass on the human rights agenda calmly, I did not have to immediately, quickly along with the resignation of the government, as I offered, end, but wait, and to Mr. existing Prime Minister Petr Fial for really carefully seeking my successor or successor. I mean, the government of Andrej Babiš, which entrusted me with this agenda almost three years ago, has moved a lot of the things that were really quite neglected forward. At the same time, because I want to be constructive, I want to draw your attention to what needs to be done in this area, what needs to be continued on, and there is no better place than this speaking counter, where some activities can be commended, some activities may be critical and some activities remain open to the future. And she's the one who's gonna judge whether it was a good move or not. First of all, I would like to say that any proxy or Human Rights Commissioner... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm just gonna ask not to scream like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u61	Yes. A serious colleague, colleagues, has crossed the line that is bearable. I ask all those who wish to attend to something other than listening to the performer, in this case, Madam Member, to go to the foyer. Thank you very much. Madam, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u62	Thank you very much. I am going to pick up here, and I want to say that the Human Rights Commissioner or the Human Rights Commissioner is not at all easy, and that is something that both members of the Government of Andrej Babiš and the Prime Minister could talk about, that I often annoyed them because I criticized some of the steps that were made by human rights optics, and they either went along or did not come forward, or they moved the issue forward, which in the vast majority of cases happened, or they just left it, and I'm going to point out what was on your desk. So the very first thing I would like to mention is that all six of these major areas have been activated, and in all these six major areas, this means protecting the rights of disabled or disabled people, the area of the Roma minority's participation strategy in our society, gender equality, national minorities, which, especially at the time of the covid needed support and assistance, and of course, I must not forget the Council of the Government for non-state nonprofit organizations and my constant efforts to improve the image of nonprofits in society, which, of course, showed clearly that without them we would not have dealt with the really well as we dealt with it. [[17.50 hours]] I should certainly not forget the area covered by the Human Rights Council in general, which has many subcommittees and committees and working groups, and I will mention only those here that you will certainly hear about in other contexts: the Committee on Fundamental Rights and Prevention of Discrimination, the Committee on Anti-Torture and Inhuman Treatment. By the way, this committee, and I will talk about it in the context - I do not see Mr... and I see the Minister of Justice - will meet with the Justice Department tomorrow and deal with a situation in prison where there are cases - in some cases - of torture, inhuman treatment. We know there are cases that have aroused media attention. Unfortunately, I have to confirm that, for example, seven overseers have already been charged in Light above Sazavo. The court is also taking place with overseers in Rhineovice, there is even a court. There's another case under investigation in Pardubice. So this is about systemic errors and, of course, the Justice Department - and then I will comment on that, and on the programming statement at this point, I have to say, hat down - prison, I understand, I think, pretty well, and criminal law, too, so, Prime Minister and Government, that has succeeded in this area. There I think that the tasks are really clear, concrete, controllable, and I do not envy the Minister. Many of those tasks - I am turning away - which I have begun and failed to complete, such as the amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act, the increase in the liability of prosecutors, I could continue. It's on page 50 and page 51, I believe. I would say that, for example, the electronic monitoring, the bracelets I chose, which my successor Pelikán then completed, and the Israeli company seemed very reliable, it turned out that it was not. It's not really any minister's fault - it always shows up later. But now it's up to you to choose the replacement supplier to last us out. Because those are the perspectives, and there's a huge amount of work in the prison area ahead of you. But you have drawn - unlike the criticism that will also be on my side, but not in the Justice Department - you have drawn a lot of well-controlled tasks. So I will look forward to it, and not just for sure I, that, for example, Restorative Justice - I wrote about it already in 1990 - will be a contribution if not a dominant, at least a full attribute of criminal justice. That means a settlement between the perpetrator and the victim, I'm not doing a criminal justice lecture here right now. The minister wrote it well. It's specific, but it'll be well controlled, too. There is always a disadvantage that general phrases are controlled worse. I'm going back to the human rights agenda. It has succeeded in adopting strategic documents over the three years, to which many funds are linked not only from the European Union, but also counts that certain contributions and subsidies will be provided from the state budget. I will now read you what the documents are, because the adoption and approval of the strategy is one thing, the concrete indicators and the adoption of specific measures the second and third things are control, and it is already up to you, and hence the release of the relevant resources if they do not come from EU funds - some are going. It is a National Plan to promote equal opportunities for disabled people for the years 2021 to 2025. In this respect, I think it will not be so difficult to secure the funds, and as far as I know, they are to be counted. A slightly more complicated chapter can be the gender equality strategy adopted for 2021 to 2030, because that is what I have unfortunately not found in the programming statement. One of the first measures, which was taken under my leadership and approved by the government, was the Action Plan for the Prevention of Domestic and Genderly Conditioned Violence, which has now been extended. The funds that were provided were very useful and were not enough, of course, for what was happening in the times of the covids, that is a different chapter. So here I think that the entire area of the Czech Republic's equalisation of women and men is missing in the programming statement, as it should be standard in an advanced Europe. We're really somewhere in the last quarter. Next - The strategy of equality, inclusion and participation of Rom for the years 2021 to 2030. For the first time in history, there's the word participation. Every right is to be responsible, we have it clear in criminal law, but it is not only true in criminal law. If anyone wants rights, they have to be responsible. We took such a bold step and I thank the Romani minority, her elite, very much that she was able to redo the original, officials classically prepared strategy with which she did not agree very much, on a strategy that is really modern. I believe that the funds that will be released from the European Union will be used appropriately. The Czech Government, the new government, has the task of this year, by the end of this year - I recommend it in the first half, and I can recommend it, the deadline is until 31. 12. 2022 - establish a position of representative for Romani affairs, because no matter how hard you try as an agent or agent, minister or minister of human rights, you will never convince a minority of national, in this case Romani, that you are their so-called and do the best they want. They deserve to have a representative who will have responsibility for his affairs. In this respect, it is up to the government to establish the position, the position to choose it well - it is already nominated by the Council of Government for Romani Affairs as a nominee, which, of course, you can or do not have to accept - to take seriously the recommendations of the European Union and the Council of Europe by the end of this year, to engage more and to give greater rights and responsibilities, especially the rights now and the responsibilities in the management of matters relating to the Roma minority in the Czech Republic. It is also a strategy for public administration cooperation with non-state non-profit organisations. I was dissatisfied here, and I have repeatedly reminded the former government how important it is to improve the picture of nonprofits, and that some of them are irreplaceable, irreplaceable, very helpful to the citizens, and they are forgotten. It usually reduces to criticism of several so-called political nonprofits and forgets the hundreds of nonprofits that do work for us, which would cost us a lot more if it were to be done by the state. Maybe something's come up, the strategy's counting on it. It is ready, it is approved, it is for 2021 to 2030. I had the pleasure, but at the same time, the responsibility, the strategy, for them to be adopted and for them to be prepared, processed, discussed with all the ministries, and then I had to convince the government to accept them. It wasn't always easy. There's a strategy lying on your desk, because the agent or agent must also be a little brave and sometimes sign something that might not like. And you know that, but you believe that something like this should be discussed, and it wasn't enough to discuss it. One document was not enough to discuss, and at least some questions should be answered immediately, because we are in conflict not only with case law, international conventions and so on, but also with such general consensus. I'll tell you what's going on. It is a prepared LGBT+ strategy, where a lot of measures are precisely justified by scientific reports, studies, statistical hard data. It's one of the most carefully prepared strategies, but I'm not saying it has to be approved. However, some of the measures that are there - luckily, I found it in the programming statement, so I cannot and do not want to be critical that you want a registered partnership - and my colleague Nacher and I have already tried to bring it into a legislative level in the past, which will no longer be challenged as discrimination against people, same-sex couples who conclude registered partnerships. Of course, we're also talking about marrying the same sex couples in that strategy. Until now, as a Christian and a Catholic, I don't understand when countries like Ireland and Spain allow a civil marriage - I always say a civil marriage, the church is something else, a church marriage - so why do we have such a problem with it? [[18.00 hours]] That is why I miss the law on the national referendum, and I personally miss it in the programme statement. Why are we afraid to ask people such questions as: Are you in favour of getting married to the same sex couple? Why are we afraid of this? Why don't we adopt such a law? And then the answer would be white. Of course, there is something else - and I would always and will always be against it - to hold such a referendum in areas such as to withdraw or not withdraw from the EU or from NATO, that is a taboo to me. But on questions to smoke or not to smoke in restaurants, admit marriages to the same sex couples we've been discussing here? For example, bypassing cyclists - 1.5 metres, 2 metres - is a national referendum. Why should we Members hesitate about this and not know what those who elected us would really want? So this is one of the strategic materials that you should discuss, because at least one thing in this strategy is measure 1.3.1 - to bring the process of official sex change in the Czech Republic into line with international human rights standards - should be corrected as soon as possible. The point is that the treatment of official sex change is contrary to the protection of human rights, the mandatory operational with case law, and it can be quite easily adapted by the amendment to the Civil Code and the Act on Matrices. In the past it crashed in 2018, you can, Minister, see, you have it in the Justice Department. My successor Minister Pelikán prepared it, unfortunately, the government was no longer able to discuss it, there was no political will on the part of the Ministry of the Interior in particular. I believe that this will not be a problem under the leadership of a new minister at the Ministry of the Interior and that this really conflict with human rights commitments will be able to be corrected. It's part of the strategy, among other things. And now I come to what I also wanted to tell you what is important for you to use, as the Government of Andrej Babiš has used its government bodies, or government councils, committees. We have been monitoring the situation with those at risk during the covid, and that is always crucial to me, because I have defined human rights in particular as social rights. After all, I think that political rights are not only well regulated in the Czech Republic, of course, but also applied. But social rights, there are the biggest weaknesses. So we have adopted some documents, the Senior Desatero /not only for the time of the coronavirus. Even a government committee was formed, you've got it there, it's under perfect leadership. His name is the government committee on the rights of older people, and he accepted the so-called senior tenatero for the time of coronavirus, but not just for them. I can't, and I don't have time to read it here. Then we issued 10 recommendations on families and children in the framework of coronavirus. Then we released the Technology Desatero (not only) for the time of coronavirus, because one of the priorities was also human rights of modern technology. There was also a new government committee, perfectly managed, a committee on human rights and modern technology. There are people in IT, modern technology, and they are trying to reconcile the modern trends with the needs of people who are either not technically so well at it and their rights could be limited by it, or are simply often elderly, say 70+, and do not want to be dependent only on helping their grandsons. It's just a specific example. Of course, we have some concrete achievements to which the Chamber of Deputies has helped - I want to thank her for this, all of them, both the former coalition, which is logical and the opposition - the bill of granting a lump sum to persons sterilized in violation of the law, the option protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have not ratified the Istanbul Convention. It is a question that does not know the answer yes, no - simple, and you will certainly have to deal with it in some way argumentatively and then politically. What I think is a great pity, and I did not find it in the programming statement except for the national referendum, is - but I suppose I found there - that the care for vulnerable children is to be unified under the roof of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that it would not be fragmented again - the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education, so I welcome that, of course, is very good. But, for example, the Children's Ombudsman Act, which is a key norm in cases where the state fails through the OSPOD and when parental disputes are unable to defend effectively enough, the child's Ombudsman could enter into such proceedings. At the same time, the second major area should ensure youth participation within the age of 18 in governance. So that's what I think it should be here. On the other hand - you see, it is so that I am very happy at times, I do not know and I am critical at times - so I am very happy that it is explicitly set here - and it is also from the workshop, here I will fall, Minister, suspect that we are working too closely on the programming statement, which is not true - but here you have: "We will support the consensual resolution of parental conflicts, children must not be victims of a dispute between parents." And I liked that, because here we have the House Press 40, and no matter how much we improve it with the amendment, the essence is there, and I'm glad I found it in the programming statement. So what I really don't like about the other side, and I have to say this quite openly too, is the tycoon, the criticism and the inciting of public fears that we are in the worst, the most horrible, and in terms of the most problematic year. I think it's the other way around. The two years 2020 and 2021 were the worst, and now I see the light at the end of the tunnel, and this is what I am - because I go to senior facilities regardless of whether they are elections or not, so I have been in the past two weeks in two - and this is how I calmed seniors when I told them something more - but, of course, in laymany - about inflation, about how it will look with energy, about how we did with debt, what we did as government, so I would ask you not to send those negative messages to the public, which is more or less defenseless, and if it is not supplied with the specific facts that my colleague has presented here, former finance secretary Schillerová and other speakers, so they could easily fall into depression, anxiety and other negative ideas in connection with what is immediately waiting for us. And I think the same thing about covid. The Covido issue seems to me that we have already crossed the top not only in the light of statistics, but also in the light of public perception, because we have managed it. And we did it. You will certainly continue this trend, and I will personally, and I think that my colleagues and colleagues too, will keep our fingers crossed, because the covid should unite and not divide. [[18.10 hours]] Because I promised not to speak - as in the faculty - for too long, I am coming to a conclusion. The conclusion is the hardest for me, and you will find out why: because, and that is why I have turned to Prime Minister Fiala and told him that as a member of the strongest opposition party, I cannot work at the same time, even though I enjoy the human rights agenda as much as possible - I really think that over the three years something has succeeded. Furthermore, I will vote because there are some of our key policy plans, measures, and at the same time I do not agree with certain things, so I will not put my trust in this government, even if I am happy to support it in those particular segments, as I said, for example, in the area of justice, its actions. So as an opposition MP, as someone who sees the programming statement as unbalanced and in some areas very general, difficult to control, and as someone who has heard so many promises recently, I will not express that confidence today. I'm aware that I'm part of a wider government team, so Prime Minister Fiala and I made a deal, and I quit at the end of January. But I also promise here behind the speaker's counter that I will hand over the agenda properly to my successor or successor, if necessary, and I will definitely help this issue in the House. Thank you for your attention. I am glad to be here with you as a Member, since February 1st only as a Member, only in quotation marks, because that is actually a huge mandate. From this counter, I would like to thank everyone for their confidence in me, especially the previous government and Prime Minister Babiš, and of course those who decided in the parliamentary elections that I would be here in the third term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u63	Thank you very much. That was Mrs Válková. Seeing if anyone's applying for priority rights? No, so another duly signed up is Mr. Kolovratník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u64	So good evening, colleagues, Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government. Thank you for the floor. During today's discussion, I would like to speak on the subject of government trust, and I can promise and advise that I will primarily stick to my area, i.e. transport gesture and that when I compared my pre-election vows, what your coalition proposed, offered to citizens and voters, what the YES movement argued with, and what the reality of today's statement and the reality of today's statement is. Maybe I'll lighten things up for the opening of my performance. I appreciate that, and I am glad that your benches are quite full, that there is interest - at least at this moment - in the debate and debate, and that you listen to us, the opposition. I'm looking at social media, so we're glad that the earful has resonated, that word commentators like Petr Honzejk, Radek Bartoníček, have shown that they're watching us, Mr Kopecký, we understand that he's understanding, so we'll see if anyone will have a happy Monday after today's happy Wednesday of our new government. Well, we're glad we're being followed here in the House. By the time I get to transport, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, I will respond to your performance. I listened to him very carefully, and I took ad hoc notes at the time when you spoke at the beginning of today. One of the first sentences you said: "We are not populists and we do not promise what cannot be fulfilled. " I have a short comment about this, which is linked to the transport sector. It is true, for example, in the promised number of kilometers of new highways, the new construction, you really do not promise much. And I'm sorry, I'm gonna be a little ironic, and I'll talk later. For a while, I thought you were rather skeptics, that you were afraid to promise more, that you didn't have much ambition. But of course you have the right to such a careful statement and I respect it. But there were a number of other moments in your speech, and in my opinion, they were promises that went against their logic a little bit. One of the other sentences: we will save in the budget, we will save in the budget, we will reduce the debt. But in my programming statement, I read a commitment that may be ambitious: "We will give the regions six billion on the roads of the second and third classes. " In fact, I could be happy with that promise. I'll remind you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u65	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you a bit, and I'm going to ask especially in the right side of the hall that colleagues and colleagues calm down and calm down. Thank you very much. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u66	Thank you so much for that, Mr President. I believe that my words may sometimes come to some of the ears, as you said, especially in the right part of the hall. To the 6 billion here I will mention: just during the government, whose participation was the YES movement, it started in 2014, I think they invented the system, designed it, running in various levels since 2015 - 2.5 billion, 3, sometimes 4 billion regions. And here I want to say, in those previous governments, you might argue that there's no need to go back to history, but in those previous governments where the ODS were involved, the TOP 09, where this never happened, it never happened. We're lucky, but I'm asking, where are you gonna get that $6 billion? A simple number, a simple sum - it has given, it has given, so if I put more somewhere, it will be somewhere less. And I'm asking, and I don't see it in that programming statement. Will you limit, reduce the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure? Can you touch the investment? Will you reach the Railway Administration for repairs, for operational capacity? It seems simple - we will not repair, we will only invest. But I will remind you, Railway Administration has over 9,000 kilometers of dense network, one of the coolest in Europe, and just to ensure that traffic, operational capacity, sufficient security, every year that network needs some money. And we're hearing about a promise to 6 billion counties. I'm very curious about that. Another of your sentences, Prime Minister Fiala: "We will save on ourselves, not on citizens." And I'm looking at the program statement and I'm reading that the fare discounts will be revised. I said, "Can you limit the discounts?" In what way, if you don't want to save on the citizens? Will you limit the possibility of active life for the elderly? The fact that they can live actively for a relatively small amount, to go on trips, to recreation, but also to work, to visit their relatives, their families? Or can't you limit them? What's the revision gonna be like? Unfortunately, we don't know that at this point. You're talking about the top experts you're gonna lure into the state administration. What's the way it's gonna be? Will it be a work quarantine when, again, dispatchers with positive tests may be working in the transport department at the control control centers? Is that gonna be the lure of the experts? I'm very worried about it. Another sentence I heard today after 9:00 p.m.: We want to build 10,000 flats a year more. About 10,000 flats, and now I'm ironically answering: is that why you want to break down the building bill on Friday as the first point? Is that why you want to dismantle it, postpone it for a year? Instead, I understand it was some kind of political thing, I don't want to use the word victory, some outcome of negotiations and voting here in the Senate and the House during the last parliamentary term. And instead - I wrote it in a number of public articles - to find consensus and discuss how to improve the law, how to get it to function, to efficiency, to find consensus across the political spectrum - it can be topics such as urban planning and municipalities within a separate scope, it can be the final resolution of a clear measure against the inactivity of the building authorities, better definition of material law or strengthening the role of builders, but also the role of municipalities in judicial review and building proceedings - you say that the construction law is wrong, that it does not like self-government and that you simply put it off temporarily, and then the will of God is done. Then maybe there's a solution. And I'm saying that honestly, it just goes against my promise that you want to build more, 10,000 flats more a year. I'm thinking, we might actually be happy about it, I think that promise is impossible, but of course we're not happy, we don't want it to end this way. [[18.20 hours]] To the better communication: today and daily I am written by representatives of professional associations, trade representatives, associations dealing with construction, including building permits or permits in the field of tourism, camps, recreational facilities, and they say that the new Minister for Regional Development - unfortunately, he is not here now - Mr Bartoš is not responding to them, he is not responding, he is even blocking them on the Internet. So I don't know how the MMR will be managed and how it will answer a number of questions and uncertainties about building law. I must say for myself: the reason to speak against the proposal, i.e. to distrust, is another, is political and ideal. I'm a bit familiar with the overall lineup of your government statement, which I remember for a year, a year and a half from my homeland, from the Pardubice Region. We are then - it will be a short excursion, I promise - in the regional elections they decided to go with such tactics or strategies that we would not criticize, we would not at all be evil and ugly, defining ourselves. We have come up with our own progressive proposals. For example, we proposed support for tourism in the form of vouchers, we proposed support for healthy lifestyle through subsidies for cycling, investment in secondary schools, tablets, teaching resources, new ways of obtaining European funds. The movement YES then - it was such a non-win, although it won, I have to respect it and I will respect it, but it is déjà vu, then again agreed such a blind coalition from the remnants of ČSSD, ODS, TOP 09, KDU, STAN - and today's results in the Pardubice Region? Bus transport is in the rubble, the county will pay almost CZK 500 million last year for this service, for the wrong organization. Today and daily, citizens from the south, from the southeast part of our region, from Jevíčsko, from Moravia, write to me that they are cut off, that there are bus lines falling out, that traffic is not working. The region to this day does not have a connection to the D35 motorway, on which it acquired - and now beware, in April 2017 - 2.7 billion crowns from the state. He hasn't spent a single crown to this day. Amateur investment in regional health care, doctors and nurses are standing in the rain waiting for them to get their meals, lunch, because the region has not provided quality food service in the regional hospital until today. This is the reality of the Pardubice Region here in the coalition, which was also the only thing in common - to be against the ANO movement. And to avoid being negative, my colleagues from the Pardubice Region are here, so I will set a positive example. The regional city, the city of Pardubice, where the ANO movement is in coalition with the ODS and also with KDU, works. It's not easy, we're discussing, we're arguing at the city council, but the city works, invests, fixes schools, kindergartens, swimming pools, builds a summer stadium or builds parking houses. So these are two examples of a comparison between the regional city of Pardubice and the Pardubice region. I am simply afraid that the reality of yours, yours - I will use the term blindness - against the YES movement, threatens our country. I'm saying that loud and clear. There was a little bit of a mix-up from last night. So far, it's only been mentioned a few times, and that was a demonstration before the Office of the Government. Demonstration against the new government, demonstrations from farmers. Karel Tureček's colleague is probably gonna get more divorced than I am, so I'm not gonna interrupt his agenda. But I guess the journalists turned a blind eye, there wasn't much to write about the demonstration - I wasn't looking, but I don't know if any government had already had demonstrations a few days or weeks before it came into existence. That's a pretty good record for you. And while we are - very briefly - in agriculture, I will now turn critically to Marian Jurečka. Marian, or Minister, you are now Minister of Social Affairs, but the Internet is relentless. When I Googled for five minutes, I found from 22nd August 2016 celebratory news about how Czech forests are in the best shape in the last 250 years. Another forest will support hundreds of million-dollar subsidies, we have the best landscape and the share of forests will grow, said Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka in August 2016. And reality? By that time, sometime since 2015, perhaps 2013, barking calamity spread in northern Moravia and spread to the whole republic. These are also your promises, public statements compared to reality. Okay, but now the bridge to transport, as I promised. It was the last link, Prime Minister Fiala, for your performance this morning. You said a sentence there, and I'm sorry, the quote won't be exact: we're still missing the highway - I agree - and we don't have a good rail network. I will not test you, Prime Minister, please consider this a rhetorical question, if you know how dense our rail network is, how many trains will Czech carriers send every day? I will answer myself, or I will give you a hint: the network is really the densest in Europe, it's over 9,000 kilometers, it's almost 8,000 trains a day, so the intensity of the network is really great. And once again, let's look at the programming statement where unfortunately, I didn't find those promises to improve any quality. In general, I feel that the transport department in the programme statement is simply not ambitious. I can say - now I am going to turn to Martin Kupka, the new Minister of Transport, and it is not ironic - that the government is following up on what was prepared for her to prepare constructions, investments, whether on motorways or railroads, and for that of course we are happy. It is correct not only to criticize at all costs, but also to be positive. We're glad you applied in your own way. But when I'm reading right at the beginning of the investment plan, I'm asking, what's that supposed to mean? After all, we have an investment plan, we have it for three years, we have the medium-term outlook for the SFDI budget, including the so-called SDV, the medium-term outlook, we have a joint vote from the last House of Law 416, where we define priority buildings, we have transport sector strategies for transport policy by 2027. We have plans. I read the sentence: "We will secure a stable budget for the SFDI." I will certainly ask that question not only here today, but as I think Mr Žáček has announced, on the Economic Committee. After all, we secured it at a record level, this year or last year it was CZK 127.5 billion. It was roughly during the period of the government of the ANO movement 30% increase of the SFDI movement. So I'm going to ask how you're going to secure a stable budget? You're gonna raise him? Will it also be 30 percent higher in 2025? I wish! I'd like that very much. And, you know, I'm gonna be a little ironic right now, and these opening clauses kind of remind me of these promises that the moon will have four weeks and that we'll be back to what we're used to after summer coming autumn. It's a statement, unfortunately, it's nothing new. And I found a number of concessions from those electoral promises, and that's good for the citizens, our voters, to hear about it: by 2025 we will build 200 kilometers of highways. And the election program? The election vows of the coalition? It was 250 kilometers of highways, a footnote - YES was qualified to talk about 294, we were based on some trajectory of the plan and the state of preparations for ŘSD. Here you can see that I base my argument on what I said at the beginning, that promises are, in my opinion, very little ambitious. "Priorly we will focus on other sections of D35," I read in the programme statement. Against this, YES made it clear that by 2023, specifically - it was a specific, verifiable promise - we will start another five sections. On the one hand, I am glad that the new government is applying for the construction of high-speed lines, after all, it was our agreement in March 2017 across the House, but again - it is a general declaration. Against this, we in the YES movement have clearly said and declared with knowledge of the state of the matter at the Railway Administration, and we will be heading towards this, that in 2025 and 2026 we will start building the first sections. And so as not to forget the last traffic mode, the water, you volunteered to stop the Danube-Odra-Labe project. I understand it's a legitimate legitimate political opinion. I will make a footnote to the fact that even for me personally - from my studies at the Pardubice Transport Faculty I heard about the project - the branch between Pardubice and Moravia really raises a lot of controversy. It blocks territorial development for municipalities in the territory of the Pardubice Region. But for example run away, really run away from that part of the Elbe navigation, completing the Elbe navigation from Pardubice to the state border, i.e. login to the sailing stages of Přelouč and Děčín, which I think is a great shame. And here I think you should have been more ambitious. [[18.30 hours]] As I said, I don't just want to criticize, I want to be correct, and I want to mention things that I see positively. I certainly want to appreciate the determination of the binding term for the transformation of ŘSD by the end of 2023. I want to appreciate - and I always report to Martin Kupek: I will be happy to support the expansion of the single ticket, one ticket, to the regions, I will certainly be happy to cooperate and help with the special law on the construction of high-speed lines, we will definitely support the planned modernisation of 500 railway crossings and so on. I promised not to criticize and delay at all costs, so in conclusion, I really will have four questions at the end of my speech. We don't have to play some kind of interpelation, there'll be plenty of time for that to happen, but I'll be glad to hear it, and I'll be glad if you feel it, and if we can get back to them on the committee or when we talk about laws and budgets. The budget is really important to me. In my programming statement, I am completely lacking in expressing how spending will grow to the SFDI. As I said, at this time, it was less than CZK 128 billion, and that is crucial in transport, as everywhere - it is about resources. And if I only read the general sentence: "We will secure a stable budget," I see the promised expenses to the regions, but I also see the promises for 500 level crossings, the development of high-speed lines, I will want to do this, and I will beg for answers as you secure the budget and if you increase it. And what concerns the citizens, our viewers and listeners today, who are watching today's meetings: What will be the price of the motorway stamp? Personally, I've had my time with her. I once brought a bill to the House in Law 13 to increase the possible upper limit, and I got that from you. That's what I got from this coalition, members of the former House, behind my ears. So what I'm going to ask is, are you going to leave the price of the highway stamp at its original level or are you going to make it expensive? Please tell the citizens. Next question, third: Railway regional lines. In the programme statement, such a general reference is made to the modernisation of the railway in logical sections, cooperation with self-government. But let's see what happened last year on the territory of the Central Bohemia Region, how representatives of the region, especially those behind the STAN movement, stood up to regional lines. It was and is a big and strong topic for my colleague Karel Havlíček. The state invested tens of millions of crowns in regional lines in the Central Bohemia Region and the Central Bohemia Region said that traffic was too expensive, and it simply cancelled the transport there, did not order. So even here, I'm asking for your reaction and I'm going to ask you how you're going to stand up - and there's more of those options, and I'm sure we'll be happy to discuss them, and maybe we'll find a common ground and a common theme - but when I read the Piratestan program about some of the high voltages and pipelines in the runway protection zone, I was smiling nicely. That's all I'm gonna comment on. At the railroad last mention, last two. Please, Minister Martin Kupka, please, correct and decently, the subject of ETCS and security. Again, I only read the sentence in the programme statement: "We will focus on greater safety on the railway, the surveillance activity will be strengthened. " All right, but there's a sentence I don't really know what it means: "The schedule of equipment will be updated 4 800 kilometers of lines by the European ETCS security system." I've already said it, I don't want to make this an intervention, we'll talk about it, we'll get back to it on the committee, but please consider carefully and carefully what is the word "updated"? Will he move forward in the future? Will he move on? Will it be postponed? That's what I'm saying in advance, that would be very wrong, please, that can't happen. We have a clear, fixed and government-approved implementation plan for the deployment of ETCS. The plan clearly states that we have to go out on the main corridors in that dedicated regime in 2025 and it is closely linked to all the surrounding states in the railway network. So this is now in a well-intentioned message to the Minister of Transport, and I ask that - if he hears any hints or suggestions, he saves more, whether he pushes it away in time, maybe he can sort it out - so he doesn't hear the words here. This is a very important thing. And perhaps the last, once again, what concerns our citizens, ours and your voters, are discounts on fare. I already talked about them. We thought it was a flagship in public transport. You see, it worked that they made public transport accessible not only to students, but I'm going to tell a number of low-income groups, people who don't normally travel or can't afford it, whether on weekends or on their own time, but also for needs that would be a little hard to meet. I see it in my family and in my neighborhood. And here again I only read the sentence that by 30 June we will revise the system. We don't know how, we don't know how much, and I'm asking you not to do that so you can keep those public transport discounts. It's just a general declaration so far. And the conclusion - two sentences. At the Department of Transport, as I said, I'm glad that in many cases you're going to pick up a job, even if it's ambition, I think there might be a little more, but that's my opinion, you have the right to set it up and build it the way you've formulated it. I am publicly declaring and guaranteeing that I am ready to lend a helping hand, to cooperate, in a non-political, non-ideal way, as we have done in the past period, for example, in Line Act No. 416/2009. But I believe you'll understand that, overall, in the overall message, I personally built a government like this, a blind coalition with such a built program, even I can't give confidence and I won't. In short, I believe and I want to believe that the House here will resonate more topics than unfulfilled vows and sneaky-eared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u67	Thank you very much for the presentation of Mr Kolovratník and with the right to give priority to Mr Benda. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u68	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose, on behalf of the five ODS, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates, that we continue today's meeting after 21 o'clock, even after 24 o'clock, even after 2 o'clock, 3 o'clock, 4 o'clock. For a long time I thought it would be normal, but when I heard Mr. Kolovratník, whom I otherwise consider to be a relatively rational being, as the sixth sentence says: And in conclusion... I realized that it will not be rational today and that it needs to be completed. So please, on behalf of these five deputies, drag them to the very end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u69	Great. That was a procedural proposal that should be put to the vote immediately, however, President Schillerová... [[He's asking for a gong.]] I have already engaged during the President's speech. I'm going to sign you off and ask you to rejoin your ID cards. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. I think there's been enough time for a new log-in. There was a procedural motion from the President. I'll put it to a vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this procedural proposal? Get him to press the yes button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 45, 175 Members were enrolled, 173 voted in favour, 2 abstained. The motion was accepted. We can therefore act after 21st, 24th, 2nd and 3rd hours, as President Benda suggested. Thank you very much. We will continue with the duly registered Members. I ask that Mr Špičák take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Maybe wait until those who want to leave the O.R. leave. Otherwise, I will ask both the Members of Parliament and the Members for peace so that you can speak calmly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u70	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, like the previous speaker, I will stick to my ministry, my hooves, and allow me therefore to comment on the concept of the health ministry led by Minister Válek, which is presented in the context of the Fiala Government's programming statement. First of all, allow me to make a personal remark. The fields we deal with with Professor Válek are complementary. You and I have known each other well for years, our relationship is positive on academic grounds, and I respect it both on a professional and human level, which, of course, does not mean anything to be done on political grounds. So I promise, Vlastimil, I will follow you closely, and I promise to be critical and critical, but I would say fair and squarely critical. In advance, I would like to look back at the government's previous agenda, which makes up a certain comparison. Of course, as with other resorts, there is a certain evolution in each of the programme objectives, there is a overlap, sometimes a consensus, while on other points our opinions differ. Let me generalize a certain proportion. We would all like to have motorways and pensions as in Germany, education as in Finland, purity as in Norway, culture as in Vienna and science and health research as in Holland. These are strategic objectives that we do not differ from one another, but we can differ - and we are very different - from one another - from the other. I'm going to step away from the previous government program now. It was written well, logically and contained a limited number of priorities, which I consider desirable, because if there are too many priorities, there is actually no priority. I was pleasantly surprised at what everything over the past period managed to handle, knowing that a substantial part of this four-year period was the resort and the entire company paralyzed by the covideo pandemic. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the consequences of the pandemic, they cannot be satisfied with it in any country, and its individual parameters should be analysed, because other anti-pandemic activities should be based on this, and it should also be an inspiration for other areas of global health threat. kupodivu, this analysis of the covideo pandemic does not mention the new government's programming statement. The covid is expressed very generally and so briefly that this expression can also be overlooked. It is expressed by a repeated phrase that we must learn to live with it. Sure, no offense. The only concrete point of the anti-Covide programme is the proposal to set up the so-called Koch Institute, which I am calling for a long time ago, and the ANO movement also has this idea in its electoral programme. However, I must point out that Koch's institute is a giant with a large budget, wide range and produces 600 scientific works per year. I completely disagree with the presented proposal for a solution, which I consider to be completely non-productive, and this means: the proposal is that the established institute should be discussed within the Czech Medical Society. This issue has already been discussed by the Council of the Government for Science and Research and the concept has been prepared by Professor Jurajda in a highly qualified manner. Please note that the Czech Medical Society is not exhibiting any executives, so there is a threat to the process of endless discussion without any concrete impact. On the contrary, I recommend that we create an actionable multidisciplinary committee, which would complete Jurajdův's concept in a short term, including funding and identification, within which institution the institution should be created. One of the universities or Academy of Sciences is considered, and in order for the project to be successful, it has to be personalized. A guarantor must be appointed, a director must be appointed, who will take this great task as his life's mission. When I compare the programmes in 2018 and 2022, it is understandable, as I have already said, that they overlap in a number of areas. They deal with health insurance companies with an effort to increase competition and transparency of all processes - nothing against it. However, the new programme proposes explicitly voluntary supplementary insurance. I believe, like my previous speaker, that this proposal is currently completely inappropriate. I consider it a libation to the so-called right-wing electorate, and I think that even the representatives of the current government cannot be serious about it. Creating a similar politically passable program is technically very laborious, it will arouse great passions, distract attention from current problems, deepen ditches in society and increase inequality in the availability of quality care. There is no way we can afford that at the moment. Otherwise, both programmes, 2018 and 2022, deal with the availability of care within regions, this is a continuous problem. Of course, both refer to quality control - it was systematically started in the past government, but it is a very technically complicated process, far beyond one parliamentary term. Another constant is naturally digitization. We know how much has been done in the last four years by introducing eRecipe and introducing eIncompetents. And, of course, the problem is the transparency of computer science, especially with regard to hospital management. Evergreen is prevention and, of course, I don't think I need to point out here - everyone has registered an entirely extraordinary engagement of the entire government, the Prime Minister of the Republic, in terms of oncology programs. I must say that oncological preventive programs are really high in Bohemia and there is a real decrease in the incidence of a number of tumors, in the first place of colon cancer. The current programme, however, runs into the area of support for the production of healthy food, which cannot affect the management of the resort, and even in existing payments, substantial changes in schoolchildren's diet can be achieved. What the new programme does not mention, and I consider it a mistake, although it may seem like a detail, is the dental prevention of children. It has also been mentioned today, and I think that it seems to be a marginality, but it is not a marginality. Both programmes are concerned with the reform of psychiatric care, which has also been started in the past period, and I believe that it is going very successfully. Another evergreen is, of course, simplifying the administration. We know that in practice it is very difficult to realize. And also reform of postgraduate education, but there is no specific assignment in the current programme. On the last programme from 2018, I find very specifically the sympathetic three programmes that the new government's declaration lacks. Firstly, it is a relative briefness, which I consider to be a priority, because once we have a hundred priorities, we do not actually have a priority. Another important point, which is not mentioned in the current programme, is an increase in competence - it is an appeal to increase the competence of practitioners. Finally, a very important appeal is explicitly declared helpful to the opposition, because most key problems require a continuous solution, a continuous approach, and it cannot be fundamentally changed in every election period under a new political dictatorship. Similarly, I do not find a new mention of the increase in health care workers' salaries, which has been explicitly said and implemented in the old programme. Both programmes also include proposals for easier and controlled implementation of new technologies. There is new talk of recommended procedures within the Agency for Health Research. It is a rather specific problem, so for those who are not involved in the academy area, I would like to point out that this project is not a complete novelty. Basically, it exists, it is already visible on the front page of the agency, it really exists and there are also dozens of recommended procedures already created. But I'm warning you, it's not basically self-savvy. The creation of universally structured recommended procedures is specific during the long run and is generally obsolete at the time of approval. [[18.50 hours]] An interesting new point I have noted is the motivation for the arrival of top scientists from abroad. I would, however, point out that the management of the resort has no influence on this, and it is only an appeal that I would personally extend and generalize. Research must be managed internationally. Like high-quality football and high-end research, it is not possible to carry out only with domestic offspring. I consider the fundamental lack of a new programme to be a complete disregard for stimulating the arrival of foreign workers or health workers from abroad, without which our health care could no longer exist. So this problem will undoubtedly increase. I'd take the liberty of summing up. As far as possible, negatively affected pandemics managed to implement a number of priorities from the previous programme. I cannot be anything but critical of the new government's agenda. In my opinion, it is too comprehensive, long, unspecific, at least sometimes not fully understood for me, it runs into areas that the management of the resort cannot influence. Rather, it is based on the electoral program of the SPOLU. The PirSTAN election program, which I read very carefully, was practically not taken into account. Specifically, there's no anti-covoid strategy. The Kochův Institute project, as I have already said, is virtually unrealistic. I find the insurance to be completely inappropriate. The emphasis on research is unspecific. There is no stimulus for the arrival of health workers from abroad. Under some wordings my imagination does not find real content, for example: "By the end of 2022 we will support the emergence of other complex health care centers." Another point I dare to contradict, although I am not an economist, is multiannual financing planning. This is a program for prognostics, but not from the real world. I can plan anything, but if we have a one-year national budget, there is no reason for the Health Department to behave differently, especially with regard to very dynamic changes of all kinds. If I were to grade the new government's agenda, I would evaluate it with a sign worse than the average. Not only did he not inspire me, but he didn't satisfy me. I'm going to ask for an explanation of the issues. In this form, I cannot agree with him and, on the basis of him, I cannot express my support to the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u71	I thank Mr Špičák. I have two factual points here - the first Mr Brázdil. Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. In my point of fact, I would like to draw attention to one evergreen, which the previous speaker, Professor Špičák, said here, to: High-quality available health care for all without regional differences - we consider to be one of the pillars of a modern and successful state. Yeah, I agree. There's a lot here that's wrong with the program. I would like to thank and express my thanks to this slogan or this point, to commend the Minister. And praise him because we talked and he's willing to make the regional difference in pre-hospital emergency care, I mean the rescue service, unite so that there aren't fourteen originals, so that there's a state-controlled rescue service, so that this rescue service is fully equal to the Fire Department and the police, so that the rescue service doesn't and doesn't get under firefighters, as is currently happening, when firefighters have a plan to get under control and pre-hospital care to do under the Fire Rescue Corps. Well, that's me, though there's a lot of other things I don't agree with, so I want to thank you for that. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u73	Thank you very much. That was Mr Brázdil's point of fact. Another point of fact is made by Mr Bělobrádek. I don't see him in the hall, so his application is forfeit. We'll return to properly logged in. I ask Mr Vondrák to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u74	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly comment here on the issue that is raised in the field of education and, of course, partly in the field of science and research. I certainly consider it good news that it follows up on what has been done in the past period, that is, on the 2030 Strategy. That is what I think is good, because our education does not deserve rapid movements that could lead to destabilization, and I think that the direction of this view is absolutely fine. So there I think it's good, and I don't think there are any differences that I would consider essential and fundamental. I agree that funding will be crucial. From my position as head of the school committee, I am very happy to help school and education receive more money in general. [[Suddenly there are several voices in the microphone.]] It's kind of baffling that actually in the first step, the teachers... Someone's got a microphone on behind me. [[The president turned off his mic.]] Thank you. They're getting an increase or 2 percent, which is contrary to what you all wanted. It's actually the first time after four years that teachers here unfortunately get less than they deserve, and I don't think this year and last year they have any easy ones. I think the lessons they were going through were very demanding. So I firmly believe that the budget that is being prepared will not be in this stingy and our teachers and, of course, all those who are involved in education will not live to see what I, as rector, have lived to see when during the government, when the finance minister was Mr Kalousek, I had to save CZK 300 million, please, CZK 300 million! Let us look at the next point, and this is the "Revision of Framework Education Programmes'. I am also of the opinion that the essence of learning is not to say everything, but to say what is necessary and important. I think that is undoubtedly correct, so this revision needs to be carried out. But I confess that I am a little skeptical of what was said, that there are basically explicit references to things such as civil education, ethical education, critical thinking, teaching the history of the 20th century, and we forgot what was discussed here very violently. We canceled our math graduation in the past period, and it was justified by the fact that the graduation was not necessary, that it was important to change the teaching of mathematics itself. Unfortunately, nothing has happened until now. Of course, this goes beyond the previous Minister of Education. I think that mathematical competence or competence in mathematics is one of those that is considered a key indicator of the education of young people along with Czech and other natural sciences. So I think we should get back to the fact that Newtonův's laws will be part of the framework education programs again. I have this feeling that we've decided to go along the path of too soft skills and forget about what basically moves the world around us. What I would consider important to realize is what I hear when I actually meet with industrial representatives or with people from industry, and that is the sentence: Qualified workforce is missing. I understand we want to prepare people for the future for our schools, but those companies and industry need them right now, and they're not here right now. And I believe that the solution is to prepare people with the fact that through lifelong learning we will educate them, prepare them to perceive the need to adapt to new technologies, to new disciplines, which in essence will not want to say haunt us in the next decades, but wait. From this point of view, and I see this as a positive thing, I would appreciate the fact that it appears explicitly in the programme that dual education is being considered. I would like to say here that we have prepared a law, a substantive bill of dual education. I will only be happy to be able to build on it, and I firmly believe that what is most limping in the education system today, that is, vocational education and practical education, is going to make amends. [[19.00 hours]] I agree that the role of director is crucial. The Director must have responsibility, he must basically be responsible for the quality of teaching, education. The problem is, they don't have time for this, and unfortunately, I think it's probably wrong to think that information systems and digitalization will solve it. That's not true. We just have to change the director's competence, he has to have a partner to take care of business, investments, just the school's director can't go around construction companies and check whether the window change is going on properly or not, that's what someone else has to be doing. Indeed, the director must be a leading figure teaching, not one who will take care of public procurement. That means it won't solve the information system. This is indeed a matter of profound change that we must make. I think college can be a role model. There's the position of the rector, there's the position of the bursar, and everyone has a divided competence in making these things not happen. That means the Quaestor handles the operation, the finances, the investments. Of course, the Rector has, let's say, the main word about, say, the general formation of the university, whether from the point of view of education, science, research, and, of course, the application of the third role. By the way, the third part of the program is missing, too. It must be noted that universities are key. The lack of doctors, the lack of dentists, but the lack of technicians, these are all things that the universities must be aware of and must basically respect these needs in a natural way, because they have their autonomy and they cannot be ordered to do so. So I think it will also need to be adjusted in the future. And now I get to the issue of science and research. On me, I confess, the program is as general as it is. There are a lot of things like "we want a modern, coordinated and transparent management system." I remember a colleague of mine from the United States who said, "I can't do research." I wouldn't want to say that, of course. I think the research problem is much more complex because basic research motivates and controls the people who do it because they're the ones who discover it. But, of course, applied research and research, innovation, these are things that are then, let's say, driven by the market and the company's demands as such. But here I'd like to say that I'm surprised at the establishment of the Ministry of Science and Research, but most of all, it feels like it's halfway there. Why? Because research is essentially being carried out in universities, and we now have something that is, of course, also specified in the programme that the Ministry of Education will communicate with the Ministry of Science and Research. That means there's definitely going to be a double-track in the steering. And so when the Ministry had already prepared it, it was supposed to be done so that the Ministry would also be part of the management of universities. This is how they have it in Austria, this is how other countries have it, because, of course, more than university education is what makes the university their own, and that is basically research activity. And that's why we still have a problem in this country with all the rankings that universities are assessing, because we don't realize that the assessment is particularly drawn to indicators that bind to science and research. [[tho]] Well, then I think it should either be fixed, or I think that the Ministry will, in my opinion, be quite unnecessary. But I'll be convinced that I'm wrong. I'm going to be convinced by specific actions, and I'm a person who's spent my whole life in research and universities, whether in our country or abroad, and I firmly believe that there's basically something that's going to change these things, because I'm a little worried that sometimes our universities are in such a way that sometimes they're too quiet, there's not that motivation, and what would push them to be the best in the world, even though, of course, it's not quite simple. So I'm looking forward to these things changing, I'm happy to contribute, but like I said, we're going to be surprised. So thank you, and I don't know if I can say good evening and have the rest run away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u75	Thank you. Mr Karel Tureček is now another member of the debate, and then Mr Jaroslav Bžoch will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u76	Madam President, dear government, colleagues, I would like to take a look at the Government's Logic Program Statement that this should be the penetration of the electoral programs of the parties to the government coalition. However, when I look at the Government's Declaration on Agriculture, I must say that this is almost entirely a rollover of the SPOL coalition programme. The electoral programme, like the election campaign, aims undoubtedly to mobilize voters at the cost of a certain polarization of society, but if such potential is contained in the Government's Program Declaration, that is a major problem. In the field of agriculture, the programming declaration really has such potential, and this is the implementation of a revision of the position of the Czech Republic towards the common agricultural policy. When I did this review of the individual programmes, I did not find anywhere that the new government, the new coalition, was going to undertake a revision of the position of the Czech Republic towards the common agricultural policy. The change in the strategic plan in this policy was not in the electoral programme of any party to the current government coalition. The government is quickly changing the compromise. I mean, this compromise was very carefully discussed last year. Eleven rounds of settlement took place with the participation of all NGOs, academics, representatives of both the European Parliament, representatives of the Chamber of Deputies, representatives of the Senate. This strategic plan has been consulted with the European Commission on a continuous basis. There were 24 working groups working on it. Yet the government is changing this plan from table to hand. It is best to see the arrogance and ruthlessness of the new government to change this strategic plan in one night. I want to see how this government wants to renegotiate this change when the last government needed one whole year to do it. As I said, eleven rounds of settlement of comments, 24 working groups, and after 15 January this year this strategic plan is to be sent to Brussels for consultation. At first glance, these things sound - government promises - kissing, because people will probably imagine small family farms with eco-products to be added at the expense of the big ones. Support for small family farms is absolutely right. The YES movement had more payments in the programme for the first hectares. But what do I want to stress? That such a short-circuit decision must not harm Czech agriculture as a whole. We can't shoot each other in our own feet. And here I want to say what the reality will be after the change in the Czech Republic. I am based on a clear structure of Czech agriculture. It is only 9 per cent of farms that run up to 50 hectares, and it is only 6 per cent of farms that run up to 100 hectares, so they are about 15 per cent of farms in total. The rest of the agricultural holdings, more than two thirds of the agricultural holdings, account for more than 500 hectares and more. It is our kind of historical heritage, where agriculture has always been based on large farms, and I want to emphasise this. This does not apply only to the period after 1945, but if we take statistics from 1896 for Austria-Hungary, we will find that 28 percent of the agricultural entities managed on an area above 2 000 hectares, 28 percent of the agricultural entities in 1896 in the Czech countries. [[19.10 hours]] I think that revision of this policy is a government that wants to fit into the role of an agricultural Jánošík who will take the rich and give to the poor. I also want to emphasise that smaller farms already have higher subsidies per hectare than larger farms, even within the current programming period. But the government, by its step from last night, is deflecting from the concept of the whole of the European Union. It sets the amount of the so-called redistributive payment, which is added to the base rate per hectare, at 23 %. And here we really have gone against all the states in the European Union. In 24 countries of the European Union, the rate of this redistribution payment is set at 10 per cent, only Germany has 12 per cent and Lithuania has 20 per cent. And we're setting this payment at 23 percent. So is Lithuania really our ambition? The pattern of agriculture of Lithuania, when we set this rate much higher than that of Lithuania? Why do we want to cut our competitiveness? The Government undertakes to proceed to a possible revision after a year. I would like to stress that the year in Czech agriculture and agriculture, which has the biological nature of production and production, is a very short time. Anyone who moves in agriculture knows that if something is to change in agriculture, he simply needs to have these conditions clearly defined at least two, rather three to four years in advance, even with regard to a certain generation interval of livestock, especially in cattle, in pig farming. I would like to stress that this reckless step will deepen the differences between farmers and gamble with food prices and thus with the whole of society. After disproportionate growth in energy prices, gas prices, we will also see growth in food prices. The Government's decision in this area will certainly contribute to this. Another thing to which this measure will contribute concerns the price of rents and the price of agricultural land. We all know that the price of agricultural land has increased over the past ten years. Ten years ago, the price of agricultural land was on average around CZK 3 per square metre, and now the price on average is around CZK 25. We are also being criticized that agricultural land is already becoming an interest of various speculators, different groups with foreign participation, and farmers can hardly reach the purchase of agricultural land. And I think that this decision on the redistribution payment will make a significant contribution to this. Why? Because small farms up to 150 hectares, if I count it purely with some math, it will also increase CZK 3,800 compared to other subjects. Furthermore, there is an additional payment to young farmers starting with farmers under 40 years of age of around 140 euros per hectare. Here I remind you that Germany also has this rate set at only 70 euros per hectare. This will contribute to the overpayment of rents at the level of small farms, family farms, of course. The pressure of landowners on these small entities will increase, as this has also caused land prices to rise, rent prices in the past. Last time, the argument of the fundamental owners was: When you take such subsidies, we want you to rent more. And the rent went up to approximately CZK 2 to 2.5,000, and in some cases CZK 3,000. At this point, the pressure will increase considerably and will push the price of the scum up to CZK 4,000 to CZK 5,000 per hectare. And that will, of course, affect small family farms. It is no secret that these young entities usually conclude a contract with owners with one year notice. The big ones, as you keep calling them, they're relatively well-treated. Practically no company will enter into a contract with the owner unless there is a notice period of five, six or seven years of notice, simply for a simple reason, because agriculture has the biological nature of production and the farmer simply cannot afford to change his plans radically from one day to the next in terms of production and sustainability. So I warn you that whoever is affected will be the family farms that we hand over to landowners and their dictation. So if I go back to the agricultural Jánošík Jánošík, in the end, this measure will be Jánošík inside out by Janošík, who will take the poor and give to the rich, the agricultural land traffickers. Furthermore, I would like to stop at a controversial point in the programming declaration, which was also in the electoral agenda of the SOLU coalition, which is the determination of the minimum income from agricultural activity to 30% for obtaining investment subsidies. It is therefore a subsidy from the Agricultural and Forestry Guarantee Fund and from the Rural Development Programme. Here, in order not to be just critical, I commend the government for changing its first position and intention of the Rural Development Programme, co-financing, national co-financing, and according to the press yesterday decided to leave the co-financing rate of 65 percent, in other words, back to the decision of the last government of Andrej Babiš, which I consider very positive for rural development. But what I'm not positive about is the 30 percent. Who are the subjects? Even small family farms have so far been able to meet a percentage of 50 percent of the incomes of primary agricultural production. Otherwise, what would family farms do when they deal with agricultural primary production? So the problem of fulfilling that percentage was not problematic for them - 30% is already very speculative. We want to define the family farms owned by solar power plants or biogas plants behind the family farm and therefore cannot meet the 50 per cent criterion of primary agricultural production, so do we want to withdraw them into investment subsidies? At least here, I would appeal to the government in this regard to insist that further conditions be imposed on these subjects. Okay, we want more subjects to deal with agricultural primary production, but let's put a 30 per cent condition on the project's submission, but after the implementation of the project, let's say three to five years of income from primary agricultural production up to 50 per cent. Then this measure has its logic. [[19.20 hours]] For the past 15 years, the representatives of today's coalition at the Department of Agriculture have been over nine years and have practically been covering themselves with this evergreen. When we see a reduction, for example, the ambition of reducing the state's organisational components from 13 to three, we never saw it. It practically always ended up on the same number that started. In practically all this time, only the Agricultural Water Administration has been abolished. If I am to comment on the Ministry of Agriculture comprehensively, I cannot ignore the issue of the Forests of the Czech Republic mentioned here. The previous government of Andrej Babiš spent a total of CZK 17 billion on the solution of the cruststorm. For one thing, it was CZK 13.5 billion so-called direct compensation to owners for the barking calamity, and another CZK 3.5 billion were higher funds for the restoration and cultivation of the forest. At this time, there are 9 billion crowns in the account of the Forests of the Czech Republic, because the previous management of the Forest of the Czech Republic has economically stabilised, stabilized this state enterprise, and I think that at this time the state enterprise of the Forests of the Czech Republic is economically stabilised. When I look at both the government's programming statement and the electoral program of the SPOLU coalition, there is a provision: future profits of state forests will not go into the state budget. Fine. The possibility that these profits from the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic and from all state enterprises of the Czech Republic allow the amendment of the Act on State Enterprise, which was adopted in 2012 and proposed by the Nečasův government. So I'm just reminding you to find out what the problem is. And I'm a little overwhelmed by the word future profits, future profits of state forests. So if there is CZK 9 billion in the account today, can we be confident that the government will not use these practically funds, perhaps as in the past there was a intention to use them, perhaps an investment of CZK 2 billion in the forests of Romania, which of course did not take place, or a project to build a new headquarters of CZK 1.5 billion? At this point, I think it is a priority to further support the firm in terms of stabilization and, of course, to contribute to the fact that the Czech forests can, at this point, be able to cope effectively in the next four-year period from the barking calamity. I would also like to mention the programming declaration in the water sector. I practically have to say that this statement is incomplete for me. He's quite inadequately engaged in combating climate extremes. They completely ignore the solution to flood and drought as a solution insufficient. I want to stress that there is always a consensus in the professional public that we cannot virtually fight one extreme and the other extreme to ignore. We always prefer, for example, the fight against drought, but we draw attention to the fight against floods. And I think our ancestors have always talked comprehensively in this regard and talked about combating the extreme effects of the waters, because one extreme effect of the struggle is the flood and the other extreme is the drought. And I would like to say here, we still underestimate the drought problem and the floods. When I take the FAO study from the point of view of available water sources, the Czech Republic, within the European Union, is practically third in Malta and Cyprus with low water supply availability. It is simple because, on the one hand, we are the roof of Europe, which means that we are fully dependent on precipitation, virtually no water from abroad is coming to us, for example Maďar or other states have this advantage, and the other is that we are an inland state, so in terms of water resource availability, we cannot use the sea and desalination of seawater, such as using sea states, for example the state of Israel has solved its fundamental problem. So in this area, I would certainly expect more than just support for the restoration of wetlands in the pools and small water tanks. I would expect at least an application for a flood prevention programme, which I believe has always been supported across the political spectrum since 2002. Every time this issue has been voted on here in the House, I would pretty much say that supporting funding for this programme has been an absolute priority, I would always say support for Members across the political spectrum, clearly the constitutional majority. And unfortunately, in the government's programming statement, I do not find support for this programme and support for the solution to the flood issues, and I want to say that the drought floods have not gone away. The floods are here, although they are at local level, but many of us have experienced this in their electoral regions during last year, and more likely from those, I would say, regional or national levels have shifted to those local levels in the form of lightning floods. So let me conclude by saying that the programme declaration of disappointment and fear that Czech agriculture, forestry and water management are not expecting very good times in the following period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u77	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch is now duly registered and Mr Jan Richter will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I want to take advantage of this opportunity, when a new government comes before us and asks us to trust, to open a debate on the future of Czech foreign European policy. But before I touch on these topics, I would like to stop at one thing, and that is the qualifications of Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský. Minister, I will not judge you by your education, nor will I judge you by your bachelor's work or your relationship with the V4 and other things that were in public space, as a relation to the Sudeten Němec, Israel and so on. However, I will evaluate you according to the criteria that you yourself set out on your blog when you spoke to one of your predecessors, namely Tomáš Petříček. You wrote in that blog: "In politics the power of personality is to decide." It's one of your criteria. Do you meet this criterion? Are you really the heavyweight of foreign policy? But you certainly do not meet your main criterion, Minister, and that is the democratic mandate from the elections. I am not the one who claims that this democratic mandate from the elections must be here, we have never advocated it, that is your criterion. That's what you set yourself up when you were talking about Minister Petříček in that blog. [[19.30 hours]] But let's talk about your government's future plans. The first thing that caught me in the government's programming statement and the coalition treaty is a review of relations with Russia and China. I think there's a great opportunity today to actually explain what you mean. And I want to have a very serious conversation. I will overlook the fact that, in the past parliamentary term after the Vrbětice case, we would say, for example, that we want to revise relations with Russia, you would be the first to think that we want to warm these relations, that we will retreat from the hrad, that we are servile towards the Kremlin and so on. That's why I'd like to know what that means. You, on the questions of Václav Moravec, if I understood correctly, said something with meaning that these relations should get warmer, and even said that a mutual meeting of foreign ministers could take place either in Prague or in Moscow. Do you really think this can happen - that I am returning to your criterion - that you are such a strong political person that you can meet with Mr Lavrov? Really? What do you want to achieve? I'd like to know some fahrplan in the revision of those plans. Do you want us to be cut off from that ridiculous list on which Russia is leading us after what we have worked hard to deal with the Vrbětice situation? I'd like to know what's gonna happen. Let's face it, our relations with Moscow are at a freezing point, and I say this with a calm conscience, because we as the Czech Republic have done nothing, and we haven't actually contributed to the fact that we're on that list. Then we have Čína. I'm more curious here about what this revision means, and I'd like to know what your attitude towards China is, and how our relations with China are today. I'm no advocate of the Chinese Communist regime, of course not. I think most of us here are aware of what's going on with the Ujgur, the repressed civil society in Hong Kong. Of course, we also know that Čína is sharpening its teeth in Taiwan. We know that. But let us also look at Lithuania, how you stepped on the People's Republic of China, and in her struggle with the People's Republic of China, she remained almost alone in the European Union. So let us not make enemies where there is no need, and let us approach our foreign policy pragmatically. Now I get to the cursed Visegrad Four. This has been mentioned several times today, and I would like to know what the attitude will be. In the program statement you have written that cooperation with V4 will be part of our links at all levels, and also speak with a single voice. That's what you wanted to change, it's in your programming statement that our government in foreign policy will speak with a single voice. Well, the Minister for European Affairs Bek says that V4 is actually overrated and that he was very surprised by the thesis on cooperation with V4 at all levels. He said he'd talk to the Prime Minister about it. At this point, I wonder what the Prime Minister has to say. I really want to know. In a similar vein, Minister Langšádlová spoke to me in the last parliamentary term in an interview with me and the Minister Langšádlová, who bowed to the fact that the V4 is actually rather toxic to us. Well, the new political deputy of the Minister of Foreign Affairs went further. In an interview with journalists, he literally said about the filth of the Orbánův regime. Is this really a diplomatic statement that should be called the top representative of Czech diplomacy? I don't think so. Well, what about - even if it is not, of course, a representative of the government, but it is a representative of the House - what about the statements made by President Adamová Pekarová? That's just like gold. You want to work with the V4 and all the people I've appointed you have done in the first place that you've offended them. Excellent! It doesn't look like you're talking in one voice. We can think what we want about Orbán, but saying about him and writing on networks that he de facto supported shooting people is absurd. Mrs. Adamová Pekarová should think about not presenting her party to the TOP 09, but representing the House, and saying such a statement to the Prime Minister who was democratically elected - and we might like it again or not - is simply beyond the big picture. She could say the same thing about Charles Michel, who is President of the European Council, because he spoke to the President of Kazakhstan in the same spirit and said the same thing to him. So he also de facto supported shooting at people? I don't think so. I will allow myself to the government, and especially to remind some ministers of the beauty of cooperation in that V4. We work together on topics that connect us, on which we have a consensus, such as migration quotas. I would like to point out that, for example, we would hardly have reached a halt to the migration quotas of Brussels without our V4 partners. Well, we're sending unflattering messages to the partners now. Again, I say, that's great! By the way, in the programming declaration, the new government clearly declares that we will promote access to migration without mandatory quotas. Yes, that is the right approach, and of course we approve of it. It will be important because we have a new migration pact on the table. It is a mixture of several legislations and it will be very important that we enforce what we want there and what you say in the programming statement. But if we piss off our closest partners that we can't do without, I don't know who's gonna stand up for us. Migration will be here because we know what's going on in Afghanistan, population growth in Africa, so we have to deal with this for the future, and it's important to find our partners in this. Another thing connected to the V4. Minister Bek wants to take the EU side in the disputes that the V4 states are having with the European Commission. However, we are not responsible for the problems that Member States have with the Commission. We can't whistle these disputes, we can't determine which side we're going to take. We can't tell the committee that we're going to take their side in that and in that case, and in the others, we can't. Let us not simply try to judge disputes ourselves. For the record, in 2020, the European Commission launched a 903 procedure. Some have ended up at the Court of Justice of the European Union, and I therefore ask: that is what we will sit as the Czech Republic, and we will go through all the 903 proceedings and say: And this is where we stand on the side of the European Commission and this is where we stand on the side of the state? It's ridiculous, isn't it? We've got the mechanisms, let's let them work. What about the European Commission's dispute with Portugal, Luxembourg and Belgium when they did not introduce measures against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market and which you also mention? The internal market you're referring to is very important in your government's programming statement. The European Union has mechanisms, the Commission has powers, the European Court of Justice of the European Union has powers. Then let's not be an arbiter. It's not our place. We cannot be an arbiter of European law, let alone national law in Poland, Hungary, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, in any other state. Now I'm gonna drop by a little bit on the concept you have in your programming statement, and that's Havel diplomacy. I'd like to explain more about what's behind the concept. I'm not saying that that concept offends me in any way, I'm sure it doesn't, but I'd like to know. When it comes to the accent of human rights, a greater accent than it has been so far, which, of course, has been linked to President Havel, I would like to know what the change will be. How will the Havel diplomacy be changed compared to the governments that were here before us, how will it be projected there? Or am I to understand that this is the return of our diplomacy to the 1990s? Well, the world is quite different now than it was in those years. The world has changed, the world order is different. So what does that mean? If we're to understand that we're going to expand developmental transformational cooperation, for example, I'm okay with it. But I'd like to know what it means, what to imagine under it. But as I say, I do not condemn that concept in any way whatsoever, the concept of Havel diplomacy. I don't have a problem with that, but the programming statement doesn't say what it is. Now I would like to clarify one more thing, which I think is very important, and that is the euro, ours - not ours, not yet, hopefully not even a common European currency. Minister Jurečka spoke several times about the government wanting to meet the Maastricht criteria - all right - and also about ERM II. This is also what you claim in your program because you want to allow companies to keep their accounts and tax records in euro. On the other hand, some government officials are shaking their heads over this. They say it won't, it won't, and so on. And now I want to know - and, above all, citizens should know - how it will be, whether or not the Czech Republic will be heading to the eurozone under your leadership. It would be fair to the citizens and to us to know what it will be. I have no problem meeting the Maastricht criteria. The Maastricht criteria show that finance is fine, that it works and, of course, it is a demonstration of sound finances. It's okay, of course. I'm sure I don't have a problem with that. [[19.40 hours]] But let us openly say, how many countries in the euro area are meeting these criteria today? After all, if we transfer to the eurozone, we will be together for their debts. [[answer]] And now I'm gonna get to the debts. Our new government is suffering very much from debt, which is 43.5 per cent relative to GDP. But what about Řecko's debt? 200 per cent of GDP, Italy's debt - 170 per cent of GDP! And these countries, let us not fool ourselves that at some point in the near future they will pay off these debts. With the transition to the euro area, of course, we risk them asking for another financial injection one beautiful day. And who's gonna pay for that? We're gonna pay for it because we're gonna be part of it. That's why my question to the euro is here. Now I would just stop for a short time - and I will be done - your programming statement says: "We will promote intensive Czech-German relations across the spectrum" and so on. Yes, I agree. Of course, I don't think any of us have a problem with that. But from the whole government statement, from that programming statement, I thought of Austria, which I find weird, because I think that Austria, if we're going to name Germany, we should focus on Austria, too. Here, with regard to European affairs, you have written here, and I will not read it whole, I will read only the beginning: "We will promote systematic preparation of the Czech position on individual proposals at European level." I am a member of the European Committee, I was a member of the European Committee in the past period. Of course, we were given framework positions to the press, so I can imagine what they look like, I know how they're processed. And at this point, I wonder what the change will be. It's nicely written again, but what's the systematic change in the framework position? What's gonna change? What do you want to change to better inform citizens? It's nicely written, yes, we'll better inform citizens, we'll do it systematically. But then how? It doesn't say that at all. And here's the last thing I have to stop by. "We will support such a reform of the EU, which will give priority to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and ensure that Member States' powers do not rise to a democratic deficit." I agree with that, too. I don't have a problem with that either. But as this relates, because today we have the Minister of Foreign Affairs, we have the Minister for the European Union, they are both from the same coalition, and the coalition had in the programme that they would like to transfer more powers that are decided by a two qualified majority under the vote, so they have actually taken unanimity on the issues, the important issues where it is today, and that is not quite going together. If that's in the programming statement, that's the way it goes, and the pirát and the starosta have retreated from this nonsense in my opinion, that's fine. Finally, let me say that from what I have read in your programming statement, foreign policy is actually based on a permanent, valid concept from 2015, which is good. Our foreign policy is supposed to be predictable, and it should certainly continue to be pragmatic. If I get answers to these questions, I will be only happy, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u79	Thank you. Mr Jan Richtr is now duly signed in and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Yes, I apologise, please wait, Mr Member, and I give the floor to Mr Robert Králíček with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u80	Madam President, Government, dear survivors, those who have remained here. I would just like to say that I am very sorry that Minister Lipavský completely ignored Mr. Bžoch's speech. I do not think that Jarda Bžoch's speech was aggressive, it was factual and constructive, and Mr Lipavský discussed it with his colleague. I consider it the height of arrogance, and I am very sorry. Four years ago, we sat here until 4:30 in the morning, and Mr Stanjura, Jurečka and others' speeches were far more aggressive and emotional, so I think that at least the relevant minister could have the respect and the respect of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u81	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Richtr has the floor now. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u82	Thank you. Good evening, Madam President, honourable Government, Members. To begin with, Madam President, I would take the liberty of coming to you. You know exactly my name. My name is Richter, and your name is Richterová. So please don't call me Richtr, I don't call Mrs. Richtrová either. Thank you. I'd like to start with my introduction. And now I'd like to focus on the area of sport in the context of a government statement. With the support of sport in the Czech Republic and the National Sports Agency, it is the same as with other promises of a new coalition. When the current coalition parties were in opposition, we were constantly hearing criticisms and reports that they had a plan as it would be if they got to power. Let me sum it up in a simple sentence of one. It sounds like we know everything and we're gonna do it better than you are, everything's wrong. When this situation occurred, it turns out that there is somehow a lack of a plan for this current coalition, and again it applies in all areas - the budget, the solution to inflation, the energy crisis, the covidum, and so I can continue. However, I do not want to criticize everything, these are extremely difficult situations, I understand, but they have in common that their solutions are not simple. Rather, they point out how the recent strong words toward our government proved to be completely empty. I haven't read anywhere how it's really going to be with sports. The National Sports Agency handles over 15 000 applications annually, especially from small and children's sports clubs, which are now in doubt because they do not know the clear budget for 2022. We have a budget make-up that we warned about, but the answer was that there would be no problems. I was amused by the distribution of funds under the PirSTAN electoral program, and that's when it appeared in a passage that you would distribute subsidies in sport. I can't imagine under the word "sport" how you would distribute subsidies, because I think the funds are being distributed completely directly and transparently. It's not in the government's programming statement anymore, and I'm glad for that. But the government's programming statement is written directly by the distribution of funds to clubs directly and transparently, but for God's sake, this is already happening, so I don't know how much more transparent they should be distributed when they are controlled by these finances, the National Sports Agency under the Sub-Committee for Sport and under the control of the SAO. You want to update the NSA's investment programs, but there is no indication of the amount of this support and update anywhere. You want multi-annual funding for sport and pursuit of multi-source funding. How old? A year, two, five, or just a few months, like in case of a salary freeze? I can't read that. The programme declaration shall include the share of the authorities in sports activities and investment. Again, these are things that are common, those that happen normally. I can't imagine any club or association would have worked without the help of the government. It's just that the authorities have been involved a long time ago. The programme statement mentions setting non-investment programmes more easily with the possibility of drawing from the beginning of the year. Here I believe that this year would not even be possible with the budgetary provisional, and as an example, I note that non-investment subsidies were already paid last year at the beginning of February. The government's programming statement copies the coalition agreement on all points, but from my point of view, there is a fundamental problem in that much has changed since the coalition agreement was established. In particular, it is in the field of energy, when energy costs have skyrocketed to clubs and associations, and the government's programming statement does not respond to this at all. There is no mention of how they will support directly clubs and associations where they have children so that they do not freeze to us in winter or worse so that they do not sport at all. This concerns sports, which, of course, work in the summer, but they need halls on the playgrounds. But during the winter it is necessary to train in the lobby and there are lots of sports that have only halls for its activities. We know that the help that the government has prepared and this House has approved will unfortunately only touch a very small group of people, certainly not clubs and associations, but for them it can often be a deadly blow. As a person from a sports environment, I perceive a time bomb, which is for sport, like for other sectors, an increase in energy. Some sports areas already have invoices where energy prices have increased by up to 500 percent, thus reducing traffic. This situation could be helped by a subsidy call for Operation and Maintenance, which the National Sports Agency cannot write because of the budgetary commission. The government's programme statement in the field of sport either states an existing and functioning state, or it is empty and non-specific phrases that do not guarantee funding for clubs and associations. They have been paralyzed in their activities since the beginning of the year. Many sports sites are on the brink of complete cessation and thousands of children will have nowhere to play sports just because the new coalition is unable to tell how much money will go into sports. Our government approved 7.5 billion for 2022, and this has not yet been a problem with high energy prices. Not even 8 billion will be enough for this year. Support for children, coaches and small sports clubs is the main priority. And we all know that, I suppose, we also agree that the movement of children, especially now after these difficult covid years, is absolutely essential. [[19.50 hours]] Finally, I would like to ask a few specific questions to the government or to the Prime Minister under which the NSA belongs. I miss - and I would like to know the answer before the vote on government trust - why isn't there a specific financial amount in the programming declaration you want to support in order for clubs to be able to count on it? What will be the direct aid to clubs with the energy price increase mentioned? I miss the statement, and that's pretty crucial, missing the promotion of sports handicapped. What's the reason it didn't show up? In conclusion, I have not read anywhere how the state representation and Olympic sports will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u83	Thank you, honourable Member. I take note of the warning of the preferred pronunciation of the surname. I beg Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, who is duly registered, and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u84	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, he's gone somewhere, but I'm sure he can hear me outside. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I have, of course, read the entire programming statement of this government, but I would like to take a closer look at the area of culture. For a long time I have devoted myself to culture in the past in the position of the Governor and currently in the Committee of the Regions, also as an old-timer, and I am very much looking forward to working together in the Sub-Committee on Culture. Surely we agree that our country can boast of a diverse cultural heritage, reaching its roots far into the past. We can be proud of the whole pládu celebrities of the world's culture, not only from the past, but also from the present. I think we can rightly consider ourselves a nation with high cultural literacy. We can lean on great professionals and extensive infrastructure. The major problem of contemporary culture in our country is its considerable underfinancing and the great dependence of the cultural and creative sector on public budgets. This is closely linked, despite the past, to the increased salaries, to the lack of appreciation of workers in culture. Covid as such gave the culture a big blow, and now, according to the government's programming statement and some of its actions, this government can be a disaster. We are witnessing that despite high inflation, state-paid employees in culture did not receive a raise this year. Thus, with rising inflation, they will have much less money in their wallets. It's mostly heartbreakers, but it's a matter of time before they start leaving. I ask, Minister, what are you going to do about it? I don't think anything, because the government's decision is clear, you haven't added a penny. Clouds are thus drawn over the cultural scene, and so a lot of the good that has succeeded in the past, even though there have been coronavirus measures, is at risk. The new government counts on cuts and tightening belts at a time when culture already bleeds. Currently, it is very bad news for all cultural institutions regardless of whether they fall within the public or private sector, in particular budgetary make-up. This practically stopped all the support programmes that cultural institutions could use. In the same way, virtually all planned investments are suspended. This can have long-term, sometimes permanent consequences. Moreover, the new government completely ignores the protection of cultural monuments as such. There is no idea of long-term financial plans for the restoration of cultural infrastructure throughout the Czech Republic, including the restoration of conservation buildings. In the program declaration you will find nothing about the real support of owners of real estate monuments and buildings, both with and without conservation. On the contrary, the government has committed itself to choosing a national bird, but I will no longer comment here because it has been mentioned widely before me. The culture sector is definitely not negligible in the Czech Republic. More than 2 percent of all domestic employees work in this field. In absolute terms, there are more than 112,000 professional workers and almost 24,000 volunteers. Culture itself can generate profit, but it needs support for investment, renovation and reconstruction, which are usually very expensive because of the emphasis on preserving historical values. Of course, the State is not normally able to bail out all investments in culture, certainly not to the extent that would be necessary. However, they must largely participate in them because they are national wealth that we have inherited from our ancestors and we do not have the right to neglect them. Due to planned cuts, we risk losing in many cases historical values that will be irreversibly lost for future generations. Although the new government's programming statement mentions the need for funding for culture, we cannot trust that much given the practical actions of this government. Minister, where is at least a hint of the idea of multiannual funding for cultural institutions and grant programmes? As the governor, I have always supported and tried to initiate projects that would bring back life in forgotten and often semi-disbanded monuments. It is not always easy and determination alone is not enough. If we look at the structure of the financing of culture from public sources, then 27.8% of the money from state budgets goes into it, the region is equally involved in 27.2%. The greatest burden lies thus on municipalities whose investments cover the needs of the cultural sector of 45 percent. I consider it necessary to strengthen the support programmes for regional projects by at least one third and to stand up for the preservation of the cultural heritage of the countryside. But you will not know what the government's attitude is. While emphasis on patronage and sponsorship may be beneficial for some particular cultural activities, the amounts we are talking about will certainly not save the culture as a whole. The private sector participates in the financing of culture every year in the order of lower hundreds of millions of crowns, of which roughly a third is used as advertising, and approximately a similar sum comes from private pockets for audiovisual and interactive equipment. The private sector certainly deserves a great thank you, but this will certainly not replace the cuts that the government is counting on this year. He's a big unknown as the great cuts of culture await. Or will we be surprised, Minister, that there will be no cuts in culture? Private support is now worth hundreds of millions of crowns. At the same time, we need tens of billions in culture. Moreover, the support and benefit of sponsorship and patronage is mentioned in your statement very generally. What's it gonna look like? Is she gonna be interesting to anybody? The lack of finance can be dealt with in many different ways. Naturally, there is a natural link between culture and tourism. This can be helped by a more intense and creative presentation of our culture abroad, whether it would be done through the CzechTourism agency or other channels, it would also be beneficial thanks to the multiplier effect that would have an impact on the entire economy. I also lack this rope in the government's programming statement. Lately, film and game tourism is also very important when people from all over the world are looking for places known from successful films or computer games. Does the incoming government count on this? I ask, Minister, have you resigned from a closer link of culture to tourism? I'm not gonna find out from the program statement. We are witnessing that the sights have been dead for most of the year, forgive me for this expression. And yes, there are buses with tourists and queues waiting for tour routes, but that's it. Tourism is not all-savory either. It is necessary to return to historical buildings where possible social life associated with local and community associations. [[20.00 hours]] It is not possible to ignore the further training of workers and the involvement of modern especially audiovisual and interactive technologies. There is certainly a need to involve much more private subjects in the culture, but the state should also contribute more. Our aim should be to increase the cost of culture to at least 1,5 percent of the state budget. I wish the new government fulfilled at least the promised 1%. But I think it's more of a chimera than a believable reality. The previous government included monument care, live art or culturally creative industries in the National Recovery Plan. What's the difference? You won't know that from the programming statement either. In general, better use is needed of EU programmes aimed at culture. The need for more transparent and broader funding affects all areas of culture, from monuments to theatres, exhibition halls to, for example, film production. For example, it is necessary to consider changing the financing of the State Cinematography Fund in favour of domestic production. Transformation of the State Cinema Fund into the State Fund of Audiovision, unless it brings about a fundamental change in content and it's just formal, is of no use, we probably agree on that. We also agree on the continuation of support for film productions, the so-called film incentives introduced by the last eight years by the government. The question is whether the amount of film incentives from the new government's pen will be competitive in view of their developments in the outside world is not clear at the moment either. Of course, we cannot do without legislative changes. This concerns, in particular, the anchoring of the status of the artist, the need to amend the conservation law and the creation of a new law, which will regulate the system of financing public cultural institutions. The amendment of the copyright law you have in your programming declaration is in the House. I'm asking, does the new government want to cosmetically modify it and pass it off as its work, or does it overdo it, and all the good stuff out of it, so it doesn't happen to help the authors? The status of the artist: the benefit of the law codifying the status of the artist should primarily be the higher social protection of workers in culture and artists themselves. I don't think the government's going to continue preparing him either. Is the protection of professional artists and workers in culture, especially those who are not in permanent employment, not important to the government? We don't know, don't look for the answer in the program statement, it's not there. What I also lack in the government's programming statement is any financial support for the youth discount system, seniors, socially excluded and handicapped citizens. Does it count or does it not count on the continuation of the digitalisation of the intangible cultural heritage of libraries and film funds? There is also no word about their free access, which was planned. From long-term statistics, we can see that culture has developed in a positive direction in recent years. Exhibition halls, museums, festivals, theatre performances, and more and more sights were made available to the public. The salary assessment of workers in culture has also been increased. This trend must be continued, not buried, which will be a natural consequence of the current government policy. There is a need for greater involvement of associations, associations, cultural institutions, self-government and media. This, however, is done badly in a situation where the covid wound is replaced by a de facto cut-off from investment and aid from the State. In order not to criticize, I'm coming to the end of my speech, and I like positive endings, so I must say I'm pleasantly surprised by Prime Minister Fiala's statement -- here he is... It is not here, it is a pity - that the reconstruction project of the historical prison in Uherské Hradiště will be implemented, despite the fact that it was started by the previous Prime Minister Babiš and his government. I hope that such an approach will be maintained in other initial projects, and not only in the field of culture. Culture is a field that offers an immense number of opportunities, it is necessary to use them effectively, not only because of the economic effect, but mainly because of the greater education and literacy of children and adults. This should benefit not only the current society, but also the future generations. It is no longer true that a hungry artist will create the most brilliant works. Today, we are living in a different time, and the new government should be aware. Starvation devastates our diverse and valuable cultural heritage forever. I think it is clear from my speech that I cannot support the government, and I think it is also clear why. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u85	Thank you. Mr Juchelka is now duly registered, Mr Drahoslav Ryba will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u86	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, Prime Minister, honourable Government, honourable Members. Just to begin with, two comments, because we - and I am very sorry - have thinned through a number of coalition MPs, first of all, and secondly, I regret that during this day we have already heard, after five hours of de facto, from the Prime Minister's mouth, that he is here... - and I won't say that vulgar word. I am terribly sorry - I think the Prime Minister could comment on this, as he meant, and perhaps apologize to the legislature. But now, let's go briefly to the program... I would ask the Members not to yell at me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u87	Yes, the call for peace is justified, please, if possible, let us maintain the dignity of this action. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u88	Now briefly to the Government's programming statement on social and family policy. Many of the resolutions and points in the statement, I can say that he is close to me, and certainly to all of us. We may disagree on a few things, but in the vast majority, we do. After all, who would have something against support for families, short-term jobs, greater support for services for the smallest children, a reduction in the tax burden on working parents and so on, I think really nobody. I am known to care about the areas of social and family policy, and I place a really strong emphasis on it. After all, during the last parliamentary term, a number of great things have been done - and I thank you very much for the support of the then opposition Members, who are now in the ranks of the current coalition - to which I am very proud personally, tax bonuses on the children that we have the best in the world, after increasing the support for prevention in families to CZK 150,000, which is still very little, and preventing the breakdown of families would really want to strengthen it, whether in terms of management, marketing or financial. As an opposition Member, I would like to continue to renaming maternity or parental leave for mothers to care, because I also understand the importance of the gesture itself very much. I have compared the programs, both the government's programming statements and the five-calice program, and I have also looked into the last programme of the YES movement. Let's face it, there are no big differences in the area that primarily burns me as a politician. It is also logical, many of us, especially us, who have a family and social policy and social affairs at heart, see the pain of the system for a long time and also perceive limited solutions. We can name our hopes nicely, we're good at visions, but reality often wants to cut into the wound quite clearly, especially if an investigation is being advocated, which suggests this government already in the preamble to its programming statement. How, then, does this government cut into it? No way in the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, that's what I'm saying. As part of the government's programming statement, it's a nice coat caress, and I don't see a single hint of where the government wants to save money in this department. On the contrary, he says very nice things to invest in, but those full-fledged family and social visions will not return to the state for a long time, perhaps even in a few generations. We see this on a family phenomenon where, right after the revolution, thirty-three years ago, we wouldn't have thought that our ongoing pension system could collapse in the future due to a low birth rate. A few years later, however, we could and should have seen the problem, and I dare say that the area of pensions was devoted enough to the past government, but as everyone knows at least a little bit of a pragmatic individual thinking this way in our country, without children and support of demography, or birth rate, it simply won't work. [[20.10 hours]] The family should become an exclusive partner of the government, not a ball by the foot, which needs to be saved by crumbs from the package budget. But now we hear it's to be saved. Let's look at the programming statement. "We'll expand our services to children." That's an investment. Will it be cut? "Let's keep the children's groups." Investment. Will it be cut? "We will support services with the care of the smallest children." Investment. Will it be cut? It sounds great, but it's all cargo stuff, it's not an investigation. And it is necessary, because, of course, even these marginal matters can help families. Furthermore, the Government's programming statement: "We will support shorter jobs, including favourable taxation'. It's a cargo of the state. Will it be cut? "A discount on insurance contributions." State cargo. Will it be cut? "We will increase overall flexibility of the Labour Code in the interests of employers and employees. Public administration and organisations will set an example in the offer of reconciliation of care and work." That's a cargo too. So I'm wondering where you want to save money? Again, it's the right thing to do, investment in families. But they won't be back for a long time, and I hope that this government will not bluntly cut their functional and well-targeted support. I will be happy to personally support such actions, and I will also participate in possible solutions. What I miss there is any revision of the dosage system and specific steps to make it. The fact that there will be more online operators doesn't really rip us out. Will there be a payment and a housing contribution, as the coalition of the CAO has in the electoral program, or not, because the pirát have always opposed this merger? What am I supposed to think of under the government's programming declaration? "Will we remove the breaking points from batch and tax systems in order to keep people from being trapped in poverty and motivated more to work"? Is this the review of the social benefits of our generous social system? So what exactly do the turning points look like? Do you already know that, or did you just wrap this government's programming statement in a nice five-wheel bow so that none of the partners get excited? I have read strong statements, big words, general phrases, so the government's programming statement is full of concepts such as flexible jobs, greater possibilities, simplification, enlargement, sufficient, specific needs, uniform system, development, change in the name of the MPSV, increase the limit, simplify the conditions of labour inflow, available advice for indebtion and so on. One of them would just fall off his chin, but I know how it is. In the last government, I fought for many things, too, and winning doesn't come automatically. You also need support from the opposition. What really bothers me about the government's programming statement is, on the one hand, the formal renaming of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the Ministry of Family, Social and Labour Affairs. In principle, nothing against it, but in correlation with the text: "We will focus on the specific needs of single parents, families with more children and families with a disabled member. " There are more points of similar wording in both coalition party programmes and in this and slightly delegated terms and in other points of the programming declaration. My dear colleagues, that's the mistake I have in the long run. A multiple family is included in the group problem, into the social spectrum, a spectrum of interest in those who need help, but it is exactly the opposite. Our state needs the help of a family, healthy, stable and strong. I think it's eloquent when the self-servers appear first in the quoted passage of the programming statement. We know social and demographic trends. Many have butter on our heads, but where is the prevention of the breakup of marriage and families? Where's the first aid? Coming in with help, when it's all gone, it's like cleaning a burnt building from the ashes. I completely lack genuinely functional offers to help families to stand again on a well-deserved pedestal, so that a functioning family with children and open to having more children is valued as the greatest wealth that the state has, which is not subject to inflation, is not a threat to stability in any sense, it is simply the largest capital. Family's not supposed to be a social problem. That is why, at the level of last Prime Minister Babiš's government, we may have been thinking about making a government agent for the family. In principle, any state's penetration into families needs to be reduced to a minimum. Much of the support that the government's programming declaration refers to is highly saturated at the level of the civil non-profit sector. It would be great if the government's programme also showed how financial support for projects and organisations, which are specifically and not, will be distributed in the area of family and social affairs, because they are focused, for example, on advertising ideology instead of measurable concrete aid. I don't think we need to develop this point more. I don't want paid gender training for state and nonprofit devices, I want money for handicapped staff or for children in club schools. What I am also missing in the Government's programming declaration or not clearly defined there is the issue of socially excluded localities. At this point, there are about 700 people, hundreds of thousands of people live in them, and mayors and mayors of cities could actually tell stories. One of the points of the SPOLU programme, which has also been reflected in the government's programme statement, is now being shrunk: "We will not allow the standard of living of vulnerable groups to be reduced, but neither will the abuse of the system. " The danger group is the lower middle class. Yes, that is what is most important for the stability of the economy and the country, and yesterday you supported aid against energy poverty only for the low-income ones. But why can't I support this government with my vote? Because this disparate five-calice opinion is based on emotion, maybe on the attitude you've been putting up with the entire last term, the entire election campaign, and you're continuing it, and thanks to it, you're splitting the company into two camps. It is selfishness, animosity, a grudge, perhaps an irrational hatred that is a building stone and a binder of this disparate government, and it will hold you for maybe four years. This emotion spilled into your five-calice so strongly that you were able to connect with the pirát, who again made one of their crucial coming-outs last week, that some of them are so-called Democrat communists. They then backed back, but only those whose activism melted away in these benches. They have a policy based on the ideas of Marxism, and they don't hide it. They're not hiding it! All you have to do is use Google and see for example the mladý pirátstvo entries. This modern group of his fans is conveniently referred to as neomarxists. It's not a label from me, but a description of the specific situation from last week. And in this government, as we know, they are not alone. Let us remember that last parliamentary term, the minority government of the ANO movement and the ČSSD was backed up by the votes of the KSČM and we were blamed. I've had a few sleepless nights, too. It was entirely pragmatic because of the entire House, because there was no one else. It was a stalemate, a voice of reason. But Petr Fiala's government is the first government after the revolution to open the doors of Straka's academy to these ideas. In secret, and she didn't have to. Hopefully, it'll catch up. He doesn't have my vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u89	Thank you. The speech raised a point of fact. prosit, with the factual remark of Mr Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u90	I'm just really gonna react. It's a shame you didn't get off like this when it was discussed here that your chairman was a former member of the KSČ and that he was supposed to be working with StB. I beg you, 140 million Babišův's label got it. Put it back in the budget. We're missing the money, 420 billion in minus the deficit last year. That would be something to help this country. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u91	Thank you for keeping time. It has now raised another factual point, Mr Juchelka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u92	I foolishly thought Mr. Michálek here would come to tell us what a democratic communist meant. I'm also interested, maybe we have it here in the government, so we know who we're dealing with, because they're gonna be sitting for us from this day forward, or they've been sitting for a month at Straka Academy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u93	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Drahoslav Ryba is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u94	Good evening, Madam President, dear government, dear colleagues. I, like my colleagues, have also read the Government's programming statement very closely, and I must say that I have a number of reservations about it. Some of the topics I miss in this programming statement quite much, some I cannot agree with, and some of them are really a lot, they are so general that I do not know what the intention of the new government will be. Before I get to the issue - and I would like to say that I will really only focus on the issue that I hope to understand, because I want to address the issue of internal security where I have been working for 35 years - I will still return to the resignation of Mr. Police President, but a little differently. I'm not here to discuss who he was talking to, who he was talking to, what he said to, but I just want to make one comment. There's a Service Act, and the Service Act says that all the head of the Security Corps are set up for five years. The law says this on purpose so that every political change doesn't change the heads of the security forces, and I think that's a good thing. On the other hand, I completely understand Mr. Police President has resigned because not having the support of his own minister is wrong for both the police president and, of course, for the choir that he runs. I would just like to say so much on this issue, and I am about to leave this issue to myself that I have had the honour of working with the President of the Police, with whom I have had the honour of working for three years, because he is a person who is absolutely direct, who is absolutely apolitical and has always been, and who has the support of almost everyone, possibly all police officers and has, and does not always have the support of police unions. So I think it's a shame, especially for the police, that such a person is leaving because he really lived for the police, and it's a shame for the citizens of this country and a bad signal for the future. And now for the government's own programming statement. What am I missing? Some of you may remember that we used to learn about a professor, Mr. Maslow, a psychologist from America who said there was a Maslowův pyramid of values. He says that the highest priority, and it is certainly so, have values, human values and human needs that are the basic ones. Among them we rank food, drink, but also have a place to sleep and so on, and the second highest priority is safety. Security, as we all know, consists of two parts, part internal security and external security. I must commend the government very much that it has given quite clear rules on defence as to how defence will continue to evolve. The first two points are that defense will increase spending, the government will increase defense spending. He's talking about how it's gonna go down. Unfortunately, we won't find anything like that in the area of Homeland Security. I don't know why it is - if it's because the government wants to go back to the cuts that were here in 2011, 2012, 2013 under the Nečasův government, when the cops didn't have the bullets, the firemen had to beg the authorities to give them 20 liters of diesel, there's a contribution of 100,000 on diesel, so they could go out at all. I hope that is not the case, that I am wrong, that this is merely an omission in the government's programming declaration, but we will finally see that when we draw up the budget. Another issue that seems to me to be at least controversial is the indent - and I would like to read it to quote precisely: "By the end of 2022, we will establish a position of advisor to national security at the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic as the above-ranking coordinator of hybrid threats, misinformation" - and now watch out - "other serious above-ranking security issues. I just want to point out that every transport agreement is a major issue, because at least two departments meet with it, the Ministry of Health - or organisations that fall under the Ministry of Health - and which fall under the Ministry of the Interior. And I have to go back to 1997 at this point. Why? As you know, there were large floods in the Czech Republic in 1997. After the floods, they were evaluated and found out why they were so fatal. Why did more than 50 people die? Why was there billions of damage? In this evaluation, the analysis found that the elements that were involved in these events were to coordinate Civil Protection, then Civil Protection, which fell into the Ministry of Defence. And there's been a confrontation between two, I'd say, with a fundamental concept. At the time it was called that one is a complex rescue system, and the other is an integrated rescue system. The complex rescue system was built on the fact that there will still be an organization here, and it doesn't matter if the organization, or some enlightened coordinator, controls the components of the rescue system, or if we create an integrated rescue system, where there is no roof above it, where exactly the competences, tasks are divided, both in tactical and operational, and strategic levels, and this system - in the end it was decided - was adopted. I understand that, and all the time, there's been a lot of efforts to get back to that complex rescue system that was still here in 1997 and that resulted in dozens of deaths. I hope that this is not how the coordinator is built, that you do not want to do this coordinator, because we would have returned before the 1997 period, and the practice that was here after the year when even more floods occurred, whether in 2000, 2002 and others, has shown that the integrated rescue system works much better than the previous system. I am not saying that there is nothing to improve, not saying that there is no need to analyse and return to the crisis laws that have been here since 2000. But I'm a little concerned that we already know that there's gonna be such a coordinator here today. I was deliberately pointing out that there is talk of over-the-counter security issues and their coordination, and I would really hate for it to slide back to that last outdated system that meant dozens of lives. So that's the second point I wanted to talk about. The third point is, I quote again, to say exactly: "We will introduce systematic preparation of citizens and associations for crisis situations, courses for high school students, and voluntarily for the public." You can quite agree with that point. What amazes me, though, is that we're talking about high school students and we're talking about introducing a system. The system is already in place. I understand that the Minister of the Interior, through Madam President, has not been able to get acquainted with the whole spread of things and strategies that exist, but I just want to point out that over the past nine years, and that we have two years of pandemic, where almost nothing could be done in this area, or at least, the Fire Rescue Corps has set up a commission, set up an inter-ministerial committee on this issue, pushed a number of topics into the framework education programmes and then into school education programmes and deal with all categories of population, with an emphasis, of course, on education in schools. So just so we know, nine years from now, teacher education and kindergarten management, 13,394 children, preschool education... Sorry, education of teachers and management of kindergarten, elementary and secondary schools, so they were educators - we trained 13 394 educators. Preschool education - 112 472 children in kindergartens. Primary and secondary schools - 414 779 children. Excursions at stations, that's common - 838,000. Preparation of adult population - 335 221 people. Seniors - we deal with them too - 33 892. Persons with disabilities - 9 203 such persons. [[20.30 hours]] This activity was carried out by clouds on the basis of the media, only this year, sorry, it is last year, only in 2020 because I do not have the results for 2021 yet, there were 190 posts for radio, 91 posts for Czech television, which were broadcasted, 212 articles in printed media and so on. This issue is taken very systematically through the whole Czech population. What do you need? That doesn't mean there's nothing to improve. What do you need? In the long term, we are trying to bring the issue, which is now fragmented in individual subjects, into one subject, where the issue of the protection of the population will be, but also the issue of defence, but also the issue of health. Because we have examined through the Czech School Inspection and how it is with the level when these topics are so fragmented, and unfortunately it is nothing famous. So I believe we can work through this someday. Well, that's just an explanation. And the last point I want to open is the point where it is said: "By the end of 2022, we will process strategic materials that will help the development and long-term concept of security forces, and with effect from 2024 we will amend the Security Corps Service Act and the GIBS Act. " This issue is very lively in the congregation, and the discussion is really huge. In the last week, I have had several hundred phone calls or questions about how this government wants to intervene on the issue of the Service Act, and whether it wants to address the claims or how. It's a huge problem, because those members are really worried and are threatening to leave the police and the firemen, if they were to do it in some way insensitively, and notabene had it not been explained to them in time and perhaps it didn't tell them what it was really meant and what it would be. I've got the numbers from the Fire Rescue Corps. The person entitled to the allowance shall have 52 per cent of the members. If these members decide to leave the congregation, it will be destabilization of the congregation as well, and it will probably be similar to the police, so it is a very sensitive issue. And I would ask the Minister - if nothing, my colleague, Vice-President Jana Vildumetzová, has already asked the question - to calm the situation in the congregations, if he can say how he intends in this area, I will be very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u95	Beautiful evening. That was Mr. Drahoslav Ryba. It brought up factual points. At this point, I am inviting Mr Igor Hendrych to the speaker's desk and giving him my word. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I appreciate the speech of my previous speaker and sign it. I just want to add one important thing that I don't think has come up yet. Homeland Security - security forces, firefighters, police, prison services, Customs and so on - got a raise. They got seven hundred, which is definitely better than nothing, even if it's not enough, we know it. But the city officers were forgotten. City police and municipal police and municipal police have not been added at all, while they are very important helpers in smaller and larger cities for the Police of the Czech Republic, and once again they have been forgotten. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u97	Thank you. That was a point of fact. And at this point, we have another factual point. I ask that Mr Pavel žáček come to the speaker's desk. I give him my word. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to hear colleagues from YES that they are able to speak coherently, that we are not only hearing the scream of Prime Minister Babiš, today of course in a different position. I hope that these arguments and that this argument and communication will last in the committees where it belongs, I look forward to the debate. And I'd like to, I'd encourage us to transfer it there. I think it is necessary to mention this police president, because that is a matter which, in my opinion, is overly politicized. I also had a conversation with Mr. Police President, before he was a candidate for Home Secretary at the time, I think we've been sitting for a long time. We discussed a number of problems with the Police of the Czech Republic. And if the police president asks me if he should remain in office, I would say yes. I would say that he should remain to fight for his congregation so that, in a situation where he was in office on the last day, he would not respond and send the signal prematurely through the unfortunate Twitter to continue representing the congregation in order to reach an agreement with the new Home Secretary. I think that would be quite appropriate. And in a situation that I'd consider normal, it wouldn't have happened what's happening today, and we've heard it for the last time now that the exit is being politicized unnecessarily. Mr. Police President has made his decision as Secretary of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, and we have to deal with this reality. And we're also struggling with it. I think it's gonna be okay. But again, I look forward to the debate on the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u99	Thank you for the factual point which raised further factual points. I have three speakers registered here now. At the moment, on a factual note, I invite Mr Robert Králíček, Alena Schillerová and Patrik Nacher will prepare. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u100	Good evening again. I would just like to ask my colleague Žáček, through Madam President, do not insult us, do not insult us! It's undignified of you specifically and your government. Firstly, I ask you, none of us comment on how coalition MPs or ministers speak. I don't think that says anything about the level of your government. Or maybe he's testifying... And second, to the police president. Don't be mad at me, it was just political pressure before he got into office, and after the meeting, will the police president leave? It's worth it, so we have a demonstration like four years ago. Then don't say it's a good thing. Don't tell me it's a good thing! Or are you saying that this is a new political culture, that the minister meets before the appointment and then the police president resigns? What's the signal to the security forces? These people don't know what to do, they don't know what to expect. Who else will the minister fire? Then don't say it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u101	Now, on a point of fact, I invite the President of the House of Deputies, Mrs Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u102	Thank you. I wanted to say something similar, but I will extend my words to you, Mr. Ambassador, through Madam Vice-President. My colleague, Mr králíček, has already said that for me. Don't insult anyone, not our chairman, not any of us. Did you hear any of us here insulting any of you? We haven't offended anyone. So stick to it. We're debating the government's programming statement. So please, through Madam Vice-President, don't smoke us if we have to keep anything on the committee or not. Leave it to us. We're discussing things here. And I think that we were just talking about the issues of the government's programming statement. You won't find anything in our words that doesn't have anything to do with it. I've been sitting here careful all day listening to my colleagues. So please don't coach us. And if you're telling us here, through the Vice-President, what is or isn't to be on the committee, ask Mr. Police President and ask him. Ask him a question. Because I, as Treasury Secretary, had Customs under me. Underneath them - they are a separate armed file, but falling into the Ministry of Finance, and I honestly became acquainted with the agenda of the armed forces through the Customs Administration. I know how it's a closed and sensitive world, how there's rules, how there's guys, how it pays, if someone's done it, they haven't done it. [[20.40 hours]] I only knew Mr. Police President from work meetings. I know he had great respect for his colleagues, he was active in active service, he worked out - and that's the most valuable thing in the armed forces, that's how they always evaluate it - just so-called from the sidewalk, the public, and now what happened. That's not supposed to happen. That's why the Armed Forces Act is, that's why it's a five-year period, and you, when you're so active, through Madam Vice-President... [[President: Madam President, time.]] ... so invite him and ask him what happened and what he learned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u103	The time has passed for a factual remark. Thank you. Another one with a point of fact, please, Mr Patrik Nacher. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u104	Thank you. Well, I have to respond to a fellow Žáček, too. I really don't understand your reaction. We want ministers to answer here. Instead, you answer in fact here and insult us that you can finally hear that someone else can speak when you know well that it is built on this whole thing, that coalition MPs always speak less and opposition speaks more. It's in the deputies, it's here in the Chamber of Deputies. So be it, today is also proof. The opposition speaks more, and so far only you have spoken from the coalition. So if I could get back to you on that, we also can't hear if coalition MPs can talk. It's really not... it's not classy, don't be mad at me. There's no content, there's no level. Let's talk about these things, the questions we've asked here. It would be good if the ministers answered. I gave it to one of them in those notes, my questions, and it would be better than learning who can talk to a microphone and who can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u105	Thank you. It raised two further factual points, so I would like to ask for a speaker's desk at the moment - Mr Pavel Žáček. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u106	Thank you. I will, of course, respond to that. It's like there's a short memory in here. I think we all remember how it was, including how the previous police presidents changed. The previous one, who resigned from his post before General Švejdar, left in the same situation, or in another situation - left under the minister, who was in office, while here the general unfortunately decided on the last day he was in office, it was his free decision. I think, since you have the stars here, you have to endure something, and in my opinion, he should have stayed and had the police, very important, to fight on for his choir. That's the kind of thing I'd expect from the head of the police force. He created the situation for us - yes, there were some factors that we do not know, such as the influence of Minister Hamáček, your coalition partner, about which nothing has yet been said - and unfortunately the situation has turned out that way. We're dealing with it, you can trust that we're dealing with it. And you can count on us to handle this on the Security Committee. I've just shown joy - and I don't think it's ironic - that I look forward to the discussions, that the debate has finally begun, and you're getting used to the new role, that's all, the opposition role, where you belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u107	Thank you. Another with a factual remark, Minister Marian Jurečka. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u108	Beautiful evening. Madam President, Prime Minister, colleagues, I have listened carefully to this debate for ten and a half hours, and I want to assure you that I, and I presume my colleagues, will respond. We're ready for this. But I'm used to it, and most of you, too, who have been conducting meetings and meetings, will first listen to those who have come up with some criticism, constructive criticism, opponentship and suggestions, listen to them and then respond. And you're going to say those demands how you need to work them out, how you evaluate them, and so on. It's exactly the same to me. I'm waiting here today, and I'm totally fine, first hour of the morning, second or third, I'm gonna react, and then we can run another round, maybe, to get you guys to react. But it seems fair to me to give you space so that - there are still 27 of you registered here, it's okay - you can respond to what the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister spoke for us at the outset, constructively, briefly went through all the stress chapters, said the key priorities to each one, and now the debate is. And I find it constructive, meaningful to let you react first, not to smash the debate, and then let the government react. We're ready for it. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u109	Minister, thank you for keeping the time. We have another point of fact here and I will ask for the speaker's desk - Mr Robert králíček. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u110	And he Žáček away from me. I wanted to respond to him because he did not apologize, I wanted to ask him again to apologize for the insults, and secondly I wanted to say that Mr. Tuhý and Mr. Švejdar's exchange took place in a completely different way, under different circumstances and in a completely different way. First of all. And secondly, you said you were going to do the politics differently, so why are you doing it as badly as we supposedly did? And as for Mr. Jurečka, I have to laugh that she's waiting for the end. Four years ago, he performed several times for the government's trust and called on, called on, and called on ministers not to respond immediately, and today he is humbly waiting. That's the change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I see that I have another factual point here, and I will ask for the speaker's desk - Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Madam, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u112	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Thank you so much for having someone from the government come out and tell us that he's going to try to answer us, but you and the Prime Minister have answered nicely when we're already in the media - and we've got it recorded because we've heard it too, you can all read it, it's three hours ago when he said, "Hey, I'm not [bleep] stuck with Fiala in the House, but he's got the institution in respect. So make sure you're in your ranks now that the Prime Minister's here is [bleep] off, and you said, "We've got to hang in there." So we're gonna have to hang in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u113	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. That was the last point in fact, and it is now coming to the debate with Mrs Zuzana Ožanová's speech. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u114	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to have come to the floor today. As part of the debate on government trust, I will focus on things that have not yet fallen. I confess that during the discussion that took place here, I crossed out part of the speech so I wouldn't repeat myself. I will mainly deal with transport, legislation and foreign affairs. When digitizing, not only the transport agendas you have included in the program, especially part of older citizens do not work with computer technology. Beware, let's not make them second-class citizens just because of their birth date. The date of birth is very important in this programming declaration. It plays a role for previously born and for the young generation. I would like to follow up on that by quoting from the government's programming statement: "At the same time as 30. 6. 2022 we will revise the state-given fare discounts." I myself perceived the introduction of fare discounts in terms of transport safety very positively. If this has contributed to the fact that at least a part of senior drivers and a part of young drivers have given priority from a financial point of view to public transport, road safety discounts are beneficial. It is also not possible to forget the health benefits. The way to the doctor became more accessible to the elderly. [[Rush in the hall.]] Aging contributes to changes in the human organism. Driver's reaction times... [[The MP will remain silent.]] I don't know, I'd love to talk, but I can't talk here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u115	I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u116	Unfortunately, I'm going to have to repeat the beginning of the sentence. Aging contributes to changes in the human organism. Driver response times are prolonged as they usually need longer time to process traffic information. The medical condition then results in the body's response to stimuli being slower as well. The cheaper fare thus gives these drivers a good alternative. They don't have to drive, they can go by public transport. [[20.50 hours]] And as far as students are concerned, students, especially in high schools, are just studying and not making money. For their families, any increase in fare, especially if they have a larger number of children, can be a problem. I would like to conclude by saying that for my 80 - year - old mother, who has worked as a nurse and has a pension of CZK 12,000, the possibility of cheaper public transport is quite crucial. However, it is true that after the increase in the fare situation, he will be able to resolve this by sitting behind the wheel. Thank you, although this is unusual in this debate, the new government for trying to continue updating the penalty system in the amendment to the Road Traffic Act. The new government wants to change the rules of road traffic and it will not be as difficult as the full proposal was submitted by the Ministry of Transport in the previous parliamentary term, on 1 September 2020, as press 987. I just don't understand what's changing with the reduction in criminal penalties. At present, for the least serious traffic offences, an order may be imposed on the spot, i.e. an old-fashioned block fine, amounting to CZK 1,000, CZK 2,000 or CZK 2,500 following a specific legal qualification. In criminal proceedings, the penalty for criminal offences is between CZK 1 500 and CZK 2 500. From my 15-year experience in dealing with traffic accidents, I don't know a negative offense that couldn't lead to a car accident. Only strict compliance with traffic regulations can lead to greater road safety. How lower fines can contribute to road safety, I really don't know. To please the fact that I will lift public transport fares to pensioners and students, and, on the contrary, to drivers who are neglectful of the rules, I will reduce sanctions is, to put it mildly, inadequate. That I connected the unconnected? No, I'm just pointing out the absurdity that will stand out if we put two points of statement next to each other. Drivers with enough money to buy a vehicle, petrol and legal insurance probably don't have money for fines according to the current government. Pensioners and students probably have large incomes, and they need to be reminded of this by raising prices. These proposals are in direct conflict with the declared increase in the number of passengers in public transport - also part of the programming declaration. Will the increase in fare rates in the non-profit-making part of the population really contribute to the increase in the number of passengers in public transport? It would be interesting to conduct a thorough analysis of this phenomenon. If you're wondering, yes, I have read everything I'm saying from the government's programming statement. So, once again, poor drivers can't pay such high fines for malpractice, from CZK 1,000 to CZK 2,500, but seniors and students rule by such financial resources that they will not be touched by the lifting of a fare. Let us move on to justice and legislation. Interestingly, it is an effort in the area of justice to enforce an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. I quote: "We will prevent excessive accumulation of political, economic and media power from distorting political and competition and taking place transparently, on a level playing field. " That's nice, but it's basically approved, and it needs modifications. But what about funding political parties? Shouldn't it be more precise? I would very much like to support the amendment and expect very strong support from colleagues from STAN. The preamble to the programme statement on legislation is - I quote: "Quality legislation and smart governance of the state are essential prerequisites for our country to prosper." Thank you, I only imagine smart management in this area by smart people. In support of this smart, not stupid state management, a top expert workplace is to be established, headed by renowned experts. Do I understand the need to further expand the number of employees? What do we have industry ministries and their specialists for? Let's cancel the Ministry! After all, only a few experts managed by the Minister of Legislation will suffice a cleverly managed state. I'm just wondering what kind of position the Prime Minister is supposed to have in a given model. There's one more thing about legislation. I am looking forward to the updated introduction of modern forms of public consultation on the upcoming and existing legislation. I just don't know whether the European Union was an inspiration or a very popular pirate forum. The last part of foreign policy. It's really fascinating. You will return professionalism to diplomacy, modernize and make the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more effective, as stated in your programming statement. I'd like to know the criteria for making the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more efficient. Does it mean processing a smaller number of data, or, as is customary for a party, will it decide everything for officials and diplomats of software? One of the very interesting things in this chapter is the nice promise to voters of a consistent abolition of the restrictions on pandemic travel. I just kind of don't understand the logic of it. If there is no pandemic, there will be no restrictions in relation to pandemics, namely restrictions on travel. It's nice to promise something that's automatic. After the pandemic, no one really expects, except for the government that will have to deal with it, to continue with the restrictions on the cause of the pandemic. Diplomatic relations so far have been the most intense, of course, with Slovakia. Somehow, our closest partner in the program statement was forgotten. Sorry, I didn't forget because cooperation in the Visegrad Group is mentioned. Slovakia is not explicitly mentioned, contrary to the explicit mention of cooperation with Germany and the USA, or with several other states. Cooperation with Slovakia is at least worth mentioning in the Government's programming declaration. From my assessment, however, this is an explicit non-professionality of the creator or approve of this part of the statement. I forgot, the government wants to return to the game of professionalism in diplomacy! Perhaps it will be necessary if our closest ally is unprofessionally forgotten. Yesterday the Prime Minister was on his first trip abroad in Slovakia. Perhaps he has a different view of the matter than it is presented in his government's programming statement, or is it merely a cover-up so that Slovak diplomacy doesn't find out? For me, so much for the government's programming statement. Today we will express whether or not this government has our trust. For me, this government doesn't have my trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u117	děkovat you, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. The Minister of the Interior, Mr Vít Rakušan, has now signed up with priority law. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u118	Good evening once again, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Government. The role has changed, and I'm not really gonna talk any flaming political talk here, but I'm gonna try to react because time has progressed. In order for opposition Members to feel that some of the things that have fallen are actually being answered, I will try to respond in this debate. I would like to very much appreciate Mr Ryba. His contribution was indeed factual. He is a person who understands the field very well, and he has asked some fundamental questions that I am happy to answer in my speech. At the same time, I would like to mention a few points within our programming statement from the Ministry of the Interior, which I consider appropriate for commenting here before the Chamber of Deputies before our government asks for confidence. [[21.00 hours]] One matter that has already been discussed here today, it has been quite a long time, in the morning, was a matter of correspondence elections. Yes, we do have in our government's programming statement that we want to modernise the governance of the elections, and, like the previous government, we have committed ourselves to a correspondence election for voters from abroad. Unfortunately, the previous government hasn't made it to the end in four years, and we have decided that we want to be more successful in this, and that is why we ask that the Senate press be included as a carrier of this amendment for this Friday, and we can, of course, go through further modifications at second reading. The Ministry also has some technical comments in itself, but I want to say one specific and clear thing that has not been said here and has been pushed forward in the debate. This is a correspondence choice from abroad. That's our government coalition's commitment. In the morning, it was used to introduce an instrument of correspondence elections in the Czech Republic as well. We could discuss this within the framework of our coalition negotiations, but the final decision that we have committed ourselves to, and we will do so as soon as possible during this year, so that perhaps the next President may be elected or our fellow citizens from abroad can vote in a correspondence way as soon as possible. We've already started working on that. Just to explain what is in our programming statement, and it may be proof that we really want to implement our programming statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u119	Minister, I am so sorry. I would like to ask the Member here on my left. He speaks very loudly and disturbs the Minister's speech here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u120	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I'm sure it helped me in a calm speech. Another matter concerns the Service Act. Here it is as if it were already pointed out what specific things will appear in this service law, many here presume. We have a working group led by an indisputable expert, led by an expert deputy of the Ministry of the Interior, led by a law professor, Professor Hůrka, and he is also the author of many publications and legal norms in this area. And I dare say that this is such a significant expert gesture, which will not really allow the service law itself to undergo any revision, which, after all, must also be, has not been passed by the European Commission, which will, of course, comment on that standard. Of course, we have a political working group that consists of lawyers, we have nominated the best lawyers we have, and we have one better expert on our part, Professor Hůrka, and we will prepare a service law to make it better than the previous one. For example, the Ministry of the Interior did not speak out loud or out of the mouth of my predecessor about the fact that, since 2019, the Ministry of the Interior had a study from KPMG, which pointed out that the existing service law has many substantive and legislative shortcomings that are worth correcting. Since 2019! Nothing happened in those two years. We take it as a challenge, analyze how the law can move in a better direction. That's the commitment we have in our programming statement. We've got a few years to do it, and I'm sure we'll fill it up, too. Another issue that has been mentioned is the Service Act. Here I thank Mr Ryb for reminding me that there is a need to reassure the congregations. I'll calm them down with this. We're definitely not going to deal with this here, and that's what we said in all the pre-election statements, by disturbing the welfare. It's not a matter, it's not the direction we're going. So that's the calming down. Thank you, I'm sure it was appropriate to make it public in this way, and you're right that peace in the congregations is certainly very, very important in this regard as well. The second point, however, is that police officers and firefighters themselves, and we know that from the Security Committee, where many of us sat in the previous four years, have reservations about many of the individualities that are in the Service Act. I will give some examples from the position of Police of the Czech Republic. For example, the requirement to untie rank labels and tariff classes, the possibility of extraordinary promotion of the best without changing their classification, changing the system of other professional requirements, changing the provisions on travel refunds, a lot and a lot of things. Our procedure is as follows, and I'm sure your colleagues from the police presidium will confirm that. I had a big meeting there on Monday with the current Mr. Police President, with all his deputies, and we have set up a working group where we logically invite firefighters, and that working group of experts, people in the field - we will invite even the largest trade union organisations to comment on it - and this working group will create a new law on service. None at the table written political assignment, but expert work, which will be consulted, of course, on the Security Committee. We just want to move this thing forward, because this request has been going on for about three or four years, so we're just following up on what's been worked out somewhere, unfortunately it hasn't come to an end, and on the other hand, with the new Service Act, we want to improve the conditions for the work of police officers, firefighters, just people in the service. That's our goal, not the interference of some service and all that. And it's a good thing that this explanation right here on the spot can sound so clearly and fall. I would also like to respond to the position of National Security Advisor. I consider this position to be very important, but I think that whether by our formulational error or simply by lack of communication, I do not know that, or by reading and other documents it was not defined exactly from the way Mr Ryba described it. National Security Advisor is a strategic function to be responsible for coordinating the most strategic security agendas we have here, for example, for coordinating the work of individual intelligence services. National Security Advisor will certainly put pressure on a government assignment to work and perform the tasks. By the way, the absence of this was certainly the cause of many problems that occurred here and there in connection with the intelligence services. We want to go through the legislative process quickly, and we have promised in the programme statement that the National Security Advisor will be here from 2023, hopefully we will be able to do it from January, at the latest from summer 2023, but since we have also consulted with the senators, at least some of them, so that I should not talk about everyone, so perhaps this could lead quite quickly to a successful goal - the person, among other things, will also be responsible for the strategic fight against misinformation in the public space. That's a thing that's been neglected for a long time. There is a special workplace at the Ministry of the Interior that deals with the classification of individual misinformations and tried to move them to various press departments of the Ministry in the past. Unfortunately, nothing happened, so we set up an ad hoc working group at the Ministry of the Interior for the year before this position of National Security Advisor was established. It will include our people, our analysts, defense analysts, sometimes even analysts from education, from other sectors, if necessary, and focus is mainly on classification, evaluation and communication in the matter of disinformation on covid. By the way, that was a matter of interest to President Zeman during our legendary meetings. I hope this can be processed very soon, in the order of months, but system misinformation will also be dealt with by national security advisors. After all, even the state's strategic communication, these are not individual press speakers at ministries, that is how the state operates on the outside, how it presents itself, how it accentuates its priorities. This too is a matter which will certainly be significantly interfered with by the National Security Advisor. The fact that someone is aligning the agendas of individual, say, power ministries will be at the hands of the Prime Minister and will coordinate the security agenda of the state is something that the Czech Republic certainly needs to be a country that behaves predictablely and strategically. [[21.10 hours]] Another issue I would like to mention from our programming statement is the amendment of crisis management, revision of type plans, analysis of current threats, preparation for specific crisis situations and strengthening the function of the Central Crisis Staff, preparation for specific situations. Who among us was worried across the spectrum knows that when the floods came, we reached into our work desks and took out perhaps a little dusty flood plans, and according to them we were able to manage the course of all the measures in the city. We would also like to make such plans at the level of municipalities and regions for other types of threats, whether it concerns blackout, whether it concerns sophisticated pandemic plans, I say also at the level of ammunition. As regards the strengthening of the Central Crisis Staff, we have already started working on this. We've removed duplicates in the system, we've abolished the Government's Health Risk Board. If I'm not saying it right now, I'm sorry, the institution doesn't exist anymore, so maybe I've gotten her name mixed up a little bit. This was an institution that was created within some internal competition to manage pandemic measures. We want a simple, legal scheme, where the Central Crisis Staff with its advisory bodies, where the central management team belongs now, by the way - it was in a different structure, now it's the task force of the Central Crisis Staff - so we simplified the system. That was the first step. In the second step, we will come up with a proposal for a certain operational capacity of the Central Crisis Staff and, as part of the whole preparation of the new crisis legislation, which we promised ourselves by the end of 2023, the Central Crisis Staff and on the basis of good foreign practice, we will try to define even more modern. There are other things that may not have been mentioned at all, things that no one has mentioned, albeit perhaps President Okamura in the middle of the morning. We have made it clear in our programme statement, in the area of security, that the resolution of migration crises will certainly not go the way of mandatory quotas. I would also like to emphasise that here, because that is part of the programme statement, our chapter on security. As far as the police are concerned, we all know on the Security Committee that the reform of specialized police departments was a sort of Mrs Columbová. There's been a lot of talk about her on the Security Committee, and we've never seen this reform before. For three years we have heard of it, the last year was an argument that we will no longer burden the election campaign with an important topic of discussion about the police. But I've never even seen that reform as a member of the Security Committee. We all feel that the security threats that are here, whether it's cybercrime, whether it's terrorism, need certainly a specialized approach, and we should not talk about any political assignment in this reform, that some specialised workplaces will move somewhere to have some influence on them. Let's hope that's the past as far as the police are concerned. But we want specialised workplaces that will cover areas that are new and to which the police are responding ad hoc, but do not have sufficient conditions to do so. The last general thing I want to say here. I know Maslowův's pyramid of needs. We even built our urban strategy on it, and I know that security is really in the basic needs that an intellectual, a professor, and a worker needs. Of course, that's how I perceive security. We all need to feel secure, and our programming declaration has clearly set goals so that the external and internal security of the Czech Republic is secured for all our citizens. We're gonna put a giant priority on that. Of course, we're definitely gonna argue about unit budget chapters. That's normal. That's part of every government. But we all understand security in this way, and I wouldn't want to see the Ministry as some kind of repression, as a ministry that is perceived as some sort of police ministry, even if the police are the basic organization that belongs to it, but I want it to be perceived as the Ministry of Security, that is, the Ministry of those who protect us, who help us, but also as the Ministry of friendly state fast digitized administration. And you'll find all that in our programming statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u121	Thank you, Minister. Now I have two priority rights here. First, with priority rights, I will ask the President of the ANO movement, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u122	I thank the Minister of Health for giving me priority because I want to respond to Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Home Secretary, Mr. Rakušan. Not everything, because he's been talking about a lot of things that are bound to get into the House of Deputies sooner or later, and there's gonna be a long debate about them, like a correspondence choice. So I'm not gonna open it, 'cause we couldn't do it until morning. As far as the amendment to the Service Act is concerned, I certainly agree with him that, in the person of Professor Hůrka, with whom we have been working all along in the government, there is a guarantee of high expertise, there is no doubt about it, and there is a guarantee that he will certainly talk politicians about various political tasks that would not be compatible with European law, because there are various information going to be about the political task of expanding political representatives. I remember the debate when this law was adopted. I was on the Government's Legislative Council at the time, and I was on the Financial Law Commission, but they met an ad hoc committee composed across, i.e. a large commission composed of those members. That's how I remember it, the debates where the political level should end. So I'm sure this is gonna be a tough meeting. I believe that the opposition will be invited to these debates because the law should not be here for single use, that is, one term, no matter how long it is. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to draw attention to one thing. I'm sure it's a good thing, and I thank the Minister for calming the security forces here, and I say that again from the position of my knowledge in customs administration, but I have worked with both the Fire Rescue Corps and the police, because we have been working on budget issues all the time, we have discussed the concept of increasing workers. I've noticed in the media - and I believe it can only be media shortcuts, so I don't pay attention to them, I'll pay attention to it when this government's new budget comes, so we'll definitely focus on it - a concept of increasing the number of employees has been set up here. That means the vacant posts you sometimes criticize, so they're teachers, firemen, policemen, soldiers in line with the concept of development of armed forces. So if I ever read that you're gonna cut those seats, I'm just warning you that you're gonna cut teachers, firefighters, cops, and soldiers in line with the set-up concept. I would like to point out that this could also be considered a threat to security, because it was set up by the expert teams of these departments. I wouldn't dare say anything about it. One more thing, lackeys. It's a good thing you're saying she won't interfere. That would be very wrong. I'll draw your attention to the tax aspect, and I'm sure you know him...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u123	Madam President, I'm sorry, I'm going to interrupt you and ask for peace in the Chamber. If there's something you want to do, please go to the lobby. Thank you, and I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u124	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to draw the Minister's attention to one more thing. He may know it, but if he doesn't, I'll say it as a tax collector. Once Mr. Exministry Kalousek - for his work these debts were taxed. That was, I think, your governments. You weren't in it, you were in your government. You taxed them, and in the days of Sobotkův's government, when Andrej Babiš was the finance minister, it was free again. It's about a billion, budget hits, right there in the party, but of course it helps those people. Just keep a close eye on it, so it doesn't happen to occur to the Minister of Finance - he's not here - to tax it again. Well, that's one thing. But be careful. A phenomenon I've tracked to armed forces over the last four years. As soon as anything starts to say that for us - whatever it was, I think, at the time that the YES movement was in executive employment, that means eight years from now - those salaries kept increasing. When the budget comes up, I'm gonna take all these graphs here, but you know that now, too, they're getting bigger. Now, of course, in 2021, we froze all salaries, all of them, including constitutional officials, but there was a cancellation of the supergross wage and an increase in the discount on the taxpayer, so it was indefensible. And now they're actually going to get over 6 percent in inflation, so the real wages are going to start going down. [[21.20 hours]] And that's always been an impulse in the armed forces, the way I tracked it down, any of this... They're very sensitive about it. There will be some information - I've just been getting it from tens - and I'm still getting it - from hundreds of different questions: Is it true that it's going to be that or that? And I've always had to straighten it out, preferably in that public space, because it meant for them that they just started to leave, those who are entitled to a retainer, because the retainer counted on them from the higher salaries, and when the real wage starts to fall, of course, they're leaving, because today on the labour market with this beautiful pension they're going to find application and they're so-called popularly speaking on their own. So please take this under advisement. We certainly do not want - and I would never suspect - to jeopardize the safety of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u125	I thank the President, and now with priority right, I will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Vlastimil Válek. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u126	Thank you, Madam President. I also believe that there will certainly still be some questions about health care, but since it is here, through you, Mr Špičák and Mr Brázdil, I would like to give a brief answer. First of all, thank you for the debate, thank you for the comments. I look forward to working with you. And only a few questions very briefly. The Kochův Institute is, of course, a complicated institution. That's also why I appointed Professor Slabý, professor of science, research. I think that's enough authority to be able to help with that. That is why the team, which is assembled around Professor Chlíbek, today includes 33 scientists from all over the Czech Republic, where the Academy of Sciences, Czech Medical Society, are represented by various scientific institutions. The Mathematical-Physical Institute, I believe, is strong enough to be the mathematical-analytical-scientific background of the future Kochův Institute. And, of course, Professor Štěpán Jurajda, who is an expert with experience from the United States, is a person with whom I met, consulted and discussed some areas, and his ideas about the development of something I would call the comprehensive name of public health in the Anglo-Saxon idea, and it is something that, of course, was implemented into the program, as well as the ideas of Professor Slabý and other colleagues, including the Rectors' Association, with whom I met in the program. This means, I am sure that this is complex in this regard, and I will be very happy to continue working very closely with Mr Špičák, through Madam President, with Mr Špičák. In general, the part that was focused on the future and development of medicine in the Czech Republic in the programme: we are now facing the EU Presidency. This Presidency must be accompanied by cooperation with France and established on cooperation with Sweden so that we can have maximum support for those who are ahead of us, those who are behind us. And I would very much like the Minister of Health to take part in these events where both Members and Senators from both Health Committees will go. I have asked both the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the President of the Senate for support in this, and I have debated this idea with both the President of the Chamber of Deputies' Health Committee and the President of the Senate's Health Committee. I would very much appreciate it if they were members of both the coalition and the opposition, because I believe that the EU Presidency is the Presidency of the Czech Republic, not the opposition or the coalition, and the quality of health care must be cultivated, improved in the long term, as well as its availability. From this point of view, I believe that this chapter may be sufficiently explained, and perhaps it was more of a misunderstanding or a misunderstanding. Through Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague Brázdil and assure him that this is really what this is meant in the programme, and I am sure that we need to achieve what has not been achieved by the last government. I understand that this was due to the fact that covid was and that then the rapid frequency of alternate ministers did not give them an opportunity to know what was going on in the ministry and who was working there, and they immediately left, so it was hard to move these things. That's why I'd like to follow up on the work they've done - and I don't deny that they've done a great deal of work there. And this is one of the things I'd like to bring to an end, the rescue service. I think it is good to use it, that although in opposition, but that is not important, there are two experts on this issue. And so, as I have written in the programme, I think so - I intend to work with them to move this issue to the furthest. Rescue, first aid, turned out to be at the time of the covid, and not just at the time of the covid, as a complete pillar of rapid care for our patients, and not just acute patients. That is why I am paying quite a lot of attention to this issue in the programme. I am convinced that as far as any payment for health care is concerned, it was not meant to be wrong and it was merely misunderstood. There's no word in the program that patients should pay for health care. But it's very simple. We have health care standards, as your colleague Špičák said, through your, Madam President, clinical recommended procedures. These clinical recommended procedures essentially replicate the standards of German, highest German standards of quality of care. The top quality standards of care have four countries in Europe and the Czech Republic has decided, I think it is right that it has decided - and I am not ashamed to say this, and I am glad to thank my colleagues both from the coalition and from the opposition, and I will be happy to name, by your means, Professor Adámková, who is there, and I hope that she will continue - so we will adopt these standards into the Czech health sector and these standards are to guarantee and guarantee Czech citizens that the quality of care is the same, available, free of charge, in the whole Republic. So that the performances they go to - and not just surgical, oncological or other performances - are of the same quality in all the workplaces where they perform the performances. We are fully aware - and this is the debate of all the experts from all the political parties, and it is a consensus - I assume that if one of my colleagues, regardless of which political party he is, had declared that he would confirm it - we are aware that transplanting the heart, transplanting the liver does not go in every hospital, therefore we have two top transplant centres. But there are also other performances, such as pancreatic tumors, such as anus cancer, and even in these performances, we need to ensure that our patients have the same quality of care wherever they go, and that's the system I want them to go. Fully covered by public health insurance - I want more. I want us to be fully paid in this way - and I have talked about this when I was an opposition Member and I am now implementing it - preventive programmes, comprehensive preventive programmes, i.e. to follow up on the good that has been done and to move forward, and what I know as a doctor from my 35-year experience, and they know this, through Madam President, colleague Špičák, Mrs Adámková and others, to implement, use and use the cooperation of all Members across the political spectrum, who will be members of the Health Committee, and I am looking forward to this cooperation. I'm fully aware that I'm from Brno. I'm not ashamed of it, and that's the last objection that sounded strong. I'm a Moravák, yes, there are times when I say, I'm from Brno. That's what they say in Brno. Even in Prague, before I found out that there was a regular tram ride, and not a chalice, there was just a period when I called this tram, and I am aware of this say my mistakes, working on Czech - after all, my ancestors were related, were poets, one of them was even quite famous, and it would be a shame if I had not cultivated our beautiful mother tongue, Seifert, Čapek. I will do this and do everything I can to get closer to the quality of my Czech, at least to the quality of Czech, through Mr President, Mr Babiš, who criticized me. [[Madam President?]] I'll do my best. Thank you, and that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u127	Thank you, Minister. So now we are going back to the general debate and I will ask the speaker's desk for Mr Karel Rais to come. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u128	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the House. Dear Members of the Government, dear fellow Members, allow me to share my opinion on a relatively small part of science, research and innovation in the Government's programming statement. Part of the science, research and innovation of the government's programming statement is characterised in particular by a high degree of generality, non-specificity and non-compliance with control instruments in the evaluation of individual government declarations. That has already been said by my previous speaker, President Schillerová. I am surprised that the government's statement lacks such basic data and information as, for example, an indication of the size of the budget that will be devoted to science and research. When I looked at the numbers that are there, I basically found just two in relation to covid-19 and methodology 17+. Otherwise, there is absolutely no number, and I know that then the vague proclamations are very easy to fulfill. Thus, a concrete assessment of the fulfilment of individual proclamation theories, their control will be virtually impossible, and the government already has practically ensured that this part of the Government's declarations of science, research and innovation will certainly be formally fulfilled. I would stop here at the part devoted to government commitment, and quote: We will prepare a comprehensive amendment to the R & D Support Act with the aim of administrative burdens by removing fragmentation and simplifying the overall management system. But we will prepare, allowing the government to back out of a so-called big amendment to the Science, Research and Innovation Act, which is necessary for practice, which was already ready by the past government guarantee. [[unintelligible]] So I would have expected that there would be no talk of preparation here, but of the presentation of a law on science, research and innovation at some particular time. One of the key factors in the development of science and research is or is not lagging behind the scientific world is and will be, in particular, investment in large infrastructures such as CEITEC and other IT for Innovation and so on. Five, ten years ago, we had technical means to support the development of science and research at world level, which, of course, attracted many world-class scientists to these centres. During today's government, it will be necessary to restore some of the relatively outdated infrastructure in the order of perhaps billions of crowns. And it is a pity that the government statement does not mention the specific costs of these investments at all again. The positive act of the previous government and subsequently of the Chamber of Deputies was the legalization of the so-called small amendment to Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation. But even then I pointed out in the House the lack of shortcomings, which so called a small amendment of the law did not pay attention to the issue until the next one, in the big amendment. In particular, it was a matter of setting up public research institutions, where I think that universities in particular need it and in the material presented, I did not find a word about it in the government's programming declaration. Further support for the creation and operation of innovation centres. I think it's necessary for it to be developed in that programming statement and individual spin-off companies. Furthermore, there is a need, a chronic matter, which means, I mean, a change of law especially in the relationship of a researcher and an institution. That's what I think they should be in the novel that they're saying they're gonna set her up, that my government's gonna set her up, so she should be, that's what we should be dealing with in some way. I also expected more specific answers to some of the chronic issues of financial evaluation, especially in the area of people in science, research and development and innovation. Not only institutions, but also doctoral students. The statement merely mentions such a general, strengthening the role of a network of scientific diplomats. In the section on education is mentioned again only about preparation, I underline the preparation, not about the implementation of the reform of doctoral financing study. The submitted part of the government's statement seems very unspecific to me and is generally considered. Neither target is quantified in the declaration. And the way I understand it, the government's just afraid to put some specific data in there, because if the data isn't there, no one can blame it. In fact, if the government had done nothing at all, by simply moving itself and keeping quiet a number of researchers who, fortunately, do not perceive politics and their speech, it is already ensured that this very vaguely processed part of the programming declaration is fulfilled. Unspecificity, vagueness are the main reasons why I consider this part of the government statement to be imperfectly processed and, of course, I will not vote in favour of this government statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now for the general debate, Mr Robert králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u130	Good evening again, Madam President, Prime Minister, dear government, colleagues. I am very pleased and want to thank the new government for following up on the previous successful period of digitisation of the state administration in its programming declaration. I am also very pleased that in this programme statement I find almost 100% agreement with the already created Digital Czech strategy. Sometimes I felt like I was reading it again. For me, it is a confirmation of the well-done work of the previous government and also an agent for the digitalisation of Mr Vladimír Dzurilla, despite the considerable pre-election criticism of the Pirates headed by Vice Prime Minister Bartoš. Let us remember that during the previous parliamentary term, the digitalisation achieved significant shifts and completed most of what was planned. At random, we can mention the law on electronic identification, banking identity, data boxes for all, public administration portal, customs portal, job portal and social affairs, citizen portal, information from the real estate register, electronic applications for driving licences, digital highway signs and many more. However, it is also true that the covid-19 pandemic has contributed to a change in the behaviour of the population. For example, it was the establishment and use of data boxes that increased significantly or that the teaching was forced to move to an online environment. Some projects have also accelerated and new applications have also been created. We all know Dotka, čtečka or registration for testing, vaccination and more. However, the Government's digitalisation programme statement also opens up a lot of questions. The biggest thing for me is who is actually responsible for digitization and billions planned to invest in it. Is it really Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development Ivan Bartoš, who established the position of political deputy for digitization or will it be the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, under whom he is the deputy responsible for eGovernment, Office of the Chief Architect and Administration of the Basic Registers? If this is indeed Vice Prime Minister Ivan Bartoš, then I ask what responsibility he will have and how he will "task" such as the Interior Ministry's staff, how and with what responsibility will he communicate and set guidelines and strategic objectives for civil society workers such as NAKIT, the Treasury, the Shared Services Centre and possibly the Czech Post, which also fall within the competence of the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Finance, i.e. other political parties, STAN and ODS? So will some of these unions and institutions be transferred to the Office of the Government? This possible transfer may take many years, as there will be a need to amend the law of competence, the law on information systems of the public administration and others. These fundamental changes will certainly not accelerate digitalisation, on the contrary, they can make it very difficult, slow down and significantly expensive. Another issue that is offered when reading the programme statement is the number of new seats. Very often I have come across the phrase and the phrase: we will create new teams, we will create new platforms. Last but not least, I quote: we will strengthen professional and personnel capacity. All of this, however, brings an increased number of workers and officials, but this contrasts sharply with the pre-election promises of the two coalitions, where they vowed to reduce the number of officials. Some specifically said that the number of officials would fall by 13 percent. I am not questioning the need for experts on digitisation in the state administration. But this too shows how populist statements today were made by the government party before the elections. [[21.40 hours]] In the chapter Health Care, where we set up eRecipe, eIncapacity, health insurance services, Patient Portal of the Moravian-Silesian Region or the introduction of cross-border eHealth services in the Czech Republic in the previous term, I found only a sentence in the current programming statement: "We will support the sharing of information between providers and patients, i.e. the accelerated development of the digitalisation of Czech health care and the interconnection of the system of individual health establishments." That's why I'm asking, who will be responsible for developing digitization in health care? Will it be the Minister of Health, Mr. Válek, or will it be Mr. Bartoš again, and who will put the above statement to life? Will you establish a central body responsible for the implementation and development of digitization, for example by transforming existing entities under the Ministry of Health? Who, for example, will implement projects and investments in cyber security in health care as a key element of security for all of us? Is it Mr. Bartoš again? This too remains unanswered in the programming declaration. One of the favorite points that can seem to get some of us excited is edokladovka, but I ask why will we develop it in the Czech Republic? Why not use the platform developed and implemented within the European Union? Or is it just the drawing of other funds for selected companies? And this, of course, is linked to the question of how is the government prepared to draw European money in the digitalisation area? Who and how will coordinate the drawdown from the National Recovery Plan? When will money start to draw and how efficiently? In the government's programming statement, I also lack state-owned enterprise strategies that currently provide certain services, platforms and eGovernment applications. What strategy does the government have with NAKIT companies, the State Treasury of the Shared Services Centre? How will the government use the potential capacity of the Czech Post in the eGovernment area, where we can make it much easier for cities and municipalities? Following this, we can ask what the writers meant by saying: We will implement the concept of eGovernment cloud in the state and commercial parts and adopt more flexible rules for the purchase of cloud services in line with EU standards. We will ensure the storage of personal data of residents in secure data centres in the Czech Republic or in the states of the European Union. So what is the strategy in the field of selected services, such as cloud or, for example, Czech POINTs? For example, will we return Czech POINTs to selected original companies that operated them for the state? Will it be more effective, or will they remain in the hands of the state, and will we continue to develop them, for example, in state enterprises? As I mentioned at the beginning, the similarity of the programme statement with the concept of Digital Czechia is purely random, but there are also passages that the new government wants to push through, but in the previous term - in quotation marks - it successfully blocked or delayed them. When reading the passage "We will strengthen the importance and coordination of information and cyber security in the state's security policy while maintaining the right to privacy and individual freedom," I wonder who actually held up the Military Intelligence Act during the last parliamentary term, in which way we were unable to effectively defend the Czech Republic in cyberspace. However, I would like to thank you for the inclusion of the digital economy and also the need to cooperate with the European Union in the field of digitalisation and the digital economy in the programming declaration. When these two areas in the coalition agreement were forgotten, there was great concern that these were not areas the new government wanted to address. I also see inspiration in the concept of Digital Czechia here, and I am very pleased that these important areas of our economy no longer ignore the programming declaration. Finally, I would like to express my concern about the fulfilment of an otherwise ambitious plan for the continuation of a successful project for the digitalisation of the state administration. Here I am also confirmed by the passage - I quote: "To improve living conditions and services in cities and municipalities, we will use the full potential of technological revolutions and innovations, for example according to the Smart Cities concept." When I see what kind of proclamation Mayor Hřib and pirát had about how they will turn Prague into a digital city, which will be built exclusively on the ones and the zeros, but the result is rather zero so far. We have an overpriced Prague Portal, IT orders for the City Council are being examined by police and the Office for Competition, and in the finals Prague is significantly offended by the second year in the ranking of so-called smart cities, from 28. to 78. place. That is why I am concerned that this trend should not continue with the digitalisation of the state. For us, I can promise that we will cooperate actively on this subject, come up with our own proposals, which we will also discuss on the subcommittee for eGovernment, which I firmly believe will meet more than three times a year, as was the case under the leadership of Mr Profant's current political deputy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I have the priority right of the Minister of Regional Development, Mr. Ivan Bartoš. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Králíček, for I expected his performance and there was a lot of inspirational - some true, some false - information. I would even start with the concept of Digital Czechia. I and Pirates and many other people, not only from the political scene, but also from the professional scene, have addressed the concept of Digital Czechia, we have even added to it a component that concerns open source and how to not get into the ruin of what is happening in the Czech Republic, the so-called vendor lock-in, when you are given the contract, you are already forever connected with the supplier and you are completely in control of any possibility of developing the system in any way, you just always tell you the requirements, you are valued and you do not have the opportunity to solve the digitalization modularly. We had an important one for the Digital Czech Republic, and it turned out that even a legitimate criticism. Digital Czechia has several pillars and requires a high level of coordination, because digitalization is not a question of one person, it is not a question of one institution or one company, such as NAKIT, which solves a large part of digitalisation under the interior, but it is an inter-ministerial issue and it is a question of how it has already been shown which, with an enlightened and fair business sector, can be addressed. This turned out in the covido and it turned out in the last parliamentary term to prepare about three of the most important laws of Czech digitalization, which were not created on the government that arose here in the House by the cooperation of opposition parties and eventually government and ministries. It was a citizen's right to digital service, it was a law that we needed, which gives the ministries a legal obligation to digitize the services for citizens gradually, because there was a common excuse: We would like to do this, but we cannot invest in digitalisation if we do not have the legal obligation to do so. These were digital technical maps, which were again developed by the House's initiative in cooperation with the ministries, which provide the basis for the digitization of building management and, in fact, the map systems that we will use in the future, and it was the banking identity that Mrs Kořanová also dealt with, again in cooperation with the business sector across the political parties. In the finals and with the support of the government, we managed to get into public space a project that allows 4.5 million citizens to use the services of the government. You asked about my role. I have historically been able to work with Vlad Dzurilla, a government agent for digitization, where I have seen great enthusiasm, great determination to deal with these things, yet relatively small pressure, for a simple reason. Mr. Prime Minister of digitalization was sometimes interested, sometimes he was not interested, Vlado Dzurilla often ran into the issue of resortism, which is given in the Czech Republic, and at the same time when money was needed, so the overall budget, which is on individual resorts as an investment in Czech digitalization, was always shown, but he could not say: Here add, here reduce. It's been a long debate with Secretary Schillerová, probably eventually some of the money has always flown into the digitization. And we decided to change the concept. Not that we invented it here in the House, Pirates, ODS, TOP, STAN, but it is a debate that has long been going on with the professional section, with the professional public, where digitization is supposed to have a clear competence centre, a clear centre, a so-called government, which determines the methodology that controls the effectiveness of individual projects and plans, as is already happening under the whole section of architecture, which gives instructions and in the final can also say: This project, for example e-shop on motorway stamps, do not do, or a new Wikipedia in culture, which can give a methodology for checking published orders. [[21.50 hours]] And when we look abroad, the real inspiration was the model, which is in the UK, the model GOV.UK where there really is an authority that either has the Prime Minister's support directly, or the person who is supposed to cover this is the government. So much for the logic of the change we want to go. And you rightly pointed out that this will also require transformation - we know this: a transformation that will clearly define competence, a transformation that will support what is the core of Czech digitalization, those are the central registers, those are services that are provided by the Ministry of the Interior in particular at the moment, because they are shared services. That's what all the other departments use for their systems. This is what we want to give a clear budget chapter, accessibility, continued maintenance and security. At the moment, therefore, no one is erasing the resortive solutions of individual systems, but we are trying to transform the part that did not get a seat in the previous government in this way to ensure that the coordination of Czech digitalization is fast, efficient, and those projects are not only available at the Ministry of some architect or some emissary, but are actually delivered in a coordinated, fast and significantly cheaper way. You mentioned how we're going to approach the core of digitization at the Ministry of the Interior. We ran as a coalition of Pirates and starosta with the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. We are working together on this concept, and I believe that we will come to terms with the transformation, because that is the agreement - not only when we created the Pirates and Mayors program, but also the agreement in the whole coalition. Even Prime Minister Petr Fiala said here at the beginning that this is one of the priorities not only because of the efficiency of state governance, or where we want to achieve Estonian success, especially in the GDP investigation, but also in the availability of services to citizens. I believe that, for example, the network of Czech POINTs that you mentioned here, at this moment, which is functional and solves a large percentage of people who simply will never be digital in the service. Their data is running around the state administration, or they're sneaking around until the data is properly shared, but those people just won't be digital in the sense that they'll tap a service on a smartphone in a single interface. After all, the Citizen Portal does not yet have the app that would be adequate, as we are used to using applications such as internet banking or other services. For these people, we should maintain the services of the Czech POINT so that all those digital services will help them to serve them there, whether they are an employee of the post office or anyone else who will be doing this service at the moment. There was talk of the Post Partner institutions, but in fact it is a trained operator who can deal with these data, which is the question which person it will be, who will cover it, and then it can provide these services. You asked the safety question. Security in the Czech Republic is being addressed by the SACCIB and I think that security should be strengthened. I believe that we will also deal with this in individual resorts, because if something has been criticized from us, it is such an eternal cycle, when individual ministries, and even individual authorities are audited, and the SACUIB will submit this report every year about how it is not actually okay, but since the money for software security is the last to be given, the report is mostly there, and the changes are, let's say, minimal, although I don't want to judge on this level, of course some institutions are going better, some of them are worse. And I think it should stay that way. I think the money should be spent on this. We have talked for a long time about what structure or salary groups are needed at the SACUIB when this matter is so important. And it is necessary to focus on the fact that people with expertise do not end up purely in the private sphere, but are actually able to supply their knowledge to the state. I think I saw last year or previous year some audit of the security of the Czech Republic showed up. I think it was even shared by the SAOKIB, but it was such a flat ranking of success because the individual parameters that were measured and in which the Czech Republic was assessed very positively were static. We have the Cyber Security Act 100 per cent, we have the SACCIB 100 per cent, but cyber security is a dynamic thing, it is a matter of human resources and competences. That's what we'd like to strengthen. I could go on like this. I believe that we will discuss this many times, because even as Prime Minister Petr Fiala said, digitalisation is a priority. I think what is important to say: the transformation must not jeopardise the process of digitization and the progress of projects that are running on individual resorts. We want to give it order, speed, efficiency. I'm not the world champion of amoleta, either. I believe we will do it with our partners as we have declared. After all, the role of the business sector, which at this time can simply pay people better than the government, is - if it is a fair partnership, which we have experienced during this parliamentary term, that it is - completely desirable. Some ideal I would like to reach some time, but I don't know if one term is enough, is really a model where motivated people, for example, when studying when their claims are lower, they don't even start a family, or after studying they enter the services of the state administration in the IT area, they get spurs there, they get practice, and at a time when their demands, for example, increase because there are no balanced salaries in this area, they go to the public sector or to the business sector, which is the partner who carries out those services. And that's what I think is a model that should be functional, and in the finals, it's people who know the government and also use the services as users, so they can best evaluate whether the digitalisation process is correct and contribute to that. That would probably be all at the moment. Of course, investment in digitization must be an investment in its essence that comes back. We often look at digitization as some kind of black box where we throw money like that, but it rarely sounds like the calculation that really saves, what the money can still be used for. The government's digitalisation plan is ambitious, and I hope that, as we have worked together at the level of the Chamber of Deputies from opposition benches not only with Bára Kořánová, but with the people of the ANO movement, not just with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, we will be - because I think digitalization is not a political issue, but it is a recognised necessity - so we will also work together at the moment that our positions have turned around thanks to the outcome of the elections. We can certainly talk about the need for political deputies who have no responsibility, but there are many of them at each resort today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u133	Thank you, Minister. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Your speech brought up a point of fact, so I would like to ask a Member Robert králíček to come to the speaker's desk. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u134	Just for a little while. I did not claim at all - or question the role of the private sector in digitization, but only from the past do we know that we sometimes gave up some of the key commodities in telecommunications and energy. So I would just rather -- my reasoning was in the sense that some of these key things should not need to be left under state enterprises and other things. But I do not question the necessary cooperation with the private sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u135	Is he applying from the point of view to the facts or with priority rights...?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u136	I'd still react. Maybe I didn't say well, because MP králíček... I won't react to what you said. It sounded from people who ever did Czech digitalization, that it knew-how, that knowledge. must be in source. It must remain with the state, institutions or companies that are in the state. The private sector can bring a user's perspective into this. In a number of things, the know-how... He's just working a lot better than some portal at this point in time, but it's just the know-how that has to stay in source. What scared me, and that's long before even YES was on the scene or in politics, when the knowledge that the office, which writes orders or solves a process, is that there will be a tax change, the so-called tax package. Let's imagine a stack of documents and we need to implement it into the Ministry of Finance's financial system. And that factual knowledge -- and now I'm doing it figuratively, so I don't want to offend anyone -- is measuring the thickness of the change in the tax package in paper form, seeing how much it cost last year to implement it. Is the pile bigger, is it smaller? Oh, it's smaller, we'll get it valued, the amount is smaller, everything's fine. [[2.00 hours]] But the complexity of the implementation, that your percentage is changing somewhere or something is moving from one tax level to another in one table, just this know-how has to be on the side of the state. It doesn't have to be a priori with individual officials at the resorts, but it has to be someone who trains people, who can describe those processes that know the architecture of these systems and who, and that may happen thanks to the citizens' right to digital service, because the ministries describe their services and know how it works in that system. There's no point in digitizing the processes wrong. It is certainly not worth digitizing something that nobody knows how it works, but it just works for years, and this know-how has to be recovered from the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u137	I also thank you, Minister, I did not interrupt you because I did not know whether you were performing with de facto or with preferential rights. So I do not have another factual point, and at this point I will ask another speaker for debate, and this is Mr Robert Stržínek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u138	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to briefly comment on the point that we are debating, and that is the expression of confidence in the government that emerged from the October elections. Someone said the election was a competition. And like any contest, choices have rules. It's a race that has its winners and losers. So if we stay with the sport terminology, I'll take a short and very simplified approach. Imagine a jump into a distance. Six athletes met at the start. From the first five racers jumped every two meters. The sixth jumped six feet nine. The first ones, less able, agreed to add their jumps to the distance. Five times two is ten and ten is more than nine. Every kid knows that, but jumping nine meters and leaving behind other competitors who jump only two meters while not standing on the crate just isn't fair. The athletes know it, and so does a large group of voters, all the more so that these first five jumpers split five gold medals between themselves. But rozum says that gold, if there is to be justice, can only have one, the best. In this case, however, the rules went on hand to those who jump only two meters, and many of them even less. Looks like one of the family movies where one of the protagonists says, "Friends, friends, we'll bring you the medals." And I just add: We will deliver at any cost, even at the cost of bending the basic principles of competition. The new five-wheeler is shielded by the fact that it wants to behave responsibly and fairly. He claims to be logical and predictable as well. Don't be mad at me, but it doesn't look like it yet. As mayor of the 22,000th city, I ask why, if you have announced mandatory testing for covid, will you pay the costs associated with this only to private companies, but not to cities and municipalities? Why do you punish those for your decisions that you require cooperation to comply with the regulations, but unlike the previous government, you do not compensate them for these costs? Is that a systemal and fair approach? I don't think so. You have moved the problems of solving the energy crisis to the labour offices, their separation of material emergency and state social support. These benefits will be administered by their employees, who are already under enormous pressure today. These employees, who also stand in the front line as well as many others, but unlike others, were rewarded for their previous quality work with a zero salary increase this year. Addressed targeting aid at the time of energy amplification sounds interesting at first glance, but unfortunately in your submission it means that those who work and perform their civic duties will be unlucky again. The address aid system is unfair to the broad middle class, to a large group of people who work honestly as employees or entrepreneurs. Are you working? Do you make money? Do you pay taxes? Wrong! You're out of luck! Pay the full amount of expensive energy! I do not approve of this approach, nor of the other steps you have taken so far, whether it is an entirely inappropriate attack on the Hungarian Prime Minister by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the refusal of a flat-rate reduction or forgiveness of VAT on energy or an unprecedented extension of ministerial posts to eighteen ministries. The six months' internship of your colleague Farský in the United States is then merely a reflection of the absolute disregard and dishonor of the position of Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I am also for digitization and online communication. After all, I've been doing business in the IT area for 20 years. But I don't really know how to have an online MP on the other side of the globe and I don't even want to imagine. Awkward conversation between Vít Rakušan and police President Jan Švejdar, who then ended his engagement with the police. Cyprus's funding of STAN remains unexplained and, last but not least, your way of resolving the covido situation in our country is a big question. Therefore, and not only that, I will not express my confidence in this blinded government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u139	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, another one in the debate is signed up by Mrs Taťána Malá. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u140	Good evening, Madam President, Prime Minister, Government, honourable Members. Allow me, too, to briefly comment on why I cannot and will not vote in favour of the government of Petr Fiala today. At the outset, I must say that I am very disappointed with the approach of the newly formed coalition to the establishment of the government, but above all from its actions so far. It is only natural that as an opposition MP, I will not gloat with superlatives. However, the fact that you have failed me is not essential, but unfortunately you have managed to disappoint a large number of our country's citizens, and what is most sad, you have also failed some of your voters who have believed your pre-election promises about great recipes for solving the covideo pandemic. We heard about the return of the tests, the O-T-N system, the recognition of antibodies, all at a time when it was clear that we wouldn't avoid the micron. Of course, you didn't realize any of this. Why? Since you've obviously found that it's different to shout out proposals without responsibility, it's a beautiful criticism at all costs, and especially to bring up proposals for which people will applaud you, that's easy. It's different now that it's the responsibility. That's what you have to do with unpopular steps. We've heard of a recipe for energy poverty that has created support here that a few people will use. We have heard of a recipe for helping businessmen, which you have cut off from any help. We've heard about how you're gonna support teachers, but you're gonna cut their salaries right after taking up their duties. We've also heard about how you're going to reduce the number of civil servants, but the first thing you're going to do is create three new ministerial posts, and you have so many ministers that they don't really fit into one line. You will bring 74 new officials to the Office of the Government. The pirate apostates, who have passed the House elections at full speed, are settling in places of political deputies at all possible ministries. I don't even want to think about what it would be like if the YES movement did this. That would be screaming, calling for resignation and strong words. We have also heard about how clearly and above all you will communicate clearly, but what your government is doing in the communication of covideo measures can be considered anything but clear and direct communication, to which you have called for the previous government and which you have criticized so much before. I would like to draw your attention, Prime Minister, through the President, Madam President, to the fact that the voters who voted for you, and I know a lot of them, have expected a change according to your pre-election promises, but not the one you are demonstrating, the one for the worse. [[22.10 hours]] And to make matters worse, we have learned from Minister Rakušan that there is a need to make lists of the Babish, and out with them. Anyway - Minister Stanjura says that right - in any case, the time of the different lists has already been and has not been very well lived here, and you yourself have been and are loud critics of this time. But, as you can see, power is intoxicating and necessary humility is like saffron in this government. I would like to ask, Minister Rakušan, through Madam President, what such lists will look like and whether there will be any time for a particular person to cooperate with the former government, or just as emotionally according to who his friend is with. And while the Home Secretary is making lists, the country is in a budget commission, he can't even pay an advance on an omicron cure. And I'm not going to remind you that the Treasury Secretary of the day warned vehemently about the difficulties of the provisional budget. Unfortunately, it kind of reminds me of the saying: "Smartly tell me..." I have to quote here with the author's consent the email from the House of Post, which I received last week, because it describes quite precisely the current state of conduct of the new government, it is a bit of an ostrich with its head in the sand: "Dear Lady of Members of the South Moravian Region, can you help us craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the service to find out when the new challenge of the MIT's Covido programmes will be announced Uncovered Costs and COVID 21? To this day, we still have no information, but no information at all except for and a visa for the programmes that were prepared by former Minister of Industry and Trade Mr. Havlíček. I'm turning to you in a rather desperate situation. I believed in the autumn vows, and I did everything that you, who were in charge of the day, wanted me to do. I'm sending unscathed customers away from my establishment, inoculating myself, convinced my employees to inoculate themselves, and that it was a job to convince those 20-year-olds. I tested all the employees at the firm, bought respirators, disinfectants, just everything I was ordered to do. And now I feel badly damaged by the approach of the new government of the Association of Petr Fiala, which I have, yes, which I have voted for. I believed I was voting for a middle-class and small and middle-sized businessman party. However, this government has completely resigned towards the entrepreneurs and substitutes that belong to them, and the promised compensation does not communicate to entrepreneurs. I have an obsessive feeling that they are deliberately avoiding this subject. I've tried to contact interested parties, but believe me, completely unanswered. I wrote to Mr. Síkel, in parentheses: Mr. viditelný, called to the MIT line, wrote to Mr. Jurečka about the abolished Antivir and Mr. Fial. Nobody knows anything, and politicians don't answer. Mr. Stanjura at press conference 29. 12. Assures that the budgetary provisional is not a problem, that he has spent money on covido programmes, and therefore their payment is not at risk. Why isn't it happening? I'd like to tell you that there is no way around this. It is not possible to be silent or sit or hide, in parentheses: Síkela. This is a compensation that we are fully entitled to, we are talking about the months of November and December. If you no longer continue to replace entrepreneurs from January, the O-N system must be abolished immediately. I can't voluntarily give up my income every day by refusing unvacated customers. I am threatening myself, the household, the company, the state, for I will not choose much for him, nor will I take it away. I appeal to you as a representative of the South Moravian Region, where I live and do business. We obviously don't care about anybody at the state level and so on. You know, most of us may just have apprentices, we don't have degrees and prestigious schools like you, but I don't think we're stupid and we don't deserve to be ignored and broken promises. Thank you so much for your time. Marcel Pánek, entrepreneur in gastronomy, Brno - Vyškov." I would be very pleased, Minister Síkela, if you could answer this entrepreneur, or I would be happy to give you a contact with him. I remember very well how you guys were here, yelling at every last government's stumble, fighting something no one's ever seen before. It was you who screamed that everything was wrong, and only you knew the recipe for inflation and covid. Seriously! But I am still waiting with other citizens of the Czech Republic when Prime Minister Petr Fiala will come up with a solution to the pandemic of the covid as you promised in all kinds of media. You couldn't possibly be specific at the time and promised that Petr Fiala would come up with a solution when he was Prime Minister, so that someone else wouldn't take the credit. Well, Professor, it's time. Babiš and his government are gone, and you're Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u141	The next one entered in the debate is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, we are here today to vote on your trust, on the trust of the government. We are here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies but also to defend the interests of our citizens. And most importantly, my words are addressed to them. I have been here for the third term, and that is very good for this particular moment. I remember your position. I remember what you stood for on individual laws, what your positions on topics under discussion are. And I remember your argument, too. The politicians of the government's parties cursed in the elections with change, promising citizens mainly decency and professionalism. And it hasn't been 30 days since the appointment of the new government by President Zeman, and some ministers are already dumping themselves. Is there a surprise? Not in some ministers, if any. You know that agriculture is an area that I am intensively engaged in, and you know that my fundamental value is openness and direct action, which is not a favourite quality for some. Now, please, let's ask each other a question. What is the government that is newly appointed likely to do, whose nominee for the post of Minister of Agriculture is ill, and the administration of the relevant ministry is temporarily entrusted to another minister? Right, if you can think of a government that believes in itself, which is professional and which declares a decent act, that such a government will wait for confidence. He waits for a selected expert to join the Ministry, and then he starts to implement his strategies and competently and systematically manage the resort. If the government really is confident and competent, it has nothing to worry about. He trusts himself and knows he'll rule for four years. And if he rules well, maybe he'll get the confidence of his constituents again. And is this government that is asking us for trust today, competent and confident? According to the meeting of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who was tasked temporarily with the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, probably not. What happened? Friday 17th. 12. The president will appoint the government - I will not engage in the round-up negotiations - and 22. 12. 2021 Deputy Minister recalled the Director of the Forests of the Czech Republic, this is Wednesday. And then it's Friday, Christmas Eve. The following are the next days when Christmas holidays, days of peace, peace and peace take place, and then in the next four days four other key workers called off by the CEO of the Forests of the Czech Republic will resign to their duties and leave as well. There's no line in the press. Finally, we have January 3, 2022, and the office is taken up by the true Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nekula. And I ask, are the activities and attention of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs against the Ministry of Agriculture illegal? No, they're not. Is that weird? Yes, it is. And what do you think about the rush to get fired, especially when it comes to the first, the failed transformation of the business? Couldn't it have waited for the new Minister to be assessed? Was the real reason announced true? Was the change prepared and thoughtful? I am impressed that the change was thought out and probably ready. But the reason, folks, the reason was different. Let us believe that this was not about losing land for the return of Mr. Szórád's former Director, nominated by former Minister of Agriculture Mr. Jurečka, who had been prosecuted and in the past. [[22.20 hours]] And what is clear about this? That the acting Minister Jurečka certainly did not make the situation easier for the real Minister of Agriculture Mr Nekul. I like to do a management summary, and I'm gonna do it for the citizens now. Dear citizens - and farmers separately - this story shows us that a nice facade of some ministers falls before we expect. And they mainly show us how they intend to rule. And we will find further analyses of promises and actions in the preamble to the Agriculture chapter, where the government that asks for our trust states: "We will more effectively support small, medium and early and green farmers with the contribution of European funds and subsidies in particular. " Let's be clear, with subsidies from the European Funds. That word is very important. Voters are allergic to subsidies, have become synonymous with unfair business and criticism of grant policy trumps in the hands of the current government, back in the days of their opposition. When we were talking about European subsidies for farmers, Petr Bendl blew us like this: If you want to address the competitiveness of Czech agriculture by pumping more and more subsidies into it, know that it is rather the poison of the management of Czech farmers and their addictive substance, which will not leave good links for the future. The subsidies are a poison that disrupts competition. I understand that the five-wheeler is very pro-European, and therefore has to find a new consensus, and despite the ODS' opinional command, I am glad that this topic is back on the table. It is also necessary to openly say who Czech farmers are. And I'm asking you. Do you know what a Czech farmer looks like? Yes, it's the man on the tractor. Yes, it's the lady in the cowshed, too. Yes, he's also a business director who negotiates with transnational chains. And it's the lady over the books. But it doesn't matter if this person works in a small, medium or large enterprise, because Czech farmers are primarily people to whom we owe quality food, quality soil and which we can trust. I know that because I've been in touch with them every day, I've got state control authorities' analyses on my desk, and I'm not blinded by political ambitions or ulterior intentions. And why do I mention that? Because the last few years have been a considerable effort to massage the public, that small and medium-sized enterprises are the good and big farms, those are the bad ones we have to deal with. In particular, shouldn't politicians of today's ruling parties boasting about their farming roots divide farmers so that it is only right and fair? And that is for those who strive for quality and care for land, animals, and those who cheat, violate standards and seek to get rich without work. When this government talks about support, it should be support for all farmers, all good farmers, and it should be support and protection of Czech agriculture, negotiation of equal conditions for our people in Brussels, market protection, promotion of competitiveness, halting the liquidation of our farms and promoting food self-sufficiency. And if we let numbers speak, the Czech Republic has more so-called large businesses. Yes, industrial large farms dominate our agriculture. We have the highest average size of one farm from all EU Member States. But what is this big farm really? It is how many times an association of tens or hundreds of small owners or small cooperatives who had a choice at the time of the transformation - either they could leave or stay in the cooperative. Then the cooperatives transformed, and those who remained are part of the big business today and benefit from it. Therefore, when the fiery acts of combative politicians degenerate large businesses, their anger does not only interfere with the owners and management of these businesses, but it also hurts thousands of normal people who do their jobs, and if they could talk, but somehow nobody asks them, they would certainly commend the actions of their managers. I strongly warn against the campaign in the name of so-called support for small and medium-sized agriculture. Let's be careful not to harm those small and medium-sized people who are associated with large functioning farms at the same time. The Czech Government should proudly defend the tradition and quality of Czech agriculture in Brussels and negotiate conditions that will support all farmers. As a person, I can understand that whoever doesn't like Mr. Babiš doesn't like Agrofert either, but as an MP, as an entrepreneur and as a manager, I can't accept that this company has become a stick that you're gonna blow up every dog you don't like. And it's the big business that's become the dogs you're ratting out. And again, something about your empty phrases - an ordinary fact: the new government hasn't started working properly yet, and it already has people on the streets. It's only been a few hours since the farmers demonstrated in front of the Office of the Government. It is a pity that our independent media has now paid so little attention to this problem. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there was a protest by farmers against the government's nonnegotiation and discrimination committed on agriculture. And through the copy machine, it's the same story as with the removal of the Director of the les. Again in those eight days when Deputy Minister Jurečka managed the Ministry of Agriculture, he redesigned a long-term processed material called the Strategic Plan without discussing it with those involved, namely farmers. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is why farmers had to hit the streets. Because a government that wants to act politely, honestly and professionally, this government has secretly and quickly redesigned the material discussed and approved, and suddenly - the world, wonders - ignores the EU's procedure that changes in it must be discussed with those involved. Is that a coincidence? Is that a mistake? Or is it a demonstration of the style of governance that we can all expect now? In fact, I must thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for showing us how they intend to influence the agenda of other ministries, ignore the rules and use political power. The new government parties celebrated the election results by wanting change. I hope so, I don't know. But in any case, I believe they all wanted a competent government and experts in the management of the departments. So let us now look at Green Deal, which is rashly and indisputably pushed into the life of the whole EU. You have already accepted without a blink of an eye and without a fight, and in the government's programming statement, you are saying that a quarter of the agricultural land will move into the organic farming regime by 2030. The Minister of the Environment said that farmers would receive - and I quote - "some subsidy financial condition that would speed up their decisions" and I heard from her mouth: "This will all be reflected in grant programs." But he still doesn't know how much and how much it's going to be financed. But that is precisely what is most important for farmers. At European level, it is still only strategies that are not binding. Their implementation is conditional on the emergence of follow-up European legislation. But we still don't know how to continue trading in the new EU. If they're still doing what's forbidden in our country, please, we don't solve problems, but we're moving them to another place on the planet. Food is imported into the EU differently. We drive it all from right to left, left to right, top to bottom, and vice versa. No one is concerned, not even the Greens, with a carbon footprint, but everyone is concerned and hypocritically forcing us the idea that European countries need to stop producing carbon dioxide in order to prevent the warming of the earth's climate. But that EU countries are only 7 percent involved in CO2 discharges, no one seems to care. Who will deal with the more than 90 percent of the emissions of countries that, however, do not solve anything at all? [[22.30 hours]] Green Deal's problem is that its impact on Europe's economy will be huge, financially challenging, and citizens will be involved. And that's what we need to tell these people. That's not just state money. They're gonna have to reach into their wallets, too. Does the Czech citizen even know that we are a very ecological country? That large enterprises also have organic farming and that we are in fertilization and chemical treatment on lower data than for example. German farmers who are so often set as examples? The Government's task and the task of the Minister of Agriculture is to defend his country, represent companies that implement the state budget, and citizens, and not recklessly approach everything that comes from Brussels. As part of the water management, I really welcomed your sentence: We will support the return of the water management infrastructure to the ownership of the municipalities. - The way I understand it, the coalition will actually remove what the ODS and the ČSSD have done. During the wild years, the blue team did not hesitate and in many regions without scruples, they handed over the management of Czech water wealth to mostly foreign companies. Profits have flowed abroad all the time, our people are still paying more and more, and the technical state of our water network is not visible at all. So the people of the National Property Fund and the local political gallows were involved. First, they marked the profitable parts of the waterworks to subsequently transfer all these profits into the hands of large groups through long-term contracts for twenty to thirty years, and the first 20-year contracts will run out in the coming years. And so it was possible to promise people a little bit, wasn't it? But you will do absolutely nothing but wait for time to run out. And I don't think that if people from some sides are still sucked into the waterworks, the will will not move the helm too fast. And if distribution networks come back, I guarantee you that they will be housed and all the costs of their reconstruction will be borne by who? The village? Cities? Stop? Our citizens' wallets? That's really called a good deal. And you really need to ask - who was it for, who for what and how much? And think about these questions, please, citizens. I opened my speech with a non-standard appeal from the director of the Forests of the Czech Republic, so I will stop by for a while. In your statement, we will change our approach to ownership policy and set long-term goals. But we know the long-term goal. The state is in charge of all policies towards forests, it is designed to motivate the regions to use the funds allocated from the state budget to regional budgets to support forest management. Sometimes it works better, sometimes worse, but it needs to be checked. The state company Lesa ČR manages over a million hectares of forest, which, as you know, has undergone a crusty calamity in recent years to the extent that the defense does not have. pan Vojáček, the director who has just been called away, and his colleagues have managed to stabilise the business and reorganize it, which has been mentioned as the main reason for its appeal. The company has a simpler structure after the reorganisation, it is operatingly cheaper, more efficient and significantly profitable. Those are just numbers. So according to what parameters is the reorganisation assessed? We know that Mr. Jurečka, as Minister of Agriculture, has not been much help to the les. At the meeting of the Agricultural Committee, I called on Mr Szórád, the former director of the Forests of the Czech Republic, to become interested in the beginning - and I say the beginning - of the barking issue. It was at a time when the calamity began to take on the procedure, and it was desirable for Highness to move with legislation and coordination at the level of government. Unfortunately, nothing happened. Only after Mr. Jurečka left and after Mr. Vojáček's arrival things moved forward. In light of these memories, it is no surprise that one will wonder whether, with the furious speed at which Mr Marian Jurečka took advantage of only eight days when he was in charge of the Ministry of Agriculture, to appeal the director of a functioning enterprise, this is not the processing of personal accounts. And I firmly hope that the head of the Christian party is capable of self-esteem, that is, looking at himself and his behavior with eyes other than the view of his own interest. And I hope other members of the government are able to do that. But hope isn't enough. This government has not yet been appointed for 30 days, and its actions already indicate its future course of action. And it is not possible to build the country's fate on hope that it will not be what it looks like today, that we will wake up tomorrow, and that government authorities will suddenly control people informed, competent, with expertise and managerial skills surrounded by expert advisors, listening to the needs of people and capable of making their own decisions for which they are fully responsible. It would be great, but the first steps of this cabinet don't give me that kind of hope. And that's why the government doesn't have my trust. I place this trust on the criticisms of concrete steps and concrete people. I have often mentioned Mr Marian Jurečka in my speech, and the reason is the only one. Mr. Jurečka entered the area which is my heart, but he did not act fair there and did not act in the interests of Czech agriculture. I've devoted my life to agriculture as much as he has. Even here in the House, I always come to the point of pointing out the risks, asking the reasons for the proposed measures and having answers for my constituents. That is why I have focused my attention only on the agricultural area and parts of it have also affected the environment. It is sad what has happened in the agricultural sector in so few days when you sit in the places of ministers. Criticism should be constructive. In the past, I have called for construction in opposition, and today I actually offer this role. I know the problems that both farmers and citizens suffer, and I offer maximum support and synergies to the current Minister of Agriculture. Whoever it is with the government, my primary priority is that we all do well and remember that today we decide how our children and future generations will live. It's not just about four years of government. It's about creating the future. And I beg you, let us correct the legacy of our ancestors, gentlemen and ladies, wisely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u143	Another one entered in the debate, but with priority rights is Minister Jurečka. In the meantime, I will read an apology from Mrs Helena Válková, who apologizes from 22.06. to the end of the day because of illness. Please, Minister, you have the opportunity to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, colleagues, let me also speak in this part of the debate. I think it's about time for us to respond more slowly, but there's still 19 entries, so I'm sure there'll be room to engage in this debate repeatedly. I'll allow myself to sum things up. I listened well to the Prime Minister here, when he began his hour and a half as a politician who entered politics with a word not to gossip, but to speak to the point. I don't think a guy needs an hour and a half to talk about it, but let's let everyone see how he sees fit. I have to agree with some of his short passages, which I've also been shaking my head around here. For example, when he said that people blame him and his government for the extremely rapid debt. I had to agree to that, of course, because that's true, that's true. It's not like anyone blames him. Just an increase in debt by practically CZK 830 billion over the last two years, that's really an astronomical amount. And it would certainly be okay if, for example, 80 percent of the money was directed to the direct aid to people affected in the Czech Republic by the covideo pandemic, companies and others. And then if you look at the detailed analysis, the 830 billion of that debt went to that direct aid not half. I remember the former Minister of Finance, as she spoke in the media and said - the aid will be CZK 1.2 trillion, one of the lowest in comparison with the countries in Europe. Finally, you will find that, as the Czech Republic, we have really indebted ourselves to this government, we will all pay it, our children and the interest, absolutely literally, but the help simply was far from adequate to the debt. So that's the first such observation to begin with. [[2.40 hours]] Then I have to say, when there were various remarks about how many of us sit in one row or in the other row, I think it's also perfectly fair to say, when they put this criticism here, that there were governments, when Miloš Zeman, the current president, or, for example, Václav Klaus, the former president, when those governments had more members of the government. And I think so, yes, you can twist your head at me, dear fellow Nacher, through Madam President, but you can involve Wikipedia, look at me, and there have been many of those members of the government. But it's good to join the debate and then possibly react to it, contradict. But all I'm saying is that we're in a situation where the government's evaluation is not based on the number of its members, but on the results and it's perfectly okay for the opposition to ask about those results in the coming months, in the coming years, at the end of the parliamentary term. Because I felt when I listened to some of you, that some opposition colleagues here mistook it for the first week of October, when some former members of the government appeared here and read us their wannabe work results from the paper. We are today in January 2022, and many of these colleagues have been dedicated to presenting something that didn't have anything to do with the government material. And if you're writing it yourself, or maybe some of it's written by someone else, then I'm going to ask for relevant, true information. For example, one of the previous speakers said that in municipalities, cities, and regions, the cost of testing will not be covered. So please, nicely Members of this House, if you are watching what Minister Válek has presented and it has been repeated in the media, he has clearly said: this will be paid for. So I'm giving a message to those who are writing you those background texts, let them put relevant, true information in here, so there's something that's obviously not true. I think government communication is really different. We don't watch an hour, an hour and a quarter of the press conference, which I and many other people and the whole company could watch when the Prime Minister said something else at the beginning, the Minister of Health said something else, or even the information was so that during the day the information changed three times, it changed three times. The Minister decided, the Prime Minister changed, the Minister reacted somehow. You don't watch anything like that here. You do not follow a government that gives decisions that, in the order of a few days, abolishes an administrative court on the grounds of citizens' actions. We watch out for these things. We say in advance after consultation with representatives of those to whom it touches, what measures can be expected. Yes, we are in a situation, and I admit it, and I have often said so in this House, when you were in government, that we, too, would certainly make mistakes in the first wave. Anyone would make them who was there, but some mistakes that took place after almost two years, so they were just mistakes that can't be apologized after that. Then we also listened here from some of our colleagues and colleagues to the fact that I was a person who might have been riding a tractor. I think many Members have different hobbies. Someone rides motorcycles, somebody has old cars and stuff. I am proud that I am a man who was born in a village, came from a peasant and agricultural environment, and I am also happy to return to this in my life, and I am also a person who has also dealt with some other areas of work in the Social Commission within the Olomouc Region, which has been a member of the Charity Council for the last four years, I am a person who, when the Member said that she did not see me on the Social Committee, I have seen her there several times, because I have been there to defend the bills and amendments that I tabled as a Member in the past period. And if you look into the House system, you'll find a few dozen prints related to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So I've been trying to focus on this issue, and I think that even with the tractor, in some exceptional situations, you can help people. So I wouldn't be such a joke around here. I think it's important that either one of us, no matter what area we've come from, should be evaluated by the results. If anyone's legal education and they're doing the finance department, we're supposed to evaluate it by the results. If there's someone who came from the Association of Small Entrepreneurs and Trades and did the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Industry and Trade first, we're to evaluate it by the results, we're not to evaluate it by where the person came from or what his education is. That is what I think is the first rule and fundamental in the way politics is supposed to work. Please don't read the haunting papers here that Antivirus programs have been stopped or canceled. We said that Antivirus A is going on, and Antivirus B we said that we were suspending him, that we weren't disturbing him, and that if the situation required it, we would restore him. Meanwhile, we intensively want to complete the notification of cursarbeit as an aid that is addressed, targeted and is a more effective tool. That's what we agreed on when we were here in opposition, you were a government coalition, so you yourself admitted that we needed to tighten this up and that it was a better tool. Then I will allow myself to comment, I will only briefly correct my honored colleague Margit Balaštíková. I was Minister of Agriculture for 18 days, not eight. It's a little technical. And when the president appoints you as a member of the government, he gives you that decree, and it's not there that he gives you temporary credentials. He writes to you, and the President of the Republic is signed under it, it is a constitutional act, and he says: I appoint you Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. You have full responsibility at that moment for the resort, and I don't personally care if I'm gonna be there for a week, two weeks, or how long, because we didn't know exactly how the situation was going to turn out. And the decisions I've made, I stand by them very clearly, and now I'm going to say the reason. Let me give you some concrete examples of why I decided to call off Director General Vojáček. In the course of last year, I, my colleague Minister Jana Černochová, at that time a Member, and some others pointed out both on the ground of the Chamber of Deputies, and on the committee meetings with which the actions were taken, which concern not only the reorganisation of the structure of the Forests of the Czech Republic, the abolition of certain forest administrations, which did not make sense in the field, why it is abolished and it is assembled into huge units, why people who have been competent, who have been doing good work there for decades, and people from outside who are unable to cope with the work and competence. That was one plane. And the crucial one that we pointed out was the gigantic exchange of assets between the Forests of the Czech Republic and the Military Forests and the farmland, 32,000 hectares prepared for the exchange without approval and approval by the Supervisory Board, without expert opinions. The story began by saying that there is a need to change some of the land between these two state enterprises. Okay, that was fine. Then some mysteriously, very quickly, about 80 percent of the volume of the land that was glued to that shift. In fact, none of the professional public was able to explain why, for what reasons, and it was approved. I am convinced, and I entered this when I was Minister of Agriculture, appointed to the Director-General, to see if it was in accordance with Czech law and internal regulations and if these internal regulations were not violated. No one here has been able to explain meaningfully why this gigantic shift of 32,000 hectares, which suddenly changes out of nowhere, why it is done, why a large set of land is being removed from the Forests of the Czech Republic, which were transferred to the Military Forests and Farms in places where the army has no active activity and no interest. Why? And as Minister, I was in a situation where if we wanted to stop it, check it, change these parameters of the shift, then I'm not gonna do it with the CEO who prepared the shift and did it. So I made it clear: managerial, organizational error plus this question of this shift. That was two reasons. And now, Mrs Balaštíková, through Madam President, I will say to you, even here for the public and for colleagues, even some specific figures that illustrate the way in which the company is managed and managed, which cannot be ignored. When I look at the four years when I was Minister of Agriculture, we met the outsourcing of legal services, which we did with external legal companies during the time of the religious restitutions when the legal disputes were difficult, exceptionally by these legal services, and in those four years, for the whole four years, when I faced the first year with the fact that there were still commitments that I was unable to terminate so quickly, and I had to reach the contracts, so in four years it was CZK 114 million for external legal services. Under your government, under your Prime Minister, and in less than four years' time - because I don't have the figures from the end of 2021, I only have a part of that year - that was CZK 226 million. So a comparison of CZK 114 million and CZK 226 million, when there has been a rocket increase over the last two years of your government. There are contracts concluded with private law firms under very special conditions. [[2.50 hours]] So don't argue with the former CEO here as a great manager, because I can say more and more of these mistakes here. I introduced some. That's another reason why, when I came to the Department of Agriculture, I didn't see any reason why this person should stay in this position for one more day. I've been following his work, I've been pointing out his work on this House's soil. He was unable to explain these steps, he was unable to give them a rational defense, and it is full of the Minister's right to come and say simply: This person is not doing a good job in that position and there is no reason to postpone the decision. So, so much for the question you mentioned here. And I'm just a minister, either agriculture or today's work and social affairs, I'm not gonna stand for it to go rogue and rob that resort. I really don't. So much for this question. Now maybe I can make a comment. I get it, it's a debate, it's a special vote, and you come in, you tell us the arguments, and you always end up with some of you telling us that that's why you can't give us that trust. I confess that I didn't come here to ask for your trust, the representatives of these two political parties. Indeed, I have come here to ask for the trust of the members of our coalition, our 108 Members, because I do not really ask for the trust of those who have ruled for the last four years with the Communists who have brought this country into the situation in which we are. We have here a clear parliamentary majority that was given in the elections... [[Members of the opposition parties are pounding into the benches.]] ... the clear parliamentary majority given to us in the elections, and the testimony to you, your work, your cooperation with the Social Democrats and Communists, has given you the voters, the citizens of this country. That is why we are coming and we have said clearly in advance: Such an election result, we will not negotiate with Andrej Babiš. We weren't discussing anything, there was nothing to talk about, because there was a clear will expressed here, and we have a majority here today, and that's what we're leaning on. Of course I respect your reservations, your suggestions, your comments. We don't have to agree and in many ways we won't. The Social Committee has been said - and this is now true of the House plenary: I will always work with Members and Members of the opposition on meaningful matters. I did the same thing as Minister Sobotkův's government. When opposition representatives came from the right hand side and asked me as minister that they wanted to prepare an amendment, the Ministry was always there to meet them. I have never done this as some members of the former government, that the servants of the ministry could communicate with Members of this House only with the consent of the Minister or Minister and they had to know what matters they were communicating. I'll never do such a policy, I'm ready to cooperate. Let me make a note of the strategic plan. I met with the farmers before Christmas. There was also a meeting with representatives of NGOs between Christmas holidays. That's where Zdeněk Nekula was at the time as future minister. He also communicates and meets representatives of agricultural NGOs. We didn't do anything where you, Madame, said we'd do it quietly and so forth. We had a clear electoral agenda, in which we clearly had worked out chapters of agriculture and the environment, and it was logical that the priorities we had would be included in the strategic plan. He's been preparing for two years. Yes, I also went to some working groups, yes, but opposition representatives had virtually no voice to influence those parameters in any way. Some NGOs and the Department of Agriculture had that voice. So it's logical when a five-calice comes in here with clear priorities and a clear idea of how the strategic plan will adjust, so that it will. Yes, under time pressure. I'm also saying it wasn't comfortable. I would have imagined that we would have done this more peacefully, but we were appointed as government on the 17th, and we just have time in the order of two, three, four weeks. But I think it's for the benefit of this country because we're going through things that are and are going to better protect the soil, water, water resources, greater biodiversity of the landscape. Aids relating to sensitive commodities relating to livestock production relating to farmers in mountain and sub-mountain areas remain there. We didn't lower our co-financing and we said, "We're reporting to him." But it's just logical - and I think any reasonable person might know - that if this government is established by the end of the year, it will simply take these steps. So much reaction to some of the facts that were said here in the debate. I am prepared to continue the debate, I will be happy to discuss arguments, such as economic figures, expenditures, where money went to legal services, where money went to IT, because there is quite a lot to discuss here, and we can show the citizens of this country how economically and effectively they managed in favour of this state or for other groups that liked the imaginary struk and profited from it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u145	Now, Mrs Maříková will have to wait. It is necessary to clarify here whether President Schillerová has applied with facts or with priority... No, so they're prerogative... de facto. But it is not yet yours, Mrs Balaštíková, because Mr Vondráček, who has done so before, has also applied with fact. That's why I need your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u146	Thank you for the floor. I couldn't take it. Dear Minister, although you have tried to take us by the heart here, how you have taken over the decree from the President and how you have full responsibility here. You know, this is where everything is recorded, this is where it's all written down. I heard from you here in 2017, 2018 how a government without trust should drown and shine. You don't have that trust yet, you've been in office for 18 days, and you're firing people. After you applied to that factual remark - I too signed up - you still had a beautiful speech about the arrogance of the majority. Then you tried to ease it, you realized you overreacted, but we took a picture. We'll be here for another four years. Work on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u147	Now, then, Mrs Balaštíková's factual comment. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u148	Minister, through Madam President, I did not say that you had no legal right to do so. I said, if you were listening, it was a moral right that you shouldn't have done. I'm so happy for your speech. He's been a little ahead of me, co-worker Vondráček, because you've shown us what you mean. I wrote that speech myself. No one ever writes it to me. My colleague, I have considered some things and I see that I have described exactly what it is and what it will be like here. Thank you for what you said, but unfortunately, you've caused trouble for Minister Nekul, because I'm really going to interpel here, I'm going to want to know these things. I'll be coming back to the last few years. As a Member, I have the right to do so and I intend to take advantage of it. I wonder if you'll talk like that in a year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u149	Another factual point is that of Mr Nacher, that is the last factual point so far. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u150	Thank you. I'm sorry, I have to respond, too, because I don't really understand the performances of these coalition officials. Except for the exceptions, there was first a colleague Žáček, and now Minister Jurečka, who instead of answering... or he partially replied, but it always begins with the fact that he actually insults the opposition MPs, and, on the one hand, by not writing it down or seeing it before, and now suddenly he walks to the microphone. There's an insult, there's crazy arrogance of the type - you guys talk whatever you want, we have the trust of the 108, we didn't really need to hear you. [[23.00 hours]] If it wasn't in the Rules of Procedure, you probably wouldn't even be sitting here, however carefully you were watching us four years ago. I don't understand this. On the one hand, the Prime Minister here says that he honors the Chamber of Deputies, but by every speech of the Coalition Members, you prove that this is not the case. Can't you react normally? Can't you answer normally, having a debate on the first day? What's it gonna look like in six months, a year? I really... let the audience, of course, take a picture of whether it's even being watched like this, but start by insulting the MPs, whether they write or not, whether they're going down or reading it, and who's writing it to them, what's the level of this? Is this a matter of fact? Are those the answers? And as for the appeal, no appeal, so did I. There's this disproportion that we're drawing attention to, because in those points where it suits you, you say, we've only been there three weeks or only four weeks, and where it doesn't suit you, with those personnel changes, you can be there for three days, and you're throwing away. And that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u151	Thank you for keeping him. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the President of the ANO Alena Schillerová parliamentary club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u152	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will respond to Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, as I quickly managed to make notes. Well, you're a total superman, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. You're talking about agriculture, not the Department of Labour, it was just very... finance. I guess that's because we don't have the Treasury Secretary here almost all night or night, in the afternoon. You guys have been discussing so well... I don't get involved in agriculture, I don't understand what I don't understand, I don't get involved in it, but I've been in the public administration for almost my entire professional life, and now for four years, I've been in a similar position to you, even though at another resort, and, you know, I've always followed who you fall for. That means, when I found out about the injustice, the impulse, and so on, a professional team of auditors, the inspectors went, no matter what resort, and when he found out about the iniquities, the officials did it - I didn't even care about it, it was their duty. So I would have expected a professional minister, and you've been ministering for the second time, if I recall, he'll do the same - he'll order an audit, he'll order control. But you're a superman, and I don't give a damn about it, I don't know the issue, and unfortunately, the Agriculture Minister can't defend himself, he's not in active politics anymore, and I don't even know the CEO, I don't know anything about it. That's the only way I'd do it: audit, check, fall in. But you're probably gonna look at it, and in three days, you're gonna see how it's supposed to be. Then you treat farmers so successfully that I read in the media that there was some demonstration. But you will forget to deal with tripartite - that has never happened to our government - before you lower wages. So these are just some very big contradictions you've made here. Not to mention the fact that you're no longer in the election campaign, they probably didn't tell you. But I'd rather respond to another thing. Why did you suspend the Antivirus program? What's the reason? I have never been very happy with this program, because of course it cost a lot of money, but there were some rules set up, very much wanted by the business unions, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport. They all called for it very much, and the program was finally here, even though it was from the MPSV workshop and we had a debate about it all the time, so in the end also the parliamentary committee from the former opposition was named the second most successful after the compensation bonus from the Ministry of Finance workshop. In the end, the only thing left for those entrepreneurs is what they have now. The financial administration has already started paying it off, I read it in the media this week, so thank God we had enough to prepare it. Why did you stop him? We started it up again in December at the request and the appeal of these unions, I think, "B," "A," of course, goes on - quarantines, "B" are obstacles. We launched, generated 1.4 billion, largely from European money, and the program ran. I'm sure those applications were filed. So you've suspended it now to examine it? The program has existed for two years, it has been reviewed in detail here by the former opposition. There are control mechanisms today, because you've criticized how many times that labour offices are strict - and they've just done their job - that the follow-up check is bureaucratic. So why did you stop it now? That doesn't make sense. And it's not necessary, Mr. Vice Prime Minister - to keep my back from you, so I'm turning this one around, it's out of courtesy - isn't it, like, you can't do it in a provisional now? Isn't it necessary that you admit it? That it fell into the so-called unused expenditures, the spent money from past years, and you just can't draw it from the provisionals? Maybe it'll be the whole truth. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] He could answer the Minister of Industry and Trade, I don't want to bother him, I know he's here for a while, he's probably not from politics like you, seasoned matadors. Couldn't he come in and say when the covid programs start paying off, so how did my honored colleague Taťána Malá ask here? She read the story. I'm getting those stories too, I could read you other stories from my phone right now, where cab drivers are writing to me today, which is almost like my family, taxi drivers here, here from Prague and around. With those I wrote about all the compensation bonuses, they write to me again: We have problems again, no one answers us. Then write it down and that before the Minister gets settled in. Unfortunately, he's not the Minister of Finance, or I would have told him, of course. [[Minister of Finance Stanjura from the bench: Here I am.]] Yeah, well, the cab drivers are texting me, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. I'll forward it to you later. Couldn't you, Minister, be so very kind, really polite to you, with great courtesy, and come here and say on the microphone, citizens are watching us at this advanced hour when you start those covido programs, so how did my next colleague, Mr Havlíček, politely ask you? When? They were technically prepared, so just put the money in there and pay if that's possible in the budget make-up. I have great doubts about it. If you don't know the budget, you don't know how much money there's gonna be. The Minister keeps saying that all subsidies to business entities - Minister of Finance, once again, there were 68 billion for 2022, not 125, you keep saying it in the media, it's not true, 125 was there in 2021, because there was covido help, so it was still not wrong. I can tell you the items the biggest are there. So maybe come tell these people when it's gonna be. When the Uncovered Costs, COVID 2021, when you start paying it off because they're asking, they still only have a compensatory bonus now. So that would be great if it were said here. And the last thing that really touched me... no, it's not going to touch me very much, I'm really, thank God, a calm person. And if you remember, we're never the YES movement - or remind me, I'm not aware of it - the YES movement never took, I didn't use that word, it almost sounded that way, about some of your connection with us after the election. We've acted completely pragmatically, we can count. We immediately evaluated - even if we won on the mandates - we can console ourselves, even if we won on the parties, we all know that, but the winner is the one who builds the government. We acknowledged this pragmatically and ended up in opposition. We take it with humility, we take it as an experience. Can't you see we're perfectly calm? No government has ever given a demise as quickly as ours. We served it at 7:30 a.m. after the set-up meeting. That's a sign of democracy, so what are you blaming us for? I thought you were here, and you're an experienced politician... [[to Minister Jureček]] ... experienced very, you've been here for years, we've always had a debate here, you've been here reading me these stories. Now I'll read them to you. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] Thank you. And I thought you'd come to ask the Chamber of Deputies for trust, and not just, you're the lower categories of Members, and I'm only asking for the higher category of Members. [[23.10 hours]] Every man has always been worth the same to me. Wherever I was working, whether he was working in the mailroom when he was doing his job right or working in some high management position. For me, every person is as valuable as he is to me as he is to me - and I believe that for most of you - every Member in this Chamber of Deputies. And please, my honourable colleague Radek Vondráček has already said this a little bit: the YES movement has - and we thank our voters very much for this - 72 Members. And I think even today's debate shows that it's very powerful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u153	Your performance brought up two factual points. They are therefore specifically from Mr Marian Jurečka, so the Minister is the first, followed by the factual remark made by Minister Černochová. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u154	Thank you very much. In order not to have the public, and above all the entrepreneurs, I am responding, and the former Minister is also an experienced politician, and we have been having these debates here for a long time while she was Deputy Minister of Finance. Just so we're clear. I'm sure she knows, but I understand that at this time of night, it may not be completely distinguishable. If Antivirus A is still in the budget commission after 1 January and we pay it back and we pay it back, there is logically no restriction within the budget commission. If necessary, we'll re-start Antivirus B and cash it in. There's no limit in terms of budget make-up. I stopped him because when I looked at the requests in November and December, the drawdown is diametrically different than it was in the spring, the situation is different, there is no blockdown and we are considering and assessing how the situation will continue to develop, for example, depending on the micron. That is clear, we have said this, and there is no need to scare people and entrepreneurs, that it would not be possible to pay these support on account of budgetary make-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u155	Thank you, too. Madame Černochová, I apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u156	I would like to ask Mrs Schillerová where she was when the exchange of land between the Military Forests and the Forests of the Czech Republic was discussed with the government, which Minister Jurečka and I stopped practically three days before the deadline for the entry into force of the so-called innominate treaty, which dealt with land exchanges in an unprecedented manner, where it was indeed, I will say the word, a tunnel in broad daylight. Where have you been, Mrs. Schillerová? How did you vote? Have you voted in favour or abstained? You, guardian of the register, didn't care that you didn't have an expert opinion on that? You didn't care that you didn't have any plans for the land? You were not interested in the fact that the Military Forests give the division Mimoň, which accounts for 40 percent of the profit in the entire company State Forests, that it gives for an entirely inadequate exchange, for the land of the Forests of the Czech Republic? You didn't care about that as a cashier? Isn't that strange? [[Strong applause from the right.]] You, Mrs Schillerová, weren't you interested in the fact that the former Director of the Král I called off signed a contract for the purchase of cars worth CZK 90 million on the day I called him off? Check the contract register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u157	It raised further factual points again, so I will ask the Minister to remain, he has applied with priority rights, but President Schillerová has priority with de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u158	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. Antivirus A, Antivirus B are completely different things. Antivirus A is about change, a few crowns, it's about people in quarantine. Antivirus B, of course, is already about obstacles and we're talking about amounts that are definitely hundreds of millions, maybe even units of billions. Just - I know what I'm talking about, don't worry, I know. The question of the Secretary of Defense. So I wasn't Secretary of Defense, I'm calling on my ex-government colleague now to explain. [[Mrs Cernochová: You were a member of the government.]] I was a member of the government. You understand that at this point, the one who knows the detail will respond. I asked him to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u159	Please don't yell at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u160	Please don't yell at me. Yes, thank you, Madam President. And I think that... and I'm not gonna defend it, I don't personally know the details, I can't know the details of everything. I definitely had an opinion on that, but I assume you've done some audits, too. Or are you a superman, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u161	Another factual point, namely Mr Lubomír Metnar, is then followed by the factual remark made by Minister Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u162	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I'm kind of in the amazement of what I'm looking at and I'm watching here right now, and I'm hearing this debate because I'm saying that we're probably getting into a situation where we're here to ignore the Supreme Audit Office's findings, because this whole shift, which was started by the Ministry of Defence, was based on the SAO's findings. And all I've heard so far is speculation that there's something wrong here and that I'm just going to say something for the Ministry of Defence in relation to the Military Forests and Property: this exchange has been prepared with the Ministry of Agriculture for quite a long time. It was discussed with trade unions, with individual divisions, was discussed on the supervisory boards of the given companies and was approved. In this regard, the Security Service has also been communicated with the Security Service to comment on this. There was no information that there was something wrong. On the contrary, I was wondering what it meant by, say, emotions in business relationships and ties, because behind-the-scenes information that was coming was that there was saving and settlement, and stopping even, some of the moneyheads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u163	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, the Minister's point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u164	Mr. Metnar, you may have missed one essential fact. Everything you just said was related to the original proposal, including the SAO's finding, where only about 20 percent of what was being exchanged in the finals for you under your government. If you were in charge of the Department of Defense so that you didn't notice that in the meantime, 20 percent of the assets became the completely unprecedented exchange trade, when you didn't even object that someone from the Military Forests included the Mimoň division, whose annual economic result is about CZK 185 million, when the entire economic result of the Military Forests is some CZK 380 million and you sacrificed Mimoň without blinking, I asked your then Deputy Klučka how it happened? He told me that you were about 20 years old at the meeting with Minister Toman, only you went to Minister Toman's office, and when you came out, you ordered Mimoň to do it. So don't lie to us here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u165	Another in the order of factual remarks is President Schillerová, followed by Mr Metnar. Please, Madam President, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u166	Secretary Černochová asked me how I voted. In the meantime, I've checked, because you understand that I can't remember all the votes in four years, but I remember the important ones. So I didn't vote because none of the members of the government voted. That was part of the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u167	Thank you for keeping time. Another factual point by Mr. Metnar, so far. And not the last one... You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u168	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I absolutely must reject this lashing of lies here and, on the other hand, I am very sorry, because I do not know what meeting you are talking about when I was introduced to the outcome of the preparation of this shift, so it was in the Office of the Minister of Defence, at my department in the presence of the workers and the deputy from both departments, so I do not know what negotiations you are talking about. I'm really surprised, and let's say this cliché - tell me, and I personally didn't find out there was something wrong, and I think we're all talking about a different shift here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u169	Now, then, Minister Černochová, with a factual view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u170	Mrs Schillerová, even though you have something on the government in C and it is quietly discussed there, you are voting on it, and you are voting in favour of, of course, read the Rules of Procedure. And if you thought you weren't gonna vote on something for four years, it's even worse than we all think.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u171	The following is the factual comment made by President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u172	Madam Secretary, please, you have part of the debate, there is a vote, you have part B without debate, that is voted as a whole, and then you have part for information, that is not voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u173	I no longer see any further factual point, i.e. the preferential right of Minister Síkela. This is followed again with priority rights by Minister Stanjura. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u174	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a statement on the progress, on the one hand, on some of the issues that have been raised here today. I originally planned to come to the end, to listen to all the questions and comments, to sit here all the time, to run only in the most necessary cases, and I made about eight pages of notes. But since the former Minister of Finance has challenged me, I will answer some questions now. But before I begin, please allow me to say the following. It's my first time here today. I speak for the first time in the House - I have spoken in various forums, but it is the first time in the House, and I would like to return to Mr. Nacher and Mr. Ondráček's remarks about who was insulting who here. [[Correct Vondraèek]] So let me look at the person who's here for the first time. I recorded our Prime Minister's speech on the programming statement, presented our priorities, took about half an hour, and we applauded him with dignity. Then followed by the speech of former Prime Minister Babiš, where he insulted my government colleagues, the banking board for laughing from the left wing and the following French applause in the style of Kim Čong-Uno's speeches. That was my first impression, and that's who set up today's culture. [[Let's hear it.]] Come in. I would like to touch on some of the bad information or the untruths that have been said here. The first was that the Czech National Bank is the only bank that raises interest. This is not true, because interest was raised by the Polish National Bank, Hungarian, Romanian, Norway, the FED announced that it would end quantitative easing by the end of March, stop buying bonds and announce a triple increase in interest rates by the end of the year. I would like to point out that inflation in the United States is significantly lower than in our country, so the Czech National Bank is not the only one raising interest, the information was wrong and misleading. But I don't want to comment on the board's decision. The second thing that was said here - there was talk of a bond as Mrs Schillerová's product. I would like to point out that the history of bonds is long, the first indications of the use of bond securities are already in the time of the Alexandrian, i.e. 300 BC. [[Laughter, applause from the coalition.]] I myself was in the issue of dozens of bonds for various governments, including a hundred-year bond for the city of Vienna, and I never dared to mark that product as mine. [[Let's hear it for the coalition.]] You mentioned here that you found the money. [[Laughter from the coalition.]] Money may be found somewhere in the woods or at the bus stop. You didn't find any money, you borrowed it and you owed it even more, you indebted our children, so please, let's respect the exact technical terms, as well as the concept of industrial power. The greatness is used as a term from the Vienna Congress from 1814 to 1815 and is referred to as superpowers as states that, thanks to their economic, military, diplomatic or cultural powers, have a decisive influence on international relations. Unfortunately, we don't even have that in the industry. So we're an industrial state, you're right about that, but we're definitely not an industrial power. There. I have noted a lot of questions in the MIT section regarding the programming declaration. Where we are with Green Deal, electromobility, Dukovany, hydrogen, lithium, National Recovery Plan, National Investment Plan and so on. We, as far as the government's programming declaration is concerned, have approached all the unions, received a lot of comments from them, and we could go through the paper, which we accepted, which we rejected and which we did not accept, because we had incorporated them in our material with a different formulation. These unions don't seem to see our part of the programming statement as critical as you do. The programme statement is a strategic document and therefore it is not possible to include everything and in great detail in it, and that was precisely the reason why we couldn't complete all the comments, and we didn't really want to. As for Dukovany's question, you said you prepared everything. You said you prepared the National Recovery Plan, the National Investment Plan, funding and everything. I admit that in some of those areas, if I was still in the corporation, I'd probably do something like a forensic audit. We don't have the time to do this, but there are areas where my approval for this readiness isn't quite that big, and before we decide how we're gonna proceed, we're gonna do one more analysis, if there's no problem with that decision in the future. This may, for example, apply to the tender for the power plant or the drawdown from the National Recovery Plan, where, if the drawdowns are not carried out in accordance with European Union rules, they will not be compensated from these sources. So much for the programming statement. [[23.30 hours]] And then the question of how we're going to proceed with compensation. I've put a lot of work into asking my coworkers at the Ministry to send me a list of all those who drew more money on all the programs. At first they squirmed like snakes, then they sent lines that couldn't be reconfused, but eventually we got what we wanted. Then we did more work, and within the individual programs, we linked all the companies so that we could get into the economically linked groups, which means that we can account for who at the end of the day was the end user's advantage of the compensation, who got all the money in this country. And I'll admit I was shocked by the list. I got the impression that the helicopter money was being spent here, regardless of whether it would help anyone, whether the money would be used effectively and if it would help those who needed it most. It seems absurd to me if the Czech Republic's taxpayers' money compensates for the profits of companies that are likely to go abroad after the general meetings that will take place sometime in the summer of this year. That means, if you ask me how we're going to proceed, then I'll tell you that, of course, the money, the tens of billions are missing today, and the absurd thing is that the little ones didn't get it, Mr. Former Minister. You represented the Union of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs, but the money, as I saw it, they got primarily the big ones who weren't in loss, the big ones who had reserves, the big ones who maybe if something hadn't been compensated, they would have had smaller profits, but they would have survived. So we're missing the money now, and I'm saying for myself, if it's absolutely not necessary, we're not going to be handing out the money across the board. We just can't afford it. We want to provide compensation, which will focus on entrepreneurs who are difficult to do without the help, but at the same time prove a functioning business model, which means that at least partly they have managed to adapt to market conditions and return to the normal economic process. Thank you for your attention, that's all on my part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u175	Thank you, Minister, for your performance. Now with the factual remark of Minister Jana Černochová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, this is really even worse than we thought. Mrs. Vice Prime Minister, Dr. Law Alena Schillerová, said there was no vote on point C in the government. Let me quote from Article 6 the principles of decision-making and the management of government meetings, that is Article 15. The Government shall decide on the draft conclusions on all the materials included in Part C of the Government Meeting Programme by one vote. Government resolutions on these individual materials are then adopted by the same proportion of votes. Maybe next time, Mrs. Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u177	Another point of fact, Mr Robert králíček's turn. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u178	Minister Síkela, through Madam President. I must say, from your morning disillusionment, you have learned to insult and dehonest your colleagues quite quickly in one day, and your arrogance fits perfectly with this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u179	Another factual point was made by Mr Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u180	Thank you. To the performance of Minister Síkela. You said a lot there, but what we needed to hear is that conclusion, that is, if resources are provided according to a program that has been discussed with associations, with associations, with chambers that go only to small and medium-sized companies, because they are those that are on Advent markets, those who had closed small establishments, especially restaurants, fitness centers and the like, no corporations, nothing big. It's been discussed with them for a few weeks, it's been negotiated in the finals, so it's going to be exactly the way it was in the programs in the spring that didn't end up in any corporations, in any industry. These ended up with those who were affected, unless we consider that fitness centers are big corporations, restaurants are big companies or those who sell on Advent markets. Everything is discussed with unions and associations. But I understand when you say, "We're not giving them anything." That, too, is the way we can stand up to it. I asked for one single thing to be heard. Please say that it will either implement these programs in the finals exactly as we discussed here in the House, as we were pushed when tens and tens of thousands of requests came in during the order of the day. We had to take out hundreds of thousands of companies, and those companies got CZK 340 billion, and if we look at any analysis, you'll find that the vast ones were small and medium-sized companies. [[Most]] Simply put, purely because business operators, restaurants, fitness centers and similar activities such as swimming pools, wellness and so on, simply and simply are not corporations. I don't need any analysis on that, just look out the window. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u181	And another point of fact, Minister Síkela. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready, followed by Mrs Alena Schillerová. Please, Minister, you have two minutes to make your point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u182	Mr. Former Minister Havlíček, when I came to the Ministry, I found out that you had written a call visa for 11 more. 12. 2021, that means a week before you left, you sent out to the unions material for which you didn't have a budget cover or your original one. That means you wrote blank checks that weren't covered. I said we're looking for a way. We are preparing a programme that will concern those that you mentioned here, but what you have prepared has once again been an area measure, it has been for all who have had a cost drop of more than 30%. And that's what we're not gonna do. Now we're picking out segments that were actually hit by the lockdown, the emergency situation that you put in place, and we're going to try to help them under the conditions that I mentioned in my previous performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u183	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Nacher has actually volunteered, and President Alena Schillerová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u184	Have a good night again. I have to respond to Minister Síkela. I was looking forward to his performance because when he said he was here for the first time, I knew him from the banking environment or heard a lot of things about him, so I was looking forward to it. And I'm sorry, after the first minute, you started smugly attacking us again. Just by applauding the Prime Minister, it's a nice round of applause or diplomatic applause or, as you said, elegant. When we clap, it's a Frenetic applause, you degenerate it. Everyone's just clapping - I'm not here to judge who's clapping for who either, it's completely pointless. Then lean back like that, even the body language, it's really undignified. Today, here is the request of the Czech Government to express confidence. Instead of answering questions - I'll remind you: I asked about Green Deal and what the opportunity is, then I asked about consumer protection and out-of-court bodies that fall under your Ministry, such as the Czech Republic and the ERO - you didn't answer that, but you were just here to insult us again if we applauded little, much, often. You're training us here when financial instruments were created. Well, then we can try like this, and we'll be here for a really long time. [[23.40 hours]] When you were here on your first day, I thought you'd keep the decency inside of you at least that first day. So I'll repeat the questions again politely: Green Deal, and for (?) and what an opportunity it is, as it is, and what the future of out-of-court bodies is, because there is not a word in the programming declaration. You didn't answer that, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u185	Thank you, Ambassador, for keeping up the time and next is President Alena Schillerová with a point of fact. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u186	Madam Secretary, I haven't done it yet, so as soon as I look it up, we'll make an educational window. I'm gonna find my own, it's got to be read in context. And now for Minister Síkel. Well, Minister, you've given us a historic tour here, made a few notes, and you've drawn it up, excellent, to entertain a brilliant, historic tour, then you've taught us, then you've been waving a program statement from the government and some comments from the union and from the chambers. [[He's waving paper.]] I have information that you sent a coalition contract to comment, from which you quickly built the government's programming statement on that chassis. So it wasn't really like that. I don't know what you're waving or not waving here, and then you said, you just blamed my colleague here. Well, I think there's a lot of work behind him. And then you said you were analyzing it so only the needy would get it. The point is, before you analyze it, the needy ones still exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u187	Thank you, too. The next point is the Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u188	Thank you. I'm just brief on the debate we're actually supporting for the huge taxpayers' money, because the entire Antivirus program is tens of billions of crowns. I have to say that although I had to report who was supported during the duration of Antivira, I must say that when I looked at it through the optics of citizens, businessmen, Czech companies, those who fought to include the secretary in the support, we argued for two months completely for nothing, then it happened. And then when you see, for example, that several companies operating casinos in the Czech Republic get more than half a billion crowns out of the taxpayers' budget, you'll lose your chin. I think these are the moments when it is clearly to stop here and say where common sense is, who is really affected, who doesn't get out of this, who employs us people in the Czech Republic, and tell who we're going to give the money to in the context of this assistance. This is what we and the Minister of Industry and Trade draw attention to, so that when we give it, we put it on a huge ax that it will have to pay to guide those who would not have managed without help. And we have also proposed here, and you have refused to allow the government to have authority, to give a list of companies that, for example, reside in tax havens so that they would not be beneficiaries of these government programs. You turned it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u189	Thank you, Minister. Your speech raised a point of fact by President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u190	Well, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I don't have time right now, unfortunately, but I would like to find and find out how polite you are here - so I won't say bullied because I'm polite - when we released the second phase of the compensation bonus, as you did when I said, we want to do it on purpose, we don't want to do it like in the spring, when almost everyone got it, but we need to focus on it, and you said here: "He still says he needs it, and he needs it, and he doesn't want to do it, and he doesn't belong to you, how did you do it? You really turned around, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. You really turned around! [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Isn't that because you have an executive responsibility? I'd say so!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Zbyněk Stanjura is now in the debate with priority rights. Please, Minister. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-12-ps2021-006-02-001-068.u192	Good evening, Prime Minister, honourable Members, dear colleagues and colleagues from the Government. Now I will speak to our constituents who voted for our coalition of the Commonwealth, Pirates and starosta. What you decided on October 8 and 9 of last year is true: Babishism is over. Here in the programme statement, we respond to the needs of the middle class and especially of our voters. Allow me to make some specific comments before answering the questions that have been raised here. Mr. Andrej Babiš says very often that the House is a blabbermouth. I want to thank you for today's debate - maybe we're halfway through, I don't know, it's hard to estimate because I think that's the way it's supposed to be. And yourself, 40 members of the YES movement, answer the question of who was right, whether we who wanted to debate, or your chairman, who always said, "Don't talk, quiet, blabbermouth, hurry away, I have to work! I think you yourselves have given us proof that we were right, and I'm glad. I expected a debate, sometimes I could see it, but rather it was evening or morning, afternoon and evening friends reading written texts. Why not, many of these readings went quite well and I want to appreciate those who spoke on the downside, not just from the notes, because this is the debate. I don't have anything written, but I'll answer your questions, and I'll give you something for real. For example, it is true that we have adopted 74 new officials, and it is true that this will increase the cost of the state by CZK 42 million per year. [[unintelligible]] That's right. Mrs Alena Schillerová made CZK 420 billion in debt last year. If you simply share it, it's 1.15 billion a day, and if you divide it further, it's 48 million crowns of debt per hour, every hour of last year, and now it's a wonder that we've increased the cost of a state that accounts for about 51 minutes of what she was able to produce all year. I get it... I get it, every good crown, and we take it seriously, and I can promise you that wage costs aren't gonna grow by the 40 million crowns when we make the bill for the whole year. [[Laughter and applause from the right side of the hall.]] You're right, we have political deputy. We may have 20, maybe 25 or 30. I'm sure you've got over a hundred at the moment, that's just the way it is. You guys were doing ridiculous competitions where your party was winning so-called Vice-Secretary, so we're surrounded by your deputy. Okay, we'll deal with it somehow, but I'd like to appreciate your trust. We're in office for 26 days, I reckon? 26 more, it's going to be 27 in a minute, and imagine, we haven't solved everything they haven't solved in eight years. A great disappointment for the YES movement that in 26 days we have not solved what they have been dealing with for eight years. Well, we're ambitious, but we've never been this ambitious. I have heard many times from Members and Members of the YES movement that they will not give confidence to the government. Well, that's good. If it were the other way around, we did something wrong, and our voters would be really disappointed. I think it's clear and good to draw clearly the border between the coalition and the opposition. [[23.50 hours]] You ruled with the Bolsheviks and pretended you weren't and you were a minority government. It was foggy. When you were running into your shoes, they came to you, especially on personnel issues, to help an armory from the Tomio Okamura movement. Now it's pretty obvious. Here it sits - and it came out so nicely - from this aisle to the right sits government MPs, and from this alley to the left, it is also politically correct, it sits opposition MPs, so the dividing line is clear. [[shows the aisle in front of the speaker's counter]] It is clear who has responsibility and who will play the role of opposition. This, of course, does not mean that we will not discuss the opposition, and I admit that it can happen that they come up with something sensible, I would not like to rule it out in advance. I'm optimistic, unlike my club president, as he suggests. [[meant Mark Benda]] But you have to be optimistic. Sometimes appearances deceive. When Mrs Alena Schiller spoke in her opening speech, I looked twice, because I don't normally see her, and Alena Schiller actually spoke, or I saw Alena Schillerová, or I saw Alena Schillerová, I'm sorry, Mrs Alena Schillerová, so I wouldn't be so familial, but I heard the former Minister Jana Maláčová. The Ministry of Finance in this concept is an ATM where you can come in and it doesn't matter what you have in your account, you stick your card and the money out. Now let's talk about the budget make-up concerns. I really understand all finance ministers who have said that they do not want a budget provisional and that they want to approve the budget. I think it's perfectly understandable, politically understandable. However, thanks to Mrs Alena Schillerová's economics, we were unable to approve the budget, and that is precisely why, as she was managing, we are in the budgetary provisional, and that is why we need to redo the budget in such a short period of time. I'm not going to burden you with everything in that budget with the huge debt proposed for this year, which wasn't, even the mandatorial expenses. For my colleague, Mr Nacher, who was one of those who promoted and enforced forgiveness or cancellation, actually stopping futile executions, we have enacted a reward for the executors. Remember? Is it a mandatorial expense when we've legalized it? It's a mandatorial expense. How much did the last government estimate to stop those futile executions and thus pay off the legal bailiffs? [[The amount of ……]] The government estimated that zero executions would be stopped, zero futile executions, because it put exactly zero crowns in the budget for the mandatorial expenditure, for what is legal. Ask the economic experts of the Justice Department, maybe you'll stop shaking your head, but I know you're shaking your head about how this could have happened. Well, I don't know how it happened either, but it happened. Green Deal, what are you gonna do about it? So I'm just reminding you who approved Green Deal for the Czech Republic. Can you remember? Today he's an MP, the other day he was Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš. And now his MPs come and say, "What are you going to do about it? What do you mean? Is this an opportunity or a threat? It's so wrong. Ask your chairman first, and then you can come and tell us. Andrej Babiš couldn't explain it to us. Try explaining it to us. And we're gonna try, but it's gonna be hard. Because he missed the opportunity that our neighbors from the north, for example, had taken advantage of, from Poland, who negotiated reasonable exceptions that were consistent with Poland's position and needs. We didn't negotiate anything. We had strong words here in the Czech Republic. But when it came down to it, Andrej Babiš didn't negotiate anything and agreed. A moment ago we witnessed a debate, I would call it, I hope my colleague, Secretary of Defense, will not be offended, Mimoň here, Mimoň there, but Mimoň is profitable. And former Minister Metnar, but I must appreciate him, for today he has been in the House longer and has spoken more than during the entire term of office when he was the Minister of Defence, the role in opposition is evidently testifying to this. [[Laugh from the right side of the hall.]] You're telling a colleague who's here for the first time that he's Mr. viditelný. Well, if you were so strict with your former Secretary of Defense, I don't know what you could use to see how often you came here. As one of my colleagues said, he was here once in March and one Wednesday. [[Re-laughing from the right side of the hall.]] And he was up for, Mimoň there. Minus 185 million, Mimoň there. He's defending himself, it wasn't in Minister Toman's office, it was in my office. I don't think it really matters for the Mimoň who moved the office plus 185 million. Have you noticed? He didn't say anything about it, but he knows it was in his office. I don't care. Poor Mimoň. Madam Secretary will make Mimoň here and there, and logically he has the assumption of a better economic result. And here we saw what happened to the government under the leadership of Andrej Babiš. It's not a government, it didn't work as a government by constitution. When all the former members of the government were appointed by the President, I think you remember, the first sentence, the key one, is: I appoint you as a member of the Government of the Czech Republic. And the less crucial one is, and I'm placing you in charge of the XY Resort. Some had two, not like poor Mr. Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka, who had it for eight days. [[Minister Jurečka corrects him from the government bench: 18.]] Eighteen, I'm sorry. That's longer than some of the others who didn't last that long, but you were just an understudy. But this, too, needs to be remembered. I have heard from Mrs Alena Schillerová here: I have nothing, I just the minister, it is the other minister. Andrej Babiš has turned the ministers into Vice-President General of the Czech Republic, but this is not what the government is supposed to do and must not do. That's why we canceled... I see President Schillerová - I know that PR is great - those ministers with their hats go there, then they give an interview before the meeting, then at Letensky's office. How'd it go, Madam Secretary? Well, great! Well, not great, actually, I wanted a billion or two, and the secretary gave me half or one or two. So I want to remind you that no finance minister -- none -- doesn't give anything to anyone. It's taxpayers' money. We're just determining where we're going to invest taxpayers' money. Very often even renowned economists say, the last time I was in the debate with exporters, when the governor of the Czech National Bank appeared and said: The government has only and only taxpayers' money. Well, that's true, but it's only half the truth because he borrows to do it. Because if the government were merely managing taxpayers' money, we have balanced or surplus budgets. 826 million was an increase in debt in two years. Yeah, well, some of us work out that we can't count two deficits, that 367 and 420 aren't 826. Thank you very much. We also know that without a calculator. The state borrowed a little more than it needed. There's nothing wrong with that, it's been happening all the time. So it happens that some year is borrowed more or some year less. But 826 billion in two years. What happened to it? 350 billion, and I'm very generous, went to covido aid in two years. I remember our debate in April 2020 with then Minister Alena Schillerová, who told us that by the end of 2020, we are investing 1.2 trillion crowns in the fight against the covido. As time went on, the Minister then said, it was not in 2020, it will also be in 2021. And our dispute was determined by the facts. Treasury figures: 350 billion instead of 1.2 trillion. Those are the promises, that's the PR policy. The title and nothing behind it.
