ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on certain measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops /German press 170/ - shortened negotiations Before discussing the Government's bill on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 170, shortened negotiations, we would in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening up a debate on this. I don't see any logged in. Therefore, if no one is reporting, I am going to close the debate and proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on certain measures relating to armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 170, in a short hearing.' I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution, and I am asking who is in favour, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 4, 137 Members and Members were enrolled, 135 for them, none against them. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am now opening up a government bill on some measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 170. The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Members of the Government, colleagues, fellow Members, allow me to briefly comment on the proposal. The aim of all the proposals that we will present today is logically to cope with the consequences of the mass influx of refugees from Ukraine, which began in the Czech Republic 24. 2. when the troops of the Russian Federation launched an invasion into the territory of Ukraine. A temporary protection law has been adopted for the mass influx of refugees in the Czech Republic, but the procedures set out therein have certainly not been designed for such a massive influx of war refugees, which is currently taking place. The temporary protection law that we have activated requires the concentration of refugees in humanitarian centres operated by the State or the conduct of individual interviews with each applicant and so on. In the current situation, we all understand that these procedures seem completely unapplicable. That is why we have also adapted a completely transparent, clear entry regime for the arrivals from Ukraine through the National Assistance Centre for Ukraine, which has its regional workplaces called KACPU, the regional assistance centres for Ukraine. We therefore propose a special law to the temporary protection law, the aim of which is to simplify the process of obtaining residence rights in the Czech Republic, as additional rights are attached to the granting of residence rights, which will allow the adaptation of persons coming from Ukraine to life in the Czech Republic. In practice, residence permits should be granted to refugees in turn, in the form of a visa with a period of validity of one year. I want to stress again, it is not a new type of residence visa for anyone. This is a special instrument valid for one year. The instrument is called temporary protection, and the law will be valid only in such a way that we can meet the time limit of the year. It's a protective regime for those who come from Ukraine to us. If we look at the current population, which is already approaching 200,000 in the Czech Republic, 80 percent of the adult population are women, and the total population of those who come here in some 55 to 60 percent are children. That's the song of the incoming ones. They are the wives and children of soldiers who protect their country. And I'm sure they're our protection with a defined temporary protection instrument, that's what it's called, the temporaryity is clearly expressed here, and there's a presumption of a return to their homeland, so it's necessary to give them that kind of protection. The proposal is designed in such a way that temporary protection will be granted to nationals of Ukraine and will also be granted to nationals who have been granted permanent residence in Ukraine and cannot return to the country of origin. I know there's gonna be a big debate here about who those people from those third countries are. So far, in the 110,000 registered, we have had a hundred, one hundred people that we call third-country citizens, not Ukrainian citizens. Who was that? They were mostly women who had citizenship of some post-Soviet republics, but their husband is Ukrajinec, a child has Ukrainian citizenship and is now fighting in the Ukrainian army. [[♪ he ♪]] As far as the people of third countries are concerned, as we sometimes imagine in our slightly distorted debate, I would like to point out here that the directive adopted at European level also allows individual countries of the European Union to return to the country of origin. This means that the Czech Republic has already activated the return policy, and if some citizens of these countries appear here, albeit with a permanent residence in Ukraine, not a temporary but permanent residence in Ukraine, the first step of the Czech Republic is the return policy to the country of origin. But I say again, we haven't seen such cases yet. So these were mostly women who did not have the citizenship of Ukraine and came here to us. I would like to stress that this regulation corresponds with the European Union's Implementing Decision, and I would also like to stress that the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Austria insisted in the framework of the debate at European level that the return policy be the first step, secondly that it should be citizens of third countries with permanent, not temporary residence in Ukraine. The foreigners concerned are proposed by law, by which I mean all the Ukrajinec who come to us are granted not only rights but also obligations. And one of those duties is important to the security of the Czech Republic. These foreigners must report from the principle of this law their place of residence in the territory of the Czech Republic, so that we have an idea of where these persons are located, move, concentrate and be able to respond to the demand of self-government in managing more people in their territory. The draft also regulates the extent of the health insurance of the persons concerned on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of Health. The effectiveness of this bill is proposed on the date of its publication. The proposal also provides, as I have already mentioned, for a limited duration, which is therefore set by the end of March 2023. As I said, the annual effectiveness of this law. Temporary protection designed in this way has one advantage for us. If it is awarded in the Czech Republic, it also applies in another country of the European Union. So if we are going to deal with a situation that is about to happen, at this point the number of refugees is starting to be bordering on how to handle it with non-humanitarian accommodation capacities, that is, with some comfort, not in the towns built from some cells or tents and the like, then, of course, if they decide to leave the Czech Republic, for example, to go to Germany, and these in the last few days are relatively large quantities, then the authorisation will apply to them even when they stay in another country of the European Union. [[9.20 hours]] The last few data on the law, and then, of course, I'm ready to answer in any discussion. At this point, it allows the Police of the Czech Republic, for example, to register and grant temporary protection, which is important for us. So that it is not only the officials of the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy. We've overloaded them completely. They're only dedicated to this agenda. And we need to realise that other foreigners are legally staying in the Czech Republic, for example, for work or for British citizens, the right to reside in the countries of the European Union is now ending in large numbers. We just have to deal with another agenda. That is why it is good that not only officials but also police officers can grant temporary protection to the institute. I think I mentioned the most important of the basic information. If there are specific questions, I and the Minister of Health may be prepared to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u3	I thank you, too, and I ask you to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I will therefore now ask the rapporteur of the Security Committee to whom the Government's bill has been ordered by the President to discuss it and adopt the resolution delivered to you as House Press 170/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Security, Mr Pavel Žáček, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Hello. I am pleased to inform you that at yesterday's extraordinary meeting of the Security Committee, we discussed this proposal as provided, and we adopted the following resolution on the Government Bill on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press number 170. "Committee on Security after the opening appearance of Deputy Minister of Interior for the Management of the Department of Legislation, State Administration and Territorial Self-government Mgr Petr Vokáč, Head of the Department of Asylum Legislation JUDr. Nataš Kovář Chmelíčková, Head of External Legislation Department Mgr Klára Štěpánková, after the report by the Chairman and rapporteur of the Committee PhDr Pavel Žáček, PHD, and after a general and detailed debate: I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 22.00 at the latest on 11 March 2022; IV. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government's draft law, House's press number 170; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee to the Assembly of Deputies; VI. further empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments.'; To top it off, we took maximum advantage of the break between yesterday's lunch meeting. The largest part of the discussion took Section 3 and Section 5 in which it is defined, to whom these extraordinary temporary measures can actually be applied, who the temporary protection will apply according to the EU Council Implementing Decision 2022/82 of 4 March 2022. We also discussed the issue of social or health related aspects. We also talked about the length of these extraordinary measures. However, no amendments have been made to our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. Please take the floor at the news desk. I will call my fellow Members from the lobby because we will now decide by voting whether we will hold a general debate. I'll read the apologies that have arrived so far before the co-workers from the lobby arrive. Madam Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová is excused from 12 o'clock until the end of the day for work reasons. Mrs Romana Fischerová, between 12 and 14 o'clock and the end of the day, apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Robert králíček apologizes for family reasons throughout the day. I'm registering the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your cards. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues again. When your number is settled, we will vote - I remind the newcomers - on whether we will lead the general debate to this press. As the number has settled, I will begin the vote. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 129 Members and Members were enrolled and all 129 were in favour. We will therefore have a general debate. I am opening this general debate. I have the following Members with priority rights so far: Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Lang and Mr Mašek subsequently. So please, with priority rights, Madam Vice-President first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Government, Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members, I would like to thank very much for the introductory words of the Minister of the Interior, who is presenting this House press today and, of course, responding to the situation and how people must flee from the war in Ukraine. I did not have the opportunity yesterday, Minister, to be on the Security Committee, and I know that there was a great discussion about what you were talking about, and that is that when you approved the resolution, you replaced the word 'State citizens of Ukraine' with the word 'aliens'. At the moment and in our club, and there will be other speakers talking about it, both Jirka Mašek and Hubert Lang, we perceive that the House press is, of course, referring not only to the Council decision of 4 March 2022, but also to the 2001 directive. We perceive and would like to ask you whether it would be in the name of the law and, at the same time, in all the adaptations where the foreigners are listed, that it should be clearly stated that it affects the citizens of Ukraine and those with permanent residence in Ukraine. So I'm sure we'll make an amendment to that. We would still like to talk to you about this, and we would like you to support such an amendment, because we simply believe that we have to take care of this in some way so that it really affects the citizens of Ukraine and those who have permanent residence in Ukraine. Otherwise, we certainly have a very positive view - and you are certainly responding to those centres that are currently in all regions - of extending the deadline from three to 30 days. Because if people from Ukraine come here, maybe they can go to the regional assistance center to arrange accommodation, then they can move the children to the accommodation facility and then they can go to the necessary facilities. It is certainly very good that not only asylum and migration policy workers will be able to handle this, because it is clear that they were not prepared for this within the Ministry of the Interior at all with their capacity and scope, but as you said, police officers will be able to be involved. [[9.30 hours]] There is also a health insurance solution, where the adjustment is that it will be paid from the health insurance system. We support all these things very much. The only thing we have a problem with, and we are going to put on it, and I am calling it, the amendment, is that we need to be sure of the word that has changed, which you have changed to the government by your resolution, and that is that the word 'State citizens of Ukraine' has been replaced by the word 'alien'. And we want to make it clear that a foreigner is equal to a citizen of Ukraine and a person with a permanent residence in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u7	I, too, thank you, and now the Minister has signed up with priority right to answer. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for your kind words, thank you for your generally expressed support for this bill. I'm sure I appreciate it, and I think we need to find that support here today. I am, of course, ready for discussion. I will see how this amendment of yours will be formulated, what it will look like. I will also consult with the legislation of the Ministry of the Interior, who prepared our proposal carefully and in accordance with the resolution that arose at that European level. I just want to point out that we're really talking about the same thing. We are talking about temporary protection being given, first, to the citizens of Ukraine who come to the territory of the Czech Republic, second, to the citizens of third countries with permanent residence in Ukraine, which includes the draft law with which I come in this formulation. If we feel that it is necessary to precise in form, I do not resist it, let's look at it together during the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, in the debate signed by Mr Lang, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u10	Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I have joined this general debate for this reason, because for almost 30 years I have worked in the service of the foreign police and in the area of migration, I dare say, I have quite a lot of experience. Just as my fellow mayors speak here at times that they run their communities and refer to some things, I dare say that I have something to say in this area and I have something to say about these things that have happened here. I would like to start by saying one thing for Minister Rakušan through Madam President. I wouldn't go about 90 percent differently than the current government is. The situation is completely unprecedented, a situation where someone simply attacks a sovereign state, things happen there, not in the 21st century, not in civilized society. And I would like to say that this is how you will understand our possible reservations here on the bill as well as on the YES movement as a whole. We have never said that we agree with the aggression of the Russian Federation in the territory of the independent state of Ukraine, we can never, of course, support this as a civilised country and our political movements. So let's start with that. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová said here that we are not entirely sure about the proposal. I'm a member of the Security Committee. Yesterday we had two meetings of the Security Committee, in the morning and with the minister's participation we had representatives of the security community who, in some regime, cannot talk about it here, informed us what the situation is, how we are prepared, what we can expect, what the predictions of this development are. And then we had the Security Committee again at lunch break, where we spoke through the rapporteur on the draft of the upcoming law, which I call lex Ukraine. As for the information I have looked into - and here I am only turning to the public press because I do not have any other information - so the Minister of the Rakušan, through Madam President, is 3. 3. participate in negotiations at the Council of Interior Ministers, I hope that this is in order, where there was an agreement that the European temporary protection system will be launched for the first time in history. I'm quoting here from the material I have at my disposal. The whole of the European Union is thus showing that it will together protect Ukrajinec fleeing the war. In this difficult situation, I consider this decision absolutely essential, and I quote the Minister from this press. The decision taken, which will enter into force in the next few days, shall activate temporary protection for a period of one year with the possibility of extension. Yes, temporary protection is provided for in this bill for a period of only one year, then by qualified majority it can decide for half a year, possibly for an extension of one year. I quote further: not much changes for the Czech Republic. A similar range of protection and assistance is being given to Ukrajinec fleeing the war today. Quick and effective help is essential. The beginning of this article is still said: Interior Ministers of EU countries have decided to launch a European temporary protection system, once again Ukrajinec fleeing the EU from Russian aggression will receive the same form of protection in all countries of the Union. There's no contradiction here. But that is actually why we want to propose a change, because there is talk of ukrajinec, and yesterday on the Security Committee we asked representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, Deputy Minister of the Interior and those other concerned persons who have already been appointed here, why the change occurred, why in the original motion for a resolution of the government before me, and I am not making anything up, is written the word "States of Ukraine," and in Lex Ukraine we have the word no longer Ukraine, but in Section 1 paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the conditions for granting temporary protection to foreigners. Strangers. In other paragraphs, which we would also like to change, and we will record the change, in Section 3 it is said: The Ministry of the Interior or the Police of the Czech Republic further grant temporary protection to foreigners who will document... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 § 2 is point (a) where persons with permanent residence in Ukraine are already mentioned. The fact that I quoted this meeting where the Minister was present and said that the European Union or the European Commission would actually try to launch this temporary protection institute for the first time, yes, it is an extraordinary situation that we do not encounter, it is probably the biggest run since the 1990s, when Yugoslavia was falling apart and we had a similar situation here, I remember it very well, actually it was a complete tragedy when Yugoslavia broke up. Throughout our territory, refugees also walked, and a number of problems were involved. We didn't have legislation, we weren't where we were today, we were much poorer countries, we just had no experience at all, it was just after the Velvet Revolution, so today we're in a completely different situation. But my point is whether Lex Ukraine, and I have some doubts about that, doesn't mean breaking the redislocation of foreigners, refugees, migrants, if it's not just something we can use afterwards. We can then make a novel, we can make a change, we can change some section, we can change some letter, and, like, what we fought back, some uncontrollable redistribution of migrants, and the like, so it doesn't retaliate. It's kind of my point of view of the directive. The directive is relatively old, it is Directive 2001/55, Council Directive of 20 July 2001 on minimum forms of temporary protection in the case of the collective income of displaced persons and measures to ensure a balance between Member States in making efforts in connection with the adoption of such persons and the consequences thereof. It's a complicated name. [[9.40 hours]] When I look at the Lex Ukraine, basically, apart from the basic first paragraphs, we will find a lot of things in this directive. But this directive, please, was created on the basis of the war just ended in Yugoslavia and the first migration pressures to Europe. Until now, the Member States have never been able to agree to actually apply this directive, and there is talk of foreigners everywhere. Next thing. So I would sort of end my excursion to lex Ukraine, and I would like to focus on even more general issues related to this migration. Why, I ask the Minister of the Interior through Madam President, why are we going for temporary protection when we have existing legislation that is valid, we have a foreign law, we have an asylum law and there is an institute called visa for the purpose of patience? I'll tell you why. Because we're not actually able to implement this institute. Basically, I understand it on the one hand because it is a huge number of people coming, which is why we have actually approached something that makes the European directive possible and what is called a temporary protection visa. But a visa for the purpose of patience - there are three general reasons why it is issued. General protection of a foreigner or the existence of an objective obstacle independent of his will or, where appropriate, the complaint against his previous decision. In a normal situation, this visa is issued by the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior. We have a number of officials who, of course, as the Minister rightly said, are not only responsible for these Ukrajinec from this situation, but for a number of other foreigners who are staying here. I understand everything. There's just not enough of these people. And it's also an example of the fact that we don't really have enough of these people. So we've seen some things here in full nudity that have been sort of forgotten recently, or haven't been put so much emphasis on them. I'd like to warm up a little soup here. We used to have foreign and border police services in the files of our security authorities, then regulated for foreign police services, there were 6,500 to 7,000 trained, trained professional police officers who were trained precisely, trained for this situation. The fact that the situation has not occurred in the long run, then there has been a reduction, today the service is essentially killed, the service operates on the external Schengen border and five international airports where we have trained, trained by police officers, we have them in the foreign police department within 14 regional administrations, but integrated into the structure of individual regional directorates, and logically there is no longer the narrow specialization that we would need very strongly at this time. On the Security Committee, we learned that a certain contingent of these officers was sent to the Ukrainian-Slovak border, logically, to help, but it was said what the cops were used for when I was there at the border inspection, I would be the tribal Slovak policeman, a foreign policeman on the external Schengen border, so I will definitely use the policeman, use him as a colleague, but they are mostly used as escorts in some of the first seizures on the territory of Slovakia and so on. Here I ask at the same time if he is an expensive specialist of the foreign police, really an expert to be on the Ukrainian-Slovak border, if we may need him more at the registration points of foreigners in the interior. Please, here we hear - the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, through Madam President, is an excellent rhetoricist. Few can speak as well, make arguments and so forth, but everything isn't quite as pink as it looks. I understand that the situation is difficult, that there is simply a huge influx of migrants, Ukrajinec, people running, saving their lives - again, I return to the fact that we fully agree that we need to help these people and so on, but that we do not spill the baby with the tub. It's not entirely true that everything works, that all the registration points run regularly for us, that everything is okay everywhere. Of course, it's done on a run or something. There's a whole bunch of questions. We identify people coming from Ukraine in some way, they may have a birth certificate, they may have some biometric document, it's an ideal condition, but not everyone has it in Ukraine, it's a corrupt country, where the corruption runs on these offices, not everyone gets to the passport, notabene now in the fight area, they have some other documents. Among other things, in the area of foreign police, we had one of the biggest problems in the normal situation with Ukrainians, those categories of persons who were forgery, alteration, simply different forms of crime, whether the less serious one, such as illegal work, or even the serious one, associated with organized crime. So let's not be in that situation that just happened so that every Ukrajinec is completely fine. Criminally defective people will be coming here, various other troublesome things will be coming here. So if I go back to those registration points, every cop with his hands, legs, every civil servant at OAMP, every civil servant, and officials from the Ministry of the Interior, from various regional directorates today, they're at those registration points, they're registered in bulk. Persons who come in completely without documents, yes, at least AFIS is done, which are fingerprints and other things. We have people who have been in the files of undesirable persons, these people are basically unexecuted in the field of combat today, so if these people are coming, then we're going to have them here in the territory as well. So first, we had this guy here as an unwelcome person's log, he did something, he had to leave, and then suddenly, we have him back here, and he's going to draw all the details. So it's not quite simple, and I don't really want it to happen to the current government or to the minister at the beginning of his term of office, that he was affected by what happened to him, and if we were in the government today, we would probably be dealing with problems like yours. But I feel for our voters here, too, to point out that it really isn't completely black and white. I ask, then, why are we unable to implement the existing legislation that we have already adopted? Why do we accept such speedy, shorthanded proceedings, lex Ukraine, which will be extremely expensive? Other colleagues from the field of health and the like will perform. In fact, by doing so, we have, in some way, aligned the Ukrajinec with the rights of the citizens of Europe, the Schengen area. Yes, the minister says it's for a year. Do we know if it's for a year? Maybe it'll be two years. I'm not saying that we don't feel like demographics - in quotation marks - that women, children are coming, they're going to stay here, they're going to work here, they're going to integrate here, they're still better than people from the Middle East who have a lot more to do with us, 300,000 Ukrainians are already here, why not? But it's just gonna be expensive. It's gonna be expensive, and I don't know if lex Ukraine is really a Trojan horse of some redislocation preparation for the integration of other foreigners, other third-countryrs. And why am I so worried? I'm worried because in that original government order, the word "alien" was written, or the word "ukrajinec" and the person with a permanent residence in Ukraine, and suddenly it became a foreigner. And indeed, Minister, through Madam President, your deputy was unable to explain it to us yesterday. I understand he can't tell us because he'd probably end up in office soon. But it's just weird and we have to be a little cautious. It's all on my side. Thank you for your attention. I would like to reiterate that the YES 2011 movement does not have a problem with the law itself, in the finals we will support all the steps leading to helping the citizens of Ukraine, women, children, people fleeing the fight area. But we will say our piece and try to load the amendments, as has already been said here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u11	I will also stop the Minister, who has applied with priority rights, because the speech of the Member has also raised factual points. However, I did not want to interrupt you during your speech. Just - he does not listen to me now, Mr Lang, but just to be clear, you do not have to address ministers through the President just to make it easier for yourself in the future. Mr. Kašník, with the first point of fact, has another Mr. Haas. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u12	Madam President, ministers, colleagues, I am a little surprised that yesterday we discussed the very same subject very widely on the Security Committee. I thought that was explained. At the afternoon Security Committee, the Deputy Minister of Interior and Interior Legislation explained and answered questions. However, I would respond to the previous speaker, the whole situation, in a fundamental way. [[9.50 hours]] I absolutely refuse to associate and compare the migration crisis that was here in 2015, in any way, with the one that is here today. The structure of these refugees is completely different. And I appeal to the entire House to realize first and foremost that women, children, seniors are fleeing here with bombs, rockets, and Kalashnikovs shooting at them behind their backs. The fact that it can happen that in this huge amount that our authorities handle in an incredibly incredible way, some undesirable person, a criminally flawed person -- friends, you don't believe that this can be completely prevented. But when the woods fall, splinters fly. And the situation is so extremely special that it is necessary to respond to it in an exceptional way. And I declare from this place that I have such confidence in our top secret service, the security forces, that I think they will deal with these individuals very quickly and that they will do the seizures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, too. There's a whirlwind of factual remarks. Now, Mr. Haas. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for giving me the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed members of the government, I will try constructively to offer some legislative precise explanation to the previous speakers of the ANO movement, if it is really necessary to fear the concept of a foreigner. It scared me too, so I also communicated with the inside. And I'm gonna try to give that legislative explanation that the fear isn't appropriate. The concept of a foreigner, that is the first explanation, is used in the law because the law is special, I will say, to the whole Czech foreign legislation, to the asylum law, to the law on the residence of foreigners, and the concept of a foreigner is simply chosen there because of the unity of the Czech legal system. However, the personal scope of lex Ukraine is defined exactly in Section 3 of today's proposal, which we are discussing. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of CRR This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So not to any stranger, but to a stranger who's affected by the Council's decisions. And if you look into the Council's February decision, in its Article 2, Article 2 of the Council Decision applies to three types of persons: nationals of Ukraine - first category, second category - foreigners who have been granted protection of the type of permanent residence in Ukraine, the type of asylum and so on, and their nationals. On top of that, I can add, in substance, to the Minister that we may find it difficult to refuse protection in our country, for example, to husbands or wives of persons fleeing from a war conflict. So all you have to do is read it. To worry about it, and I had it, too, so I really share the concerns here, I explained them with the interior guys. So the concept of a stranger, you just read § 3 para. 1 and 2 lex Ukraine, but it is necessary to read Article 2 of the February Decision of the EU Council. I'm just offering if it's really necessary to be afraid of that term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u15	I also thank you for keeping time. Another factual one is Mr Zuna, followed by Mr Lang. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I wanted to respond to Mr Lang, but the Member, through you, Madam President, has already answered. Indeed, it is as it was said. The word alien, which is mentioned in Section 1, is part of some definition of the framework of the law in a part of the general framework. And who will then be covered by the temporary protection itself is defined in Section 3. I am very sorry that this one word causes and is part of a disinformation campaign that already appears on social networks when facts and facts are somewhere else. And it's just in Section 3. I would also like to respond to the fact that Mr Lang, by your means, Madam President, said here that the Police of the Czech Republic, or its members, act at the border as some kind of taxi driver, that they are doing an escort to the inner space of the countries where they operate, whether it is Slovakia, Romania, North Macedonia. That's not true. The information is very clear. They are doing a very important job there, which is associated with border control, with registration of those persons. And if there's any escorts going on there, it's their additional activity. So I want to stand up for members of the Police of the Czech Republic who are doing a great job there at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, too. With another point of fact, Mr Lang is signed up and Mrs Válková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to say, to be clear, I appreciate both previous speakers, my colleagues from the Security Committee, I think there is no contradiction between us. I just wanted to say by my speech that I am not questioning probably the interpretation that has been made here. If that's the case, it's only right. The point is that we did not have enough time, these things did not go away enough in public space, we did not have the opportunity to discuss this properly. And that's it. It's a law that's pretty crucial, it's gonna affect life here for a long time in all our cities and villages, because there's gonna be a huge number of people coming here. It could be up to 450,000 strangers living here with us, so in that spirit I asked. But if I'm reassured like this, it's going to be here, and it's going to be legislative, then I'm talking about it. But I wanted us to say it here because we can discuss it here in general, but it's probably across the political spectrum that we have no problem approving this law and, of course, I repeat, helping these people again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Another factual application is Mrs Válková. It will then be prepared with the factual Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. I'm glad it came from a previous speaker who tried to draw attention to the problem. Like my colleague Haas, through you, Madam President, I have checked and then, in such an analytical way, I have come to believe that it is luckily okay. Well, the Minister has one of the best legislation, certainly well deserved, so he can rely on us who need to look it up carefully. But what I really want to say here, and now, as an ex-agent, because I still haven't completely freed myself from it, I absolutely reject the speeches that we have to categorize between a fugitive and a fugitive. Do you know what some who run away with only dark skin color on Ukrainian-Polish or Ukrainian-Slovak borders encounter? And what has been said by Mr Kašník is a completely discriminatory statement that I reject. And I suppose if you already had an agent, in parentheses at last, he'd get out now and say, "This is no way to categorize anyone." A fugitive is a fugitive, and if he gets refugee status, then there should be one category or structure and so on. I know I only have a factual point, but I have to say this: please, not like this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u21	The Vice-President has now signed up with a factual remark and Mr Hayato Okamura will be prepared. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u22	I certainly thank the former Human Rights Commissioner for introducing my previous speakers. I would simply like to say thank you to the Minister of the Interior, who said he had no problem discussing this. And I don't think we all care: to be clear. Just so we're clear. But today, if you really look into this Section 1, it does not refer only to the Council's decision, but also to that directive. And if you look in Section 3, it says here: which is mandatory for the Council's decision. And in that Section 1, you have that the directive, along with the Council decision, is just a Council decision. This means that both of these legislations come in quotation marks into one, which is then referred to in Section 3. And I think that if we put forward an amendment stating what is in the Council's decision that it will be specified exactly who the stranger is, then I think we just need to find a consensus on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, too. Another registered with the facts is Mr Hayato Okamura, which is the last effective now, and the priority rights will be applied. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u24	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I just want to remind you that there are real human stories behind all these sections. I was approached by a representative of the Belarusian community at the Council of the Government for National Minorities, that there are such cases that one of the spouses is a Ukrainian citizen, the other one has Belarusian, Russian, other citizenship, it may be in a wider kinship, it may also be friends who, when the terrible war unexpectedly came, were in Ukraine, and as Professor Válková said, through Madam President, we really cannot distinguish between refugees and other refugees, refugees and other refugees. They are in an extremely difficult situation, in jeopardy of life. The Ukrainian women's husbands are now putting their lives on the line, they can be severely injured, they can die, they can leave half orphans behind. So let's see it so we can see the human stories. And, of course, people with permanent residence in Ukraine, but in fact, it is because the war came so suddenly that some of those husbands didn't expect it and they didn't even have the permanent residence from Ukraine, and we can't deport them in this stressful and extremely difficult situation, okay? So I'm just reminding you of this human dimension so we don't forget it. Thank you for your attention and thank the Minister for his progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u25	Minister, one more factual, signed by Mr Haas, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u26	Thank you very much. Please, I am only performing really to try to avoid this parliamentary man-made work here, but in a good way, so I assure you that even Section 1 of the Lex Ukraine refers only to and only to the Council's February decision. The word directive is there for one simple reason, because the entire Council decision, its formal title, is an implementing decision of the Council of the EU number and so on, providing that there has been a case of a mass influx of displaced persons from Ukraine within the meaning of Article 5 of the Directive and so on. So it is not a reference to the directive and to the Council's decision, it is really just a reference to the Council's decision. So I am now really constructive about the previous speakers of the ANO movement, and I appreciate that, through the President, that Professor Válková, Mrs Válková, is nodding at me, that I really think that she is legislatively perfectly okay and that we need not worry that any person other than what is defined in Article 2 of the EU Council decision of February this year would be hiding behind the concept of a foreigner in lex Ukraine. I really want to calm you down in that sense. Maybe that's the last time I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u28	I thank you for the floor, Madam President, and thank my colleagues for making these factual comments, because my speech after Mr Lang's speech would probably be unnecessarily emotional, and in the meantime I was able to take a little breath, exhale and try to be really just a matter of fact. Well, Mr Lang's innuendo on whether or not he is suspicious that the European Union has never activated the temporary protection institute before... It is not suspicious, because since the postwar displacements we have not had as much population movement in Europe as we do now, now. We are in a migration wave of quite unprecedented proportions, and the European Union therefore logically comes up with an instrument that has not yet activated for the European Union as a whole to be able to respond to such a crisis and its dimension. On the contrary, I am glad that the European Union, often blamed for its unacceptability, has been able to come up with an instrument that will apply throughout the European Union and sets out the issues clearly. I don't have to repeat any more legal matters. Paragraph 1 does not define any personal scope, the maximum could be explicitly referred to § 3. But why would we do that when Section 3 then speaks clearly and defines clearly, who is granted the temporary protection and how, and clearly speaks of ukrajinec, citizens of Ukraine and people with permanent residence in Ukraine? I mean, I think we're gonna have legal creativity here at the plenary. When I used to be mayor, when someone wanted to change the resolution at the board, I put the material away because nothing good ever comes out of it. After orientation, it is defined quite clearly, I think that even the YES movement and others may have among themselves the best lawyers we have in the House, and I think that you are able to come to the conclusion that this proposal is really in order and clearly defining. Then my colleague said that I was a rhetoricalist and all that and that everything wasn't pink. It's not, it's not all pink. There will be no, and there will be no queues, there will be inconveniences, there will be pushes, there will be problems, there will be criminals who abuse human misery, there will be visa deals, pimping, there may be a variety of negative phenomena. It's Putin's fault! We are in a situation that is unprecedented. There's a bunch of women and children, women and children and old people coming in here, and we're gonna talk about whether or not someone gets in here that we don't normally want to have here? Oh, yeah, what about it? What are we gonna do about it? I guess that's true, but there's a war in Ukraine, and we're gonna send this guy back to Ukraine? With what legal title? He's just gonna get the protection from us, and we're gonna have to keep an eye on him. We have an excellent police officer who will know that we have a person who was somehow defective until then. But what are we talking about now? We're talking about helping quickly. Help those people in need. Were you there to see what the moms looked like along the way? They don't have their dad with them, the kids are crying, the moms are exhausted. We're trying to find a principle that's fast. Fast, so we gave them that they don't have to go right away, it's from 3 to 30 days to have more comfort, to go to sleep, to go eat in those families where they have accommodation. Because they're running from the war, and they don't have the dad with them yet. Those are the people who are there. And we're going to be dealing with this -- there's going to be a glitch between them, and it's going to bring us increased crime, and we're not going to have to give up part of our comfort? I guess we will. And it's going to cost us money, that's definitely true, and a lot of money. And it's gonna take, like, a year and maybe not longer. And if it takes a year, we're gonna have to take care of them because we're the Europe you're talking about here. She has some values. And they're not economic migrants, they wouldn't normally come here, they're people fleeing the war. And that among those 200,000 statistically speaking, we all know Gaussův's curve, will there be any scumbags? That there will be more and less honest people among them and that, of course, there will be other problems? Well, does anyone here doubt that? Does anyone say it's pink, that it's all pretty and beautiful and functional? It's not. We've had 14 days, we've made the best system in Central Europe. We have a central staff that coordinates 24/7 14 regional centers. Of course, every day we argue with the generals across the political spectrum who tell us this doesn't work, here you put little money, here you should have done it a little differently. Yeah, maybe so, but the system works itself. No country in Central Europe, and you can look into these statistics, has at this point over 100,000 people with a valid residence status. And that's not my credit, that's the credit of great cops, firemen and great OAMP officials, because we managed to set up the system in this friendly way to provide help. I know we're collapsing in Prague today, we're starting to stay in gyms and stuff. I know that, but that's what we expected. We've been saying from the beginning that the capacity has been dimensioned into some 200 to 250,000 people, and more will be a problem, and we'll have to look for humanitarian accommodation. I'm going to the next government to propose how this humanitarian accommodation will look, where it could be placed, and so on. Of course, we are updating this at the European level, the Czech Republic is full. It is the Prime Minister at European level, I am discussing this with the Interior Ministers, with our Commissioner, we are discussing this with all of our colleagues and from neighbouring countries, on a daily phone with all the ministers of neighbouring countries, and we are dealing with the situation as it is. [[10.10 hours]] Trains are being set. Trains to Germany are strengthening. We're doing everything we can. But no one's saying it's pink. And no one's saying there's no dysfunction and there's no problems. They will. And we have to count on it. And once again, we have to count on it for one reason: it's war. There's a war in Ukraine. And we help those who run. I am also very pleased that the opposition supports the strengthening of the Ministry of the Interior's official apparatus. It hasn't been done in the last eight years. I think that Oampy as such really deserve a raise. Thank you for that. I'm sure that's what we're going to be doing at this point. All I'm saying is that we've delegated 150 other Home Office officials to the OAMP agenda, so we've been raising them here, too. And the fact that cops can hand it over is good. The process is accelerating. To your question, why a visa for the purpose of patience? Well, first of all, I admit that we want this trial to be quick, because that's what we need for these people right now. Secondly, I'm sure your colleagues will tell you that, yes, we are a member of the European Union. There are political forces here who think it's wrong. I am not one of those political forces, and I am glad that there is a European instrument that works. And if, at European level, the Council's decision has been implemented and the so-called temporary protection is launched, Member States are implementing it into their legal order and are launching it. That's what we do now. But I think that, in this case, there is no unnecessary implementation that we are talking about here, but it is the implementation of a sensible, strong decision by the European Union, so that the status that a person gets here can also be paid in a neighbouring country, because it is simply possible that these people will move. And another thing, a Trojan horse, any relocations? Tell me the paragraphs, where do you see it? So I see quite as a clear overview -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u29	Through me. This must be my way by now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u30	Yes, sorry, through, I apologize to you, Mr. Ambassador, I should know by now, Madam President. Ambassador, just tell me where you see it. That's no Trojan horse. It's clearly defined who it applies to. And you said, then the paradigm changes and the other one changes, and it's gonna be different. If the paragrafek, second, third, changes, you will know about it, Mr Member, through Madam President, because you are a Member. And you're gonna change the paradigm here in the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. I sum up the following - first of all, Mr Lang's point of fact, followed by Mr Schillerová's priority rights, and by Mr Mašek's duly signed-up Member. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. I'm a little sad about the Minister's performance. There was nothing here on my part but the fact that I took the liberty of being elected, who has his constituents, my constituents asking me, I took the liberty of asking a question here. Excuse me, Minister. If you're not used to it, get used to it. I am an opposition Member, and I have an opinion on certain matters, and I have the right to express my opinion here in the House. I didn't say no paradigm, so keep some small details. If I have any comments here, I have that statement. I'm not a machine. I am a member of the YES 2011 movement. We're in opposition today. But for God's sake, you don't want to take my right to come out here and give me your opinion? It's not all pink. I know that, too. And I never said that either. But maybe, for God's sake, I can do something about the bill that's coming here, it's this fast, we haven't had the chance to discuss it enough, it's from day to day, it's all in a legislative emergency, it's going to interfere with, like I said, our entire company, it's going to cost us a huge amount of money. Then, for God's sake, let me have the right, my personal right, to express myself and to express my opinion. You had to breathe several times, exhale several times. I'm taking it completely into consideration, the level, please. I have nothing against you personally. You're the Home Secretary. I'm an opposition MP. I'm a member of the Security Committee. I'm on some expert team of our shadow secretary of the interior. Well, for God's sake, I have the right to say my things to the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u33	Now, then, the rapporteur, Mr Žáček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. As chairman of the Security Committee, because we still do not have the minutes of the second half of yesterday's extraordinary meeting in the afternoon, I would confirm that we have discussed very closely the very term "alien," the one to whom this extraordinary standard will actually apply for a period of one year. And I must say that both the Deputy Minister and his two colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior's legislation gave us a very detailed explanation of the situation. So I took it as we were done, and as we voted, so I took it that everyone understood it, everyone perceives that all the questions were answered. Now, I see here in plenary today that we have not all understood, and therefore I am glad that we have received these explanations from colleagues who have not been with us on the committee. I'd like us to remember one thing in these techniques, and I'm following up on the minister. There's a war near us. She was summoned by an aggressor, Russian aggressor Vladimir Putin. And the war also causes huge losses, we see it on TV today and every day, which doesn't just affect those warring subjects, but civilians. The pressure on them is enormous, and the crowds logically go from east to west and reach the borders of the European Union, the Member States, especially Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania. We're in a situation where we're able to say "no, we're not going to accept you" to anyone who's going in that mass of people? I can't imagine. You, because you look different, because you don't have the status, stay there and die? Oh, my God, that's... Because today, Putin, the one who created this whole thing, the one who's the war criminal, the one who's the main mover, is confronting us with our own values. With the values on which Europe is based, this means humanism and the protection of human rights. And we will now answer with this vote whether we are willing to live up to these commitments that Europe and the European Union stand upon. And one last thing. Here to hear today in this situation, when Ukrajinec are fighting for us, for it not to spill over to us, and we can only help them secondarily, even if we are involved in this conflict, again with the Russian Federation, so to hear that Ukraine is not Europe, so please, I would be really ashamed. Ukraine is Europe. Ukraine is proving it. Ukraine is fighting for us. And I believe that it will also be part of the European Union once we have defeated Putin together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, too. Once again, it was factual. I'd like to ask if the Minister is applying with a factual or a priority. With priority. So, first of all, the de facto Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u36	Madam President, dear colleagues, I think we are mixing two things here. No one, that is not what I asked, but I firmly believe that none of the members of the YES are in a state where they do not want to provide assistance to Ukraine and the Ukrajinec who are coming to us. And at this point, it doesn't matter whether it's ukrajinec or a permanent person in Ukraine. Let's not say we don't want to provide. We all want to provide. But you all see, and I'm not a lawyer, and when I read it, it caused me to worry. The fact is, a colleague, I don't know you, so I don't know the name, he explained a lot of these concerns to me. But I think those laws should work not only for lawyers, but also for ordinary people. And unfortunately, I'm also getting e-mails: why are you voting on something that lets strangers from all over the world in here, why are you voting on something that can be used for some relocation? I trust the Minister, who, by the way, is a really good speaker, that it is not. But on the other hand, if it isn't, what's stopping it from replacing the word "aliens" with two words that exactly describe what you have in that law, so that whoever isn't a lawyer understands it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, too. So now the priority rights, it gets to them. President Schillerová is first registered, then Minister Blažek. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll try to calm the situation down. I am very understanding, and please do not look for the shadow of irony in my words, listen with great understanding to the speech of the Minister of the Interior and to the understanding of the former member of the government who was also going through a crisis, and let us not compare which was harder, both were difficult, which means, I understand the problems that the government is dealing with today, which the Ministry of the Interior is dealing with. I understand that they work on weekends, I understand that they write legislation on their knees, albeit with great legislation on their backs, it's still difficult to discuss, consult, discuss. I understand that it creates a system, whether digital or organisational, that has to work somehow, and I understand that it has a whole series of problems. And I understand all the more that we've been through this. And you will not hear any criticism from us in this regard, nor criticism that you are raising officials because you simply need them, and we have really very actively supported it. Just as actively, and I speak for all the members of the YES, because we had a club in the morning, we will also actively support this law of yours. Mr Lang is probably having this debate, I personally think it should have been played out more on the committee, that it should have been made clear there, it is more of a technical debate, a legal debate, it is not a political debate, I would like to stress that. It's not a political debate. We support this law, and I believe that there will simply be an explanation. But I don't like shortcuts like that, I'm sorry, and I'm already reading it on Twitter, I don't want to blame anyone here, let's respect those refugees today. I don't like lashing out. The debate was supposed to be held on the committee, which I insist, but if it happens here, it's nothing. But it's not a political debate. We support government policy in the refugee crisis, in access to Ukraine, to Russia's aggression. We have said it repeatedly, I insist and we will support this law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, too. The next performer is Minister Blažek, and she also reports with the priority right of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u40	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I guess I'll start by saying that there are situations where moral appeal isn't enough because they can often indulge in some kind of falseness up to kitsch and they don't affect the behavior of the population. So let me be realistic as it is. And I'm totally gonna skip some moral passwords. Every nation that wants to survive has certain moments in its history where it has to earn its right to exist. In the end, unfortunately, it has to be fought in some kind of war. What situation are we in? We're not willing to fight that way. Let's face it, that's the reality. When a nation that is not far from us fights, our duty is not only moral, but it is in this case to create an occipital background so that the soldiers who are fighting have at least taken care of their wives and children, whatever the number of them, because if we can't even handle this role, I am convinced that we can really find ourselves at our historic crossroads, that we can really lose the right to exist, and then we can, absolutely calmly and rightly, become the next successful goal of Vladimír Putin. That's how it is. If we're a nation that just because petrol or roll suddenly gets expensive, it starts to think that its historic mission and its claim to existence can go away, then I'm telling you hard that I'm not really sure if our society can control that view, that we have that right to exist. Is it so hard to understand that one of Vladimir Putin war goals is undoubtedly the upheaval of Europe? I do not know what his plan was, whether we will not accept them, that means that the Ukrajinec will be angry with us and they will fight with us, or if the plan was to overwhelm Europe with refugees, and even dark skin, I will not distinguish that now, and now they are just looking forward to the debates that we will be having so that Europe, including the Czech Republic, will smash itself internally. I am convinced, and I say again, I am not speaking to you as a moralist, the duty of all politicians who mean well with those nations that live or live with us, is simply to act like we have to accept those refugees, take care of them, and we have to handle it. Otherwise, let's think about whether this nation has a history crossroads that Vladimir Putin has started, who has completely changed the world, let's not talk in old terms, the world has changed completely by attacking Ukraine, and our history has changed several times in the future, and the history of Europe has changed. So I ask you too much, and I also turn to opposition politicians, coalitions, so that we don't Facebook too much and make this nation a nation that, because of its expensive roll, will die! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u41	[[Vice-President Mračková Vildumetz is on her way to the speaker's desk.]] I'm gonna stop the Vice-President, 'cause the de facto comes first. I'm sorry, but there's a Mr. Síla signed in, and then, if nothing happens, it's the Vice-President with the priority... Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just have one comment. There is no question of helping Ukrainian refugees, but it is also necessary to look a little real and think about our people. When I just calculated on the number or on the state insurance payments, and these people will be virtually all state insured people, each person or every state insured person costs us CZK 21,000 a year. If we multiply it by half a million, it's about 11 billion. And that doesn't include the cost of actual treatment. And so I'm asking myself, I don't know, the government or the government representative, the minister, how these finances will be dealt with here. Whether it's gonna go up like a government debt or... Moreover, when we realize that CZK 14 billion of payments for state insured persons in the new budget have been deducted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u43	Do not be prepared yet, Madam Vice-President, because another factual one - Mr Lochman. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Dear Ministers. I thought we were only dealing with a technical issue at the moment, that there was a lack of understanding of one term technique within the framework of the law. This has been explained, through Madam President, by Mr Haas and others. I have a feeling there's a clear assurance in this. What I have a problem with now is that how we speak - through Madam President - Mr Lang, fellow Member of the Síla, it is so that at the beginning we always say: Yes, we support Ukraine, yes, we want to accept all refugees. Then the magic word "but" comes along, and at that point, it's like the first one doesn't apply easily. And it's always about relativizing that thing. It's a great, really great background for the whole disinformation scene because it says yes, we have to help them, but what about our people? Of course, we are doing all this because we are Czech Members, trying to make stability here. The law is coming because the Ukrainian refugees are already here, another one is coming. Without this law, we can't secure any stability. I would like to ask everyone, either from this side or from this side, especially from this side, please do not relate to these concepts. [[shows left]] When we do this, we create even more uncertainty with our citizens. Do you feel like people aren't scared enough? They call me as mayor, ask me if we have nuclear shelters. They call, they ask what's going to happen. They're worried. They want passports for their children because they're considering it if it comes so they can emigrate. So please, let's not scare these people more. Let's be clear here, rational, real, and stick together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u45	I, too, thank you for keeping time. Mr Exner's point of view. So far the final de facto, and then there's a series of priority rights. Or do you want a factual one, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] All right, Congressman, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, first of all, that I very much appreciate the words of Mrs Válková, and I would like to ask, let us not support a disinformation campaign that already appears on networks that will be devastating, which will be long. In 2014, Aleppo bombed the same Russian fighters as today, and some of them made a campaign out of it, and we proudly said we wouldn't help any refugees. The campaign was the same. He's showing up today just like he did with a copycat. So please face the problem, proudly, let's say our Czech wir schaffen das. And I ask my colleagues at least from YES to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, too. Now I'm going to say the order of entries. With priority rights, they are registered: Vice-President Mračková, President Jakob, President Fiala, but now he has applied with fact, Mr Nacher, who takes precedence. Ambassador? [[Member Radim Fiala warns that he's logged in.]] You want... that's what I asked. I'm afraid I don't understand you through the... I'm sorry. It's better to log in through a button, it takes priority than hand login, as I'm sure you know. However, the de facto Mr Nacher and then the de facto Member... [[Member Radim Fiala protests.]] Oh, please, it's just a misunderstanding that you don't log in over a button. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to calm the situation down and ask colleagues here who are asking us to say something or not to say something, but they're not doing the same thing from the other side. I really appreciate the answer from Karel Haas, who, in the same spirit, professionally, specifically, on the basis of specific paragraphs, answered me when we had another point here two days ago. This is what I think it should look like. We say we support it, but that doesn't mean that we agree in a hundred percent. There's nothing wrong with a sticker coming in immediately. So please, let's respect each other like this. Karel Haas answered well and beautifully, and I appreciate it very much, and in this spirit it should continue, and not that there are more and more performances here, which then put something to my colleagues that they didn't tell you to have a dispute and a contradiction. I don't think that's necessary. So my demand applies both to that side, as you said, my colleague, and to this side, and to this side more at this point. [[shows the right]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm in charge of the meeting. And now, with factual writing, Mr Radim Fiala is signed in, respectively, via electronic equipment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. I have to respond to what was said here from the right side. You say, "Don't ask questions at all, because you support disinformers, we mean well, there's no need to know." The more questions he has, the worse it gets. We'll support the disinformation scene. What nonsense is this? So we're not supposed to ask any questions as opposed? And I'm asking! I ask if this will mean instability of the health system for Czech citizens. I'm asking where you'll find it, that's what Dr. Force asked us to keep the health system stable. If you raise taxes, who's gonna pay it? Or if you borrow it. That's what we have the right to ask! And that's what any Czech citizen would ask. So what are you guys trying to do? And through Madam President, the Member who said the Merkel wir schaffen das here: You have the wrong parliament, haven't you? You've got the wrong parliament! You're supposed to be sitting a few hundred miles west! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u51	That was actually a point of fact. And now with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u52	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also very sorry about where this debate has gone. I am also very sorry about the reaction of some colleagues from the coalition, because when I spoke here today at the outset, I thanked the Minister of the Interior very much for presenting this House press, and we just said that we support all things in this House to the press, and we all agree with everyone. I must add that we understand that the current laws... or that they do not reflect on the situation, which is why the Home Secretary quickly came up with this, because it also reflects what is going on in that territory so that all these things can be resolved, which is why he needs legislative support for this, which is why he's putting it here today. We, as the YES movement, thank him very much for this, we support this very much. All we ask ourselves and what we are worried about, and I have to say that in his introductory words, the Minister also said that, and I wrote it to myself that he knows that there will be a discussion about this here. And we just, and the Minister of the Interior has made it clear that if we find a way here, or if we deal with legislation, there is no problem that the word that has changed from a state citizen to a foreigner in Ukraine, so if we come up with an amendment that will be legislatively correct, then there is no problem for this amendment to be supported. I still want to say that, as reference is made to the resolution of that Council on 4 March, I am quoting it to all of you exactly to whom it applies. This applies to Ukrainian nationals residing in Ukraine before 24 February, to stateless persons and third-country nationals other than Ukraine who were granted international protection or adequate national protection in Ukraine before 24 February, and also to their family members. And we would like this to be clearly stated in the bill, because our colleagues in our club are concerned not about this Council decision, but about the directive that is also referred to there. And you practically have the decision of the Council and the directive put together as a decision of the whole Council that both the legal documents are there, even though, of course, Helenka Válková was here to comment on this on the basis of your speech by the Member. And my colleague Drahoslav Ryba said it today that we just want it to be clear for all the people in the Czech Republic. Nothing else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u53	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Hayato Okamura has now signed up with the facts, and then President Jakob, Radim Fiala and Minister Vít Rakušan are waiting with priority rights, and then the Member is duly registered. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, Minister, Madam President, I want to bring our debate back to this essential point. There are people here, it's a huge amount of people fleeing the horrors of war. We want to help them, that's definitely one important moment. Then, as Members of our country, we have a duty to ensure security for our citizens, to reassure them in this extraordinary situation. I also recall what my colleague, Minister Pavel Blažek, said. A reference to European humanism, to our values, which, in this extraordinary situation, are not meant to remain just some textbooks and on paper, but right now we have a historic opportunity to really live, to really apply them as high-level politicians in our country. So let us remember that the conclusion of this debate and the outcome of the vote really serve people, to be in the sign of helping the needy, humanism, and to show the necessary unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping time. And now with priority rights, President Jan Jakob. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad for the debate on how this is going. I think it belongs here, especially when we are discussing a situation of legislative emergency and it really needs to be decided quickly. I am also the mayor, and all three laws are absolutely necessary for the legal situation to shift here, so that what is happening so often and in fact has the support of legislation. So that's why it needs to be adopted quickly and the debate to take place. [[10.40 hours]] I also think, as President Schillerová said, that part should have been on the committees. It was, but I think we need to get this discussion right here and get a lot straightened out. I mean, as I listened to her, it was quite successful that the concerns here were explained, even though I am not quite sure if the explanation was understood or accepted by everyone. I think the fears are refuted, explained. Please, when they ask us, and it doesn't matter which part of the political spectrum, so, thanks to this discussion, we can and are able to answer with a fundamental answer as it really is. Let's do it this way, please. I got a little cold in the pastor's room, I got picked up by a gig that made me sign up for the first time. I'm sorry, but I'm incredibly upset when we talk, talk in public space, and especially when we talk on public networks, they reflect the wording of the type: that's good, but we also think about our people. I'm sorry, but I consider it absolutely dangerous. I mean, we're all thinking about our people here, all the measures that the government, we and all the municipalities and regions do, are doing for the benefit of our people. If we don't help the refugees from the war, the refugees from Ukraine, we're gonna be at risk on our own, and on the contrary, we're gonna be dealing with other problems here. Please, I warn against this rhetoric, which is very simply exploitable, notabene we can already see it on these networks. At the same time, I would like to thank you very much, thank you to the Minister, the Government, for the commitment. Maybe we were communicating on Sundays. Thank you so much for that. You can see how the system works. Of course, there's a crisis in the war, so everything has its pros and cons. But it's obvious that our system works well compared to the surrounding area. This, of course, has an impact on the impact it will have on our society as a whole. And that's for the benefit of our society itself. I would also like to thank each one, and there are thousands, tens of thousands, each individual volunteer who helps. I also see it from the level of the mayor, as these people try day and night and each contribute their part, in front of each of them I bow down. And I thank the Ukrajinec, Ukrajina, of course, because they are fighting for our freedom and for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. The speech raised a point of fact. This is Mrs Helena Válková reporting with her. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. I only have two minutes. I think it is precisely because everything is going so fast and we have so little time, and we know that we have little time, so that is why there is a debate here that could take place on committees under other circumstances. We haven't dealt with this issue at all on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. And even the other standards that we are going to discuss, some of them give such powers, such powers executively - and now I do not mean this at all critically, Minister, and other ministers and governments - we know well from the pandemic crisis that you must have them. On the other hand, we must always consider this through the optics of intervention in fundamental human rights, but by the optics of our constitutional order. It didn't have a constitutionally-legal committee, it didn't have a permanent board of institutions, for logical reasons, so part of the discussion is happening here. I don't see anything wrong with it. I also share the concern of Mr Jakob's previous speaker in the sense that some statements can be taken out of context on social networks, I have a rich sad experience alone, and put into other contexts. On the other hand, this is our risk, and we must allow our opposition Members to express our views, albeit at a certain risk of being misunderstood and simplified. I think that was very well described by the President of our parliamentary club when she said: we will support this legislation, we just want to clarify some things. And we answer the questions that they're asking me, especially the seniors, they're really looking at me in hundreds of e-mails, and we're saying that again in our own words. So that's our function, which I think we're compensating for a little bit of the time that we would otherwise have devoted to discussing those laws in the relevant working bodies of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. This brings us back to priority rights. President Radim Fiala is registered. No? You're pulling. Minister Vít Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. I'd probably be able to make a point this time, but I'm gonna try to walk in like this in the next two minutes. I appreciate the discussion. I think this discussion has to be here. And it is the first possibility that, in fact, in the Chamber of Deputies, we have the opportunity to somehow release the emotions, feelings and facts that we have gathered in ourselves. So that's quite all right, and I certainly didn't have any objection to any of my colleagues that he shouldn't be discussing. That didn't come from me. I'm ready for any long discussion. I think he's in place anyway. Now it's just a fact. I will consult again with my legislation, which was also praised by my colleague, Professor Válková. And I have clear information here that the reference to the directive cannot be deleted because the name of the Council of the European Union's decision is precisely quoted. It just can't be done. Legally, we can't do that, we'd make a mistake, we'd have to fix it. The law will go somewhere in the Senate. Please, let us actually agree on the fact that Section 3 which is the territorial one clearly defines that these are citizens of Ukraine or citizens with permanent residence in Ukraine. I think it's clearly defined. I understand. I've moved on with the debate myself. I admit, my first reaction was: let us discuss this during the morning - which we are now doing publicly in front of the Witnesses. But I would really believe in this case for the legislators who prepared this standard. Thank you, my colleague, through Madam President for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Jiří Mašek is now duly enrolled in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u62	Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues, I am glad that after almost two hours, I have come to the floor as the second party. Most of them have already been said here, so I've thrown my speech away and I'm going to try to make a few, if possible, consistent remarks. We all want to help, there's definitely a match, and there's no need to do shoulders here, who's more, right or left spectrum, because that's what we've said here, and I don't think it's necessary for these types of speeches, if anyone wants to help less, to somehow abuse it, someone less or more. Directive No 55 of 2001, the European directive 21 years old, has not yet found realization, and has not found, despite the large migration movements that existed here. But the directive actually provides temporary protection throughout the European Union and also talks about relocation of refugees or quotas. And you know, in the previous periods, it was us who didn't agree to quotas, by the way. [[10.50 hours]] The situation is changing dramatically now that the agreement is that we must help Ukrajinec and permanent residents in Ukraine. If I'm not mistaken, this was signed by a fellow Rakušan as Home Secretary at an interior minister's meeting. And it was supposed to be targeted aid to Ukrajinec. On this we all agree, we want to help Ukrajinec and those with permanent residence in Ukraine. Now it needs to be delegated to people. Our citizens, who we represent here, want to understand these laws. When I read to you the first page of the press we approve today - now we are talking about 170 - it is called the Government's bill on some measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops. [[printing]] As a citizen, I would expect a subtitle: on temporary protection and health insurance for refugees, Ukrajinec and permanent residents in Ukraine. It would be very clear. There are two other laws that are vaguely called in the form. There should be the context again. Employment again for this group of people or education for this group of people. We didn't want anything for YES but to get it into that title and mainly get it into § 1, subject adaptation where we wanted the word "alien" to replace "ukrajinec and person with permanent residence in Ukraine." This was dealt with by the Minister in Brussels, and that was the consensus. And that match was because we're dealing with Ukraine now. It wasn't a match before because other runners and their relocations were being dealt with. At present, all and all of Europe agree to resolve the Ukrajinec and the validity of temporary residence throughout Ukraine. There's nothing political about it, there's nothing ideological about it, there's nothing anyone wants to help, someone doesn't want to help. So our request is for either the Ministry of the Interior to make this adjustment, or for us to vote on our amendment in this sense to all three of the press under discussion today. So I think that this is quite simple and that we should agree on this because we have agreed here that we all want to help Ukrajinec and people who reside in Ukraine. As the Minister has rightly said here, so far we have experience that there are relatively few other refugees who do not meet this. But our legislation, and that's what we asked the committee, it's what they do. It doesn't mean that whoever doesn't get the temporary stay, this institute, we're gonna put him out right now, we're gonna run him out. The representatives of the Home Office told us that if they were such refugees, we could take care of them in a different regime, and it's not true that we'd be throwing somebody out in the middle of a conflict. So much for that, I guess. So our legal system can handle this, and I think what I've said here or my previous speakers has a ratio, and our citizens would understand it well, they would welcome it. Next thing you know, health care. Because it's all in the accelerated regime, so it didn't go through the Health Committee at all. Here I just want to say that there are now up to 450,000 or half a million refugees talking about the fact that Minister Válek said that we should be able to do this. I just want to say that it's about 11 billion per year, if that's what it means to pay the state insured people for this number. So we have to count on it, we have to look for resources. It's gonna hurt us, but we're gonna do it again, so there's no way I would criticize it. At the same time, however, let us just admit that this will significantly reduce the capacity of our medical facilities, probably prolong some waiting periods. But we are Čech, we said we would help. We just have to count on it, and we have to say it here, and I wouldn't make it any more political. So, once again, I would like to address the Minister to consider this and to make the adjustment the way of his legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. [[Minister Válek is reporting for the floor.]] Please just let the Minister know that we have the order of admissions. Now there is a factual point, then there is President Alena Schillerová and then with priority rights, the Minister. You'd prefer. [[Mrs Schiller prefers Minister War.]] So a factual point comes first. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. By means of you to Mr. Mašek colleague, a great request. If I may ask, please, colleagues of the YES movement, consider whether this amendment of yours, let's say legislatively technical, is really necessary. It won't be about one word, it won't be about Ukrainian nationals. It will not be about adding "nationals of Ukraine with permanent residence in Ukraine" there either. Because if you really read the law well, there is a cumulative condition - § 3 para. 2 has two letters, (a) and (b). She's nodding at me again, through you, Professor Válková. There is a person with a permanent residence permit in the territory of Ukraine who cannot - and now I am free to paraphrase, I will not read the whole B - who cannot return to his home state because of the threat of danger in his home state. Let me give you a very specific example. If a citizen of Belarus fled to Ukraine after the unrest in Belarus last year, he gained permanent residence in Ukraine, so he cannot return to Belarus because he is in danger there, and he is coming to us. So I'm just considering, really, the legislation isn't about one word. And once again, I appeal, I think the law is written very precisely and most accurately as it could have been legally written. There's really more of those categories. Citizens of Ukraine, their family members, residents with permanent residence but who cannot return to their home country because of the threat of danger. Do you think repeating this to the title of the law will help his clarity? It's really just a request. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Now with priority rights, the Minister. [[Mr Mašek is applying for the floor.]] Do you still want the facts, Mr. Ambassador? Copy that. So two more minutes for Mr. Jiří Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u66	It'll be quick. I'll follow up on my colleague Haas. I'd hate for this to get into some kind of legal collision. But I'd respect it if everything was listed in the same way you said it would apply to this group. But I consider it necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Now, then, Mr. Minister of Health, Válek. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u68	Thank you, Madam President. I'm so sorry, I'm not totally fit. There's no way in hell there's going to be a threat to health care, that's a total crap, not just me, but nobody's worried about that. I'm just gonna give myself the guts to sum up what I've done. We approached the Board of Providers, I addressed the Scientific Council, we agreed with the provision and with the Scientific Council. Furthermore, on the way to the Chairman of the Board of Providers, I will address individual providers in how to set up refugee care, both for children and adults, to spread out. So that we support the practitioners, the practical gynecologists. I see the only problem, and these are pediatricians where we agreed with the faculty hospital directors, and I will then address the large regional hospitals, faculty hospitals, directors, or directly controlled, which I invited. That's where we discussed it directly. I asked everyone to come, so we had a debate with them at the Ministry. I think that was Tuesday. I don't remember what day it was anymore, but it doesn't matter. There we talked about how to overcome the barrier, let's say, the lack of practical doctors, so that the deadlines for Czech children and their mothers did not extend, so that they could be sure that care for them would be provided in the same quality as before. We've arranged some special centers that will be in individual regions. The second reason is a certain language barrier that can cause problems. That means, it's no effort to go with double quality, but it's an effort to simplify the process so that we can bring in Ukrainian-speaking paramedics to help translate, help explain. [[11.00 hours]] Today, at the meeting, we approved that there will be a new module in the ISIN, which will work in various forms, where we will follow the data about Ukrajinec exactly. We picked up, like, a cluster that showed up as far as I'm concerned. We isolated him immediately. We found out what kind of submutation it is. You may have noticed that we have published special data on covido in the Czech Čech or on citizens who are Czech nationalities or who live in the Czech Republic for a long time, and new information about refugees has appeared there. That means we're monitoring this, too. Of course, I see weak points, I see narrow throats, he said that, through Mr President or Madam President, Mr Mašek, and that, of course, may be some elective performances. However, we went to such details that we discussed transplant programs, we discussed some adjustments in this sense, so that it absolutely had no impact on care. I, along with the clinical advice of the Minister of Health, identified the drugs that might be problematic, and arranged for them to be redistributed within Europe, in agreement with the large companies, so that we could get some of the drugs out of the country's reserves. I'll be specific. Now we're dealing with a problem - and here colleagues across the political spectrum, I feel like on the left, I don't know where exactly now, but maybe my colleague is a neurologist, so he'll know what I'm talking about - we're dealing with a spin-spin problem, we're dealing with a zolgenzma problem, which are drugs that are very expensive, which are targeted. That means we have an accurate overview of the patients, we're working with the European database. Yesterday we solved some twenty, twenty-two oncological paediatric patients with severe hematoncological disease. We're also dealing with party dates, like brain tumor surgery for some of those little kids. This means that we are now in the detail phase, in the questionnaire phase, in the three-stage monitoring phase, on the one hand, on the other hand, the centers that are right on the spot with the nonprofits, then the practical doctors, and then finally the regional centers, which will be specially cared for refugees. The whole target is a de facto triple. The first goal is to have a clear overview of the drug flows and what could possibly be limited, and in time we asked for a refill. I think this is guarded through the distributors' association and other stakeholders. Nothing's perfect, but here it's guarded so that I'm basically calm and it doesn't wake me up at night. The second problem is that care for Ukrainian refugees is available. Many of them need a psychologist, many of them are in a really difficult situation, some of those kids don't have parents. And here I would like care to be good for them, to be quick, but the same as for the Čech. And that's what caring for our citizens has to do with it. It is simply out of the question, and it must not happen that the quality of care for Czech citizens would deteriorate, that some medicines would not be available, that, say, something I could call a collapse of health - but the word is complete nonsense - which I could call a threat, not a functioning health service. Then there's no such thing as possible. There are minor problems, there are minor technical problems. We're preparing for different variations. And, of course, problems will appear, but I can assure the Chamber of Deputies, and at the same time all colleagues, Members, or Members, or Members, please, that I will strain all my forces and the entire Ministry of Health and I am sure that the entire health sector, because chambers, stakeholders, hospital directors, individual organizations, they all respond, patient associations, and offer help. And I really, really, really, really thank them for that. I thank them for it as a minister, thank them for it as a doctor and their colleague. So please, if you think of anything, if you have any suggestion, one of which political parties, I'm available for 24 hours. Keep me posted, contact me so we can work this out together. I see zero potential for political debate in this regard, but I see very strong potential for solidarity, professional debate and humanity. And since there are a lot of doctors in the Chamber of Deputies, I believe that you will help me deal with this situation, whether you are from sides to the left or from sides to the right, or you are sitting against me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u69	Thank you and the speech raised a factual remark by Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, allow me just a few sentences. The movement yes - I would calm down a little emotion here, I can see why when gentlemen act, they often yell guns. It's pointless. The YES movement clearly supports any assistance to the people of Ukraine, of course. We feel extremely sorry for those ordinary people who are not guilty and suffering, and never doubt our goodwill. We're helping as much as we can. That's one thing. On the other hand, and we talked about this a few days ago, and that was one of our reasons why we couldn't support the budget, because we understand that the Health Department - I'm not going to talk to another - is, of course, currently exposed and will be subjected to great pressure necessary to help, care for residents who, please, have a completely different state of health than we do. We don't know what kind of condition these people are coming in, these diseases are really linked. This means that we are merely asking because our citizens are asking us. And we're bound to ask! And who other than the government that makes these laws? There's no other way to do it. So please nicely, we have to ask how dental care will be provided, how psychologists care will be provided. The Minister has touched on a very sensitive subject, and this is mainly child psychology. We have a shortage of child psychologists, a long waiting period. That's reality. What we are going to do, and the YES movement is already doing it, of course, is appeal to insurance companies to negotiate those who meet all the conditions, such as child psychology, because it will be very necessary. So please nicely, our terms and our remarks are very constructive, they are towards people. There is no way that this means any limited assistance for the people of Ukraine or otherwise disabled persons who can, of course, come at any other time, but we ask because we have to ask questions. [[Time!]] If we hadn't asked, it would have been irresponsible for our constituents and patients. [[Your time!]] And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u71	With another de facto Minister of Health. Please take the words, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I'm glad we're on the level of finding ways, thank you very much for that. And I would like to thank you, in particular, for your help to Mrs Adámková. She found her way to scientific advice. I am glad that she accepted membership of the Scientific Council of the Ministry of Health, and I think that the discussion - and that she will confirm it - was very rational, it was good, and all that was sitting there was one thing: somehow helping children, helping women from Ukraine, in some way setting rules so that care for Czech patients is not completely compromised. And I think it's been very fruitful for several hours. And perhaps I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dr. Šrámková from the Faculty Hospital Motol and Professor Štěrba from the Faculty Hospital Bohunice, who together prepared a proposal to take care of oncological children so that there is a zero chance - a zero chance - that there will be any limited care for Czech oncological children, while we were able to take care of these children who need it and deserve it. Thank you both so much for this place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u73	Thank you and now - they are still reporting with fact. So, with Mr. Vladimír Zlínský in fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a doctor, so I would ask you about such a medical problem. I do not wish to bother the Minister due to his indisposition, but Professor Prymula said today that the incidence of tuberculosis is many times higher in Ukraine, the number is spoken of fifteen times more than in our Republic. So I'd like to ask the Minister how we're going to respond to this so there's no serious health problems in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u75	Thank you for asking. The Minister will again respond with a factual response. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u76	Thank you so much for asking. We responded. That means we've done three things. We have issued a methodological instruction in cooperation with the Society of Lung Medicine on how to conduct examinations of these people who are at risk or who have symptoms, we discussed with the State Office for Nuclear Safety so that it does not violate Euratom legislation and the Czech atomic law. We were based on a model that the Švýcar and some other countries use, which I think is strong enough. [[11.10 hours]] We've defined what's on the demand list. We went to such details that I called yesterday, if it is Friday or Wednesday, I'm not sure the working group for medical radiation, where I asked the individual professional companies who are in charge of this, led by the radiological company, to set up a precise procedure for the examination, that is, whether the picture in one screening or in two screenings, to put typical pictures on the website for doctors who will evaluate it, because we still do not have such experience, including children. That means, here I think the situation is completely under control. In addition, we started to provide a vaccine for those who did not have a completed vaccination calendar in Ukraine, so that we could enter and inoculate it, the vaccination society gave a clear opinion on this, which we are now discussing with both paediatric companies, that is what I said here during the interpellation last week, and I think this should also be part of today's instruction given to health care establishments. I don't know if it's going to be today or Monday, the exact order, but today I think we've finalized the last thing. The incidence of tuberculosis in Ukraine is really higher, but it's more like older men, but it's irrelevant to discuss it this way right now. The incidence is about ten times higher, but we have this completely under control, as well - and I will repeat it - as AIDS. There is really no danger in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. And now with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I've already briefed the representatives of the government coalition and the minister. Since this debate has been held here, I will now take the technical and legislative one, I think it is appropriate that we clarify this rather than, if necessary, the amendment, which is not even necessary, we will see. We just need to tell each other. Thank you for the debate. And that is why I am asking you to take a 15-minute break for the ANO club, and we will meet in the akt, please, all members of the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u79	Thank you, so I'm happy with the request for a break. We have a break until 11.26 hours, then we will meet again here in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u80	It is 11.26 p.m., once again we can continue following negotiations that have been suspended at the request of the ANO member club. First, in the meantime, I will introduce my fellow Members and colleagues to the apologies received. Today, 11. 3. Mr David Pražák apologizes for reasons of employment between 11.15 and 14.00. He also apologizes for family reasons today, Mr Karel Krejza. From 12 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Karel Sládeček apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Karel Rais apologizes for the whole day of the hearing due to a doctor's visit. And for reasons of employment from 9.45 to the end of the day, Minister Síkela apologizes. And the last apology received, Mr. Šimon Heller, today from the entire day of the hearing. And I see with priority the right of President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u81	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm so sorry, but we're really in the heat of a technical and legislative solution. We've got a clerk from the Home Office. I'm begging you for 15 more minutes. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u82	I'm registering a request, so I'm responding and interrupting at the request of the YES movement until 11.42.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, 11.42 hours and again, we are opening our negotiations after the break that the club of the ANO movement has taken. And I ask if there is anyone else with interest to speak in the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. But we still need the Minister, the plaintiff's representative, to come to the rapporteur's table, please, yes, he is coming, and the rapporteur. We'll wait half a minute. I ask: Minister, rapporteur, are you interested in the final words after the general debate? It's not now. There have been no voting proposals, and so we are now coming to the debate in detail, which I am opening with this, and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is reporting with priority right. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u84	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for extending the time, where we, as a club of the ANO movement, had the opportunity to speak directly with the people of the Ministry of the Interior, with legislation, and, on the basis of this consultation, we would like to read in a detailed debate two amendments that we would like to put to a separate vote on each. The first concerns the name of the House press, which currently has the title of the Government's bill on certain measures in connection with and armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, and we would like to add the amendment: concerning temporary protection and health insurance for Ukrajinec and permanent residents in Ukraine. That would be the first. And the other one, I think more importantly, Minister, is that as we are always here or, respectively, we would like to clarify the word foreigner, which is based on the Council decision of 4 March 2022, so the second amendment based on consultation with people from the Ministry of the Interior legislation would be in Section 1 in paragraph 1. 1a), where the "conditions for granting temporary protection to foreigners" are stated, they added "referred to in Section 3" because this would be clear and evident at that time. So that is the second amendment that we would put to a special vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u85	Madam Vice-President, I'll stop you right there. I would like to remind you that the amendments must always be justified in a detailed debate. I just want to remind you that by loading it, such a brief explanation that it is not in a written presentation would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u86	Madam Vice-President, the reasoning has already been made in the general debate, where we have spoken in very detail, you have certainly registered it, the debate and the justification here on our part was clear that it is necessary to clarify that the Government of the Czech Republic has changed the word "State citizen of Ukraine" with effect from 10 March and replaced it with the word "alien." So that is the reason, and that is why we are putting forward these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u87	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is interested in joining the debate in detail. This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. I will also ask the rapporteur whether he is interested in the final word after this detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u88	I would, however, because the amendment is only loaded now, so maybe we could get it in writing. That's my only point at the expense of the final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u89	Yes, there has been a request to make a proposal to your hands in writing. And I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in the final word? He doesn't. So I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. And it is up to us to make a decision, and I am now asking the rapporteur, too, to decide whether to print the amendments and distribute them on the table, or whether it is sufficient for us, as has been said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor. I was just referring to that comment. I think we should all like it in front of us, so we can read it, that it wasn't meant to be, just that it was meant for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. So, yes, it will need to be printed on the table. And now I'm interrupting this point and we're going to move on to the next point.
