ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-006-071.u1	71. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to express its consent to the ratification of Appendix No. 1 to Host Agreement on location, support, privileges and immunities between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Agency for the European Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), signed in Prague on 27 January 2012 /German press 194/ - first reading Mr Martin Kupka, who is already ready, will present the proposal, and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-006-071.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have a proposal to negotiate Supplement No. 1 to the Host Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Agency for the European Global Navigation Satellite System concerning the location of support, privileges and immunities signed in Prague on 27 January 2012. This is a step that can be very favourable to the Czech Republic, it can strengthen our prestige in the European Union, but also in fact worldwide, because the expansion of this agency's services means a significant strengthening of data connectivity, security and so on. In May last year, the regulation of the EU Space Program was transformed into a new EU Satellite Navigation System Agency for the new EUSPA Space Programme Agency, thereby significantly extending the scope of the original Agency from purely satellite navigation to all components of the European Union Space Program, including the Copernicus Land Observation System, the GOVSATCOM Government Satellite Communication System and others. The importance of the Agency and the scope of its activities have also increased substantially. I remind you that it is the first and the only agency of the European Union with its registered office in the Czech Republic so far. It is clear that the presence of the agency in the Czech Republic has a direct economic, financial effect in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns per year. However, as I mentioned, it also has a significant effect on the prestige of the Czech Republic, but also for the development of scientific projects, because, for example, in the monitoring of the Earth in the form of Copernicus system, there are many Czech universities involved and this represents a significant shift in terms of monitoring changes on the planet Earth. At the same time, I would like to stress that the presence of the Agency means, of course, a greater concentration of experts who come to Prague and who also work here subsequently. This means an opportunity for meeting other people from different ends of Europe, at the same time opening doors for Czech companies and naturally attracting branches of foreign companies to the Czech Republic, expanding congress tourism and so on. In connection with the creation of the EUSPA, it is possible to expect further multiplication of the benefits for the Czech Republic compared to the benefits realised with the location of the seat of the original agency. However, an increase in the Agency's responsibilities and tasks will require higher staff and technical resources, for which the current form provided by the GSA on the basis of the original host agreement will no longer be sufficient. The current situation is that the mansion that many of you know in Holešovice is cracking in the seams and it is essential to address the very future space. It can be expected that there will be a significant increase in the number of employees of the Agency itself in the coming years. These were around 200 years old, but up to 570 people could increase by 2026. At the same time, negotiations are currently taking place at the level of the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament, on another EU space system for securing telecommunications connections. Undoubtedly, it will be part of our Presidency agenda in the following year as well as the strengthening of Secure Connectivity, i.e. safe data exchange, in which EUSPA can play an important role and will very likely play a role. It is supposed to be a system that will read hundreds of satellites, and it should ensure a virtually separate functional way to provide Internet data connection for European Union countries. It is therefore very simple to assume that the number of EUSPA workers will continue to grow. Representatives of the Czech Republic and the Agency came to the conclusion that it is necessary to strengthen the space for securing a new building for the purposes of the EUSPA in the wider centre of Prague. There is already intensive cooperation with the capital over a specific solution and data security will be in charge of the State Treasury Service Centre, the Centre for Shared Services in Zelenč. [[11.30 hours]] Both parties - both the EUSPA agency itself and the Czech Republic - expressed their natural interest in moving further along the way of joint memoranda, but it is essential to agree to ratify Appendix 1, to negotiate a change to the Host Agreement so that it is possible to count on the extension of the seat and the space for the EUSPA. It is therefore a transfer within the capital city of Prague, the mentioned Centre for Shared Services in Zelenč. At the same time, of course, it is also about other possibilities for the development of activities of the Agency in the Czech Republic. Since the host agreement is an international treaty of the presidential category, the government is now presenting it to the Czech Chamber of Deputies for ratification. I dare ask you to support this ratification. Even from the first negotiations within the European Union, I am convinced that this is a step that can significantly strengthen the position of the Czech Republic in the scientific community and at the same time change the view of the Czech Republic as a cheap montovna as the Czech Republic has unfortunately presented itself more in previous years. This is a project that means building a centre of excellence in the Czech Republic and strengthening scientific links in the development of activities at scientific level as well as strengthening specific business activities in advanced technologies. Thank you very much for your attention and possible support for the host agreement, or its amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-006-071.u3	Thank you, Minister, for presenting the proposal. The rapporteur should now speak, but the designated rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Jiří Horák, is excused. It is therefore agreed that Mr Ondřej Benešík would take up the rapporteur. However, this must be voted on whether we agree with the proposal to amend the rapporteur. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anyone. We will therefore vote on the amendment of the rapporteur to this press. I ask, who is in favour of Mr Benešík taking over the newsletter? Who's against it? In vote number 95 registered 148 present, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. So I will ask the new rapporteur, Mr Ondřej Benešík, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-006-071.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I will not repeat myself for long, just briefly sum up what the Minister said. This is about the fact that this agency is the only agency of the European Union located in the Czech Republic, extending its scope to the complete space programme of the European Union. Of course, this will require increased personnel requirements, and these logically lead to the need for greater room for this agency. It is nothing more than that the Government of the Czech Republic, as guarantor of this cooperation between the Agency and the Czech State, ensures these premises, or it is nothing more than that the Government is entrusted with finding more suitable premises for this agency. As for the benefits for the Czech Republic, they have already been mentioned here. I'd just pierce one. This agency logically attracts foreign companies or their branches, which are linked to space research, and it is also congress tourism. We could continue the benefits, or in their enumeration, or I would like to call on you to release this press to the next reading, with the suggestion that the guarantee committee for the discussion of this press should become a foreign committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-006-071.u5	Thank you. I am opening a debate in which I do not see any logged in. You're not applying, so I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? . [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: It is not.]] I do not see interest from either the petitioner or the rapporteur. The proposal is the only one, and we will address the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Committee of Foreign Affairs. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anyone. I am opening the vote on the commandment of this press to the foreign committee as a guarantee. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 96 registered 148 present, for 136, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. There was no further motion on the commandment of the committee. I would therefore like to thank both the rapporteur and the rapporteur and conclude on this point. In the meantime, an apology arrived from Mr Richard Brabec, who today apologizes for health reasons. Opening item discussion number
