ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u1	31. Government bill on some measures against the spread of terrorist content online /house print 285/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u2	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I present to you the draft law on certain measures against the spread of terrorist content online. Although this type of criminal content occurs relatively little in the Czech Republic, in some other Member States of the European Union the situation is very different. Therefore, there is a risk that if an information platform for terrorist content is disposed of in one Member State, it will move to another's platform and continue to spread publicly. Therefore, last year the European Union adopted Regulation 784, in order to introduce effective and uniform procedures against terrorist content in all Member States. Terrorist content is clearly defined at European Union level. Member States, and this is important, cannot extend this definition in their own legal standards. And another important thing, in order to avoid any misinterpretation - what we are discussing here, it is only public content. This law does not address private communication. For example, these may be the perpetrator's footage of an attack on a mosque in New Zealand, which has spread massively, or from so-called jihadist executions. Such content supports terrorists and their goals. On the contrary, it can't be normal news or any type of scientific study, no matter what anyone thinks of them. The key is that if the police identify any specific content as terrorist, the hosting service has an obligation to withdraw it, usually within one hour. Sometimes, however, this period will be longer, depending on the specific situation. This is defined in more detail in the law itself. [[16.40 hours]] The removal orders can also be used across borders, but if they are addressed to Czech platforms, our authorities can review them. If there is a frequent presence of terrorist content on any hosting service, it will be obliged to take appropriate steps to reduce its occurrence. No platform can be forced to actively search for such content, not mentioned at all, nor to deploy filters when uploading content by the user. This is also not covered by the draft. Hosting services and users who share content on them will be able to defend themselves against its removal in a court of law. The proposed bill does not go beyond the obligation arising from the regulation, the procedures - and I would like to stress this, we do not extend the regulation as the Czech Republic in any way, the implementation of the European proposal - the procedures under the regulation only follow the procedures under Czech law and where the regulation requires it, we introduce offences. Penalties for offences are moderate in the draft law, but those who do not respect orders to remove content hardly will be subject to higher sanctions provided for by European Union law. The main role in the implementation of the regulation is laid down by law to three institutions. Police, specifically the task force responsible for the fight against terrorism, will seek and issue orders to remove IT providers of hosting services both in our country and abroad. The Ministry of Interior will examine whether foreign removal orders addressed to our hosting services go beyond the regulation and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, and finally the Czech Telecommunications Office will supervise how platforms respond to the occurrence of terrorist content and, where appropriate, impose fines for offences. Regulation No 784 had an annual adaptation deadline, which expired in June. Because of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies and the crisis situations caused by Russia's aggression, we are delayed in the adoption of this law, as well as about half the other Member States of the European Union. Thank you for your attention and, once again, I would like to emphasise that our proposal goes absolutely beyond what we are to implement from the regulation of the European Union and, at the same time, I would like to say that this is only about public content, and that legal standard does not deal in any way with private communications in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask now that the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Petr Letocha, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has already said, the proposed regulation was created because of the adaptation of the regulation to combat the spread of terrorist content online, laying down rules against the abuse of hosting services to publicise terrorist content online. This Regulation defines what terrorist content is and what is not, establishes the competence of the competent authorities and applies to service providers, information companies which, at the request of the user, store and make publicly available material or information to them, irrespective of whether the storage and public dissemination of such information and materials is of a technical, automatic or passive nature. The proposal itself only adapts adequately, does not extend beyond the regulation or the scope of the compulsory persons or the nature of the subject matter. The proposal therefore does not involve among the addressees the obligations of the provider other than hosting services, which serve to present content to the public. According to the proposal, therefore, it is not possible to prosecute other than terrorist content, even as regards the content of criminal, otherwise illegal or even potentially inappropriate content. The proposed legislation has several functions. The first is to issue removal orders directed towards the hosting service provider in order to remove or disable specifically identified terrorist content. The authority that will evaluate whether it is terrorist content and order its removal using a special form will be the Police of the Czech Republic. The second function is to review cross-border removal orders. The revised regulation allows the authorities of the Member States of the European Union to issue removal orders also to hosting service providers established in other Member States. However, any cross-border orders may be subject to review by a particular Member State. In the Czech Republic, the power of such review will belong to the Ministry of the Interior. The third function is long-term work with hosting service providers exposed to terrorist content and will be required to introduce effective specific measures to reduce the occurrence of terrorist content within their hosting services. This is not an ad hoc approach, but a longer-term regulation that will be of a considerable technical nature. This function will be performed by the Czech Telecommunications Office, together with the function of the fourth, administrative punishment in case of failure to fulfil the obligations laid down by the regulations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and please take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Now, before we open the general debate, I will read an apology. Mr Jiří Havránek apologizes for working reasons from 16.30 to 23.59 hours. So many apologies. And now I am opening a general debate to which Mr Hubert Lang has come forward, Mr Zlínský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Minister, colleagues, many things have already been said here, in essence both the Minister and the rapporteur of this press have already mentioned certain things here. However, I would still stop at some things, and once again we could quote certain things that are related to this press. The aim of the proposed draft law is therefore to adapt the legal order of the Czech Republic to the requirements of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU - it is Directive 784/221 of 29 April 2021 on combating the spread of terrorist content online. In particular, in the context of Article 12 of this Regulation, it is necessary to identify the institutions, as the Minister mentioned here also, which will apply the regulation in practice, and to lay down offences for breach of the obligations laid down in this Regulation. Here I would like to say that, in essence, it will still be commanded to certain committees, the Security Committee has not yet been ordered by this directive, and we will probably still discuss this with the Security Committee. In particular, the bill states, in addition to the required factual elements of the offences mentioned - and it was mentioned here again, I would like to make a little more comment. Firstly, orders to remove terrorist content online will be issued by the Police of the Czech Republic. It was mentioned that it would be units dealing directly with terrorism. Secondly, any review of foreign orders to remove terrorist content will be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. And the third, administrative supervision of preventive measures implemented by hosting service providers will be carried out by the Czech Telecommunications Authority, which will also discuss offences. The rapporteur mentioned four basic functions here, and I will mention a part of the press before these functions. The bill is presented because of the adaptation of the Czech rule of law to the European Parliament's regulation - as we have already mentioned here - on combating the spread of terrorist content online, laying down rules against the misuse of hosting services for the public dissemination of terrorist content online. Treating terrorist content online is a close and specific part of the wider problem of illegal content on the Internet. The European Union has previously responded to this issue by adopting binding and non-binding measures. The substantive regulation of the Czech Republic comprehensively affects terrorist offences, including the promotion of terrorism. Although the prosecution of perpetrators of terrorism remains a priority, it is equally important to restrict access to terrorist content online in order to protect Internet users - and that is quite essential - from such harmful content and that activities aimed at defending and promoting terrorism on the Internet are difficult for these people. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 114 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union empowering the European Parliament and the Council to approximate the provisions of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States with a view to the establishment and functioning of the internal market. The main principles of the proposed regulation are governed by the regulation, in particular by ensuring the four basic functions that have been mentioned here. [[16.50 hours]] At the end of the report, since I was rapporteur for this report for our club, I would mention the following. The legislation is designed to comply with the principles of legality, legitimacy and proportionality of intervention in fundamental rights and freedoms. It is concluded that the proposed legislation is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, as defined by Art. 112 Constitutions of the Czech Republic. The draft law respects the general principles of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and its content does not violate the constitutional principles of equality in rights and the prohibition of retroactivity and respects the constitutional principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The proposal is fully compatible with European Union law. The proposed legislation respects the way in which EU regulations are established, the national implementation of the EU Directive. The proposed legislation is therefore fully in line with the generally accepted principles of international law, with the international treaties to which the Czech Republic is bound, including the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and therefore does not conflict with the obligations arising for the Czech Republic from international agreements or the generally recognised principles of international law. The adaptation regulation has an indirect positive impact on the security or defence of the state, although the removal of terrorist content from the online available public space reduces the exposure of persons to terrorist propaganda, thus preventing terrorists and terrorist organisations from intimidating the population or public authorities and preventing potential terrorists and terrorist organisations from gaining sympathy and material or other support for a part of the population. However, given the relatively very small importance of terrorist propaganda in primarily the Czech online environment, the degree of positive impact on the security and defence of the state cannot be overestimated. On the contrary, in some other Member States, the degree of positive impact of the regulation may be significantly increased, which will subsequently be reflected in the free movement environment in the Schengen area at the level of internal security in the Czech Republic. I would like to say here for the YES movement or as a guarantor of this press for our club, we will, of course, wait for further discussion of this matter, whether there will be any unacceptable or fundamental amendments for us, but so far our club's position on the transposition of this standard is positive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Brázdil has now made a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u8	Sure. Thank you for the floor. I understand everything and the logic of the thing, but I can't do it. We're a kind of funny nation. We like jokes, we like exaggerations. And you know that a joke is so many times untranslatable to a foreign language, and someone can see it differently from the outside. It's just, if there's any way to answer who's actually going to judge it, because we're going to know that this is probably behind the edge, but it's part of the joke, so it's probably not doing any activity to support terrorism. On the other hand... In short, if even that's remembered, it's not the end of social media jokes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Rakušan will speak. I ask Mr Zlínský to be patient. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u10	Thank you. Mr colleague, through Madam President, this really will not be about punishing jokes, cartoons, cartoon jokes. This will require videos of jihadist executions, clearly terrorist content without any further discussion. This isn't a censor hit on anything. Here, it's just a content that we certainly don't want anybody on the Internet to spread. That's why I'm saying, no private communications, no e-mails, your published posts, which will cartoon anyone, will certainly be completely out of anyone's interest. This is a material, and I also said in my introductory words, which identifies the police as defective content, the police, and it will certainly not deal with cartoons and jokes that are common in the Czech environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u11	Thank you. Mr Zlínský, who has been duly applied for, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u12	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said here, so I will not repeat the formal things here, since I have half of them. I will proceed directly to my position on this press and express some of the concerns that I have. In view of the fact that censorship was supported by this government in the spring of this year and blocked for the government of uncomfortable websites, it is a concern that this implementation of EU regulations can be used under the guise of combating terrorism to label everyone who will publish on the Internet other than government or EU opinion, to block them or criminalize them. Especially tricky is the definition of terrorism and extremism, which can be quite vague and differ from the point of view of individual states, responsible organizations, or even persons, which we saw, for example, at a time of war in Syria, when there was an evaluation of who is and who is not a terrorist, but a freedom fighter, dependent on the evaluation of individual media, organizations or states. Furthermore, we can remember Turkish President Erdogan and his evaluation of the Kurdish and Gulen opposition, who found asylum in Sweden as refugees from oppression and possibly liquidation. From labeling extreme attitudes to accusing terrorism may not be far away, even directly close. Unfortunately, there is a need for such laws to be proposed at present when such a law could be used against citizens with opinions other than government or media known as non-extreme, on high alert. Surely no one doubts that the call for classical terrorist attacks on the Internet with loss of life or waged against the critical infrastructure of our state is a criminal offence, which can also be prosecuted under current legislation. In addition, the Ministry of the Interior cut off the TEK branch from NCOZ in advance, i.e. to combat terrorism, extremism and cyber attacks, which we already have the SAOKIB, and there moved 150 police officers from NCOZ. Ladies and gentlemen, this government proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union number 784 of 29 April 2021 opens the Overtonův window when we are balancing the gap of freedom of speech under the guise of combating terrorism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and this is Mr. Letocha's rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u14	Thanks for the word. Due to the expiry of the transposition period for the adaptation of the European Parliament's regulation to the Czech legal order, I propose that the committees be reduced by 29 days, i.e. the deadline for discussion would be instead of 60 days 31 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u15	That means cut by 29 to 31. Thank you. The proposal has been noted. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. And I'm asking if there's an interest in final words? It's not like that. The motion to return and refuse has not been made, so we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case, which is why we will proceed to the vote. I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers from the lobby. I've logged out the application, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to log in again with your ID cards, and we're going to wait for the number of entries to settle. We'll wait a little longer. [[17,00 hours]] I have noted the questions that have been addressed by the committee, or proposed as a guarantee committee, and it is the Security Committee. The number of applicants has stabilized for us, and I ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 25, 144 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 141, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. We will now vote on the proposal that was made in the general debate. It was Mr Letoch's rapporteur's proposal to shorten committee discussions between first and second reading by 29 days to 31 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 26 registered 145 Members and Members, for 129, against none. The motion was accepted. We have therefore shortened the deadline for committee discussions. I am terminating the discussion of this proposal. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-002-031.u16	Good afternoon. Let me start another point, which is
