ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I say that President Jakob votes with replacement card number 46. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 106 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 17 June this year. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. And before that, I'll read the apologies. The following Members apologize: Adamec Ivan all day - family reasons, Babiš Andrej all day - working reasons, Babišová Andrea all day - working reasons, Balaštíková Margita all day - working reasons, Bělica Josef all day - working reasons - working reasons, Bělor Roman within 12 hours - health reasons, Berkovcová Jana from 10 to 12 hours - working reasons, Bernard Josef all day - working reasons, Blaha Stanislav all day - working reasons - working reasons, Brabec Richard all day - medical reasons, Burešš Jan the Krutáková Jana - working reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav the whole day - foreign trip, Carbol Jiří the whole day - personal reasons, Cogan Josef within 13 hours - health reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav the whole day - medical reasons, Feranec Milan the whole day - medical reasons, Fridrich Stanislav the whole day - medical reasons, Hájek Jiří the whole day - working kolovratník, Hájek Martin the whole day - working reasons, Hanzlíková Jana the whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons, Helebrant Tomáš the Kubík day - foreign travel, Šimon Šimon the whole day - family reasons - family reasons, Horák Jiří the whole day - working reasons, Hrnčíř Jan the whole day - kolář Ondřej, Juchelka Alešš the whole day - working Pavel - working days - working Kašník, KaňkovskKaňkovský Vít the whole day - working days - working days - family reasons, Kasaly David the whole day - medical reasons - personal reasons - personal reasons, Kohoutek Tomášík Tomáš all the whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons, Koláš Jan all day - working reasons. Furthermore, Mr Faltýnek apologizes for family reasons throughout the day, and Stanislav Berkovec also apologizes for the whole day on a business trip. They also apologize to Kuchař Jan whole day - working reasons, Lang Hubert whole day - medical reasons, Lochman Ondřej until 11.30 - family reasons and from 11.30 to 14 hours - working reasons, malý Taťána whole day - family reasons - family reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana whole day - family reasons, Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka whole day - medical reasons, Olšáková Eliška whole day - medical reasons, Pražák David whole day - working reasons, Wenzl Petra Milan day - medical reasons, RatiborskRatiborský Michal whole day - medical reasons, Sadovskýý Petr whole day - working grounds, Síla Jan whole working day - medical reasons, Staněk Pavel whole working day - medical reasons, Strýček Jiří whole day - medical reasons - medical Stržínek, Ticklek Robert full working day - working zborovský - Miroslav days - medical reasons, Svoboda Bohuslav whole working day - medical reasons, Šimek David whole working day - working day - working reasons, Špičák Julius whole working day - working day - medical reasons - medical reasons - medical Tureček - Karel day - working day - working day - working day - Ivo day - working day - working day - medical reasons - working Volný - Jan day - working day - Vít day - working day - working day - working day - Vondrák day - working day - working day - Helena day - working day - working day - working Vomáčka - working day - working day - working day - working day - medical reasons - working day - medical reasons The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr all day - foreign trip, Bartoš Ivan whole day - working reasons, Baxa Martin from 13:00 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš all day - foreign trip, Blažek Pavel whole day - working reasons, Černochová Jana whole day - working reasons, Gazdík Petr whole day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít whole day - working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal whole day - working reasons, Válek Vlastimil whole meeting day for working reasons. Furthermore, we have an apology from Minister Lipavský for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons and also from Minister Hubáčková apologizes for the whole day for work reasons. We would therefore now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Hayat Okamura and Mr Pavel Žáček. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 1, registered 119 Members and Members, for 117, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Mr Hayat Okamura and Mr Pavel Žáček as verifiers of the 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 28th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I'm just asking, Mr Okamura, do I have your application here, please report with priority right until the debate? Yes, thank you. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 28th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm gonna reengage. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 120 Members and Members signed up, for 115, against none. The proposal was approved and we therefore approved the agenda for the meeting. [[9.10 hours]] We will now proceed to the only item on the show
