ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u1	109. Proposal for candidates from the Chamber of Deputies for members of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. It is planned here, we have prepared one election point, which we will make by choosing a secret, i.e. in the State acts, and it is the proposal of the candidates of the Chamber of Deputies on the members of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements, first choice, first round. It's been a little more time-consuming here at the nomination, so I'm gonna have to - and I'm gonna try to get as brief as possible - get to know the genesis of the proposal or the preparation of this election to date. For this office, the term of office shall end on 1 February 2023 for two members of the office, Mr Jiří Navrátil and Mr František Siver. Two seats from 1 February will be released and proposals for new members of the House will be sent or proposed to the Senate. The Senate, after confirmation, hands them over to the President of the Czech Republic, who therefore introduces the newly proposed members, will appoint them to office. Mr. František Sivera has been appointed President of this office in the meantime, now in the last few weeks, with effect from 1 January 2023. For the election committee, we don't expect it to be a clash of office. We come from such a logic that the moment Mr. Sivera becomes President of that office, that one seat will be vacant for one month. And like I said, since 1. 2. Two newly elected members should be appointed. Otherwise, candidates for members of this office combined propose one Senate President of the Supreme Audit Office, one single senator, and just two Chamber of Deputies. So today's choice will be for these two that we decide on. If they receive an absolute number of our votes, they will be sent or nominated in the form of a nomination by the Senate for the Senate and the Senate, if they confirm them, will pass this nomination on to the President of the Republic. By letter of 21 July, the President of the Senate asked us for new proposals for these two persons proposed by the Senate and requested that these nominations be delivered by 16 December at 12 o'clock. So we're right on the edge of this deadline, and I suppose we could or should be able to do it. The Election Commission subsequently announced a deadline for nominations until 31 October and then extended it until 4 November. We have discussed and adopted the proposals submitted for candidates from the Chamber of Deputies on the electoral committee by way of resolution per rollam number 78, which we have sent to you. It is a resolution of 4 November, where the electoral commission adopted two proposals from the MPs. The first was Mr. Jan Sechter, designed by the ANO movement, and the second by Mr. Petr Vymětal, designed by the Pirates and the Mayors. The election committee here proposes a secret choice. However, there has been another change. On 8 November Mr Sechter withdrew his candidacy in writing, he withdrew it, and the electoral commission had to respond to it, so we subsequently adopted another resolution per rollam number 80 on the motion to withdraw the approval of Mr Jan Sechter's candidacy. This resolution - the electoral commission notes that the electoral commission, it is the resolution number 80 per rollam of 9 November, that the electoral commission takes note of the withdrawal of the approval of Mr Jan Sechter's candidacy and, at the same time, we have announced a new deadline for the nomination of the parliamentary clubs. It was until November 18th. We've received one new proposal from the club of the ANO movement and it's Dr. Aleš Zpěvák. [[13.50 hours]] The Election Commission subsequently adopted a third resolution on this issue, namely resolution 81, also per rollam, of 18 November, where the Election Commission complements nominations with another resolution on the name of Mr Aleš Zpěvák. And, as I said a while ago, he proposes a secret choice with the fact that the House candidate will subsequently refer the Senate, who will elect two candidates for office to appoint the President of the Republic for a six-year term. Finally, in this resolution, we note that the election of two members of the Senate will be referred to the candidates of the Chamber of Deputies who will reach an absolute number of votes in the Chamber of Deputies' secret elections. Recapitulation: on the basis of the above-mentioned processes and the three resolutions in a row, only two candidates will appear on the ballot, as they were supplemented, in the first proposal, Mr Petr Vymětal and in the second new proposal, Mr Aleš Zpěvák. The Chamber of Deputies should elect two candidates in this election. If the election had not been successful either in the first or second round, we would have been asked by the Senate to add another name because two seats have been released and the two seats are proposed by the Chamber of Deputies. Like I said, we're proposing a secret election for the election committee. Now, Madam President, I would like you to open the debate and then vote on the proposal for a secret election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I am now opening the debate. I do not register an application for it, I am done with the debate. We will vote on how to vote. A secret, secret choice is proposed. Initiating vote on how to vote. I said, who's for a secret choice? Who's against it? Voting number 52, 161 in attendance, for 120, versus 3. The motion was accepted. So we'll vote secretly. I will ask the President for further information, because this is the only electoral point, so how much time we will need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u4	It is a secret ballot point, so I will now ask, Madam President, for an adjournment to the meeting to carry out the secret election. We leave the polling room open - I'd round it up - 13 minutes, that is, by 14.05 there will be a choice. And if you agree, I would announce the outcome of the election at 15 o'clock after the break at the beginning of the afternoon session of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u5	Yes. Thank you. I will repeat that by 14.05 it will be possible to pick up ballots in standard spaces and make a secret choice. I'm calling a break. As agreed from Gremium, there will also be a break for lunch, which means we will meet again here at 15 o'clock. I remind the members of the Organizing Committee that the Committee meets at 14 o'clock in standard spaces. I'm gonna load up some apologies. Michal Kučera apologizes from 15 o'clock for work reasons, Pastuchová Jana from 15 o'clock for work reasons, Tesařík Antonín from 14 to 16.30 for work reasons, Ženíšek Marek from 15 o'clock for work reasons. That's all for now. I'm declaring a break until 3:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the afternoon meeting of the 48th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and before we continue the merged debate on paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 of the approved programme, I will ask the President of the Election Commission of Mr Martin Kolovratník to introduce us to the outcome of the election which took place earlier today before lunch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u7	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I will announce the outcome of the election of the candidates of the Chamber of Deputies to the members of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements. 159 ballots were issued for this election, 159 ballots were also submitted, so everyone who came to the election took part in it. There were 0 ballots not surrendered. The call calculated by the participants in the election was 80. The results are as follows: Mr Petr Vymětal has 64 votes and Mr Aleš Zpěvák 139 votes. The result is that Mr. Aleš Zpěvák was elected in the first round and will be proposed by the House in the Senate for further assessment or choice. Mr Petr Vymětal has not yet been elected and progresses to the second round, so it will be necessary to repeat the second round once again in this election. And I will add, following a preliminary agreement with the presidents of the MPs, that we would have held the second round today, and this will be at the end of this meeting day. I will also allow myself, on behalf of colleagues who will then manage the meeting so that you do not leave after the final vote, the election will take place quickly, so that the House will try to complete and nominate both names. After adding up the results, I will introduce the results here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-010-109.u8	Thank you. And so we can continue.
