ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and Amendment of Certain Laws (the Copyright Act), as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Printing 31/ - First Reading [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] I ask if the Minister of Culture would come to the table, which I have seen here - but I can't see him now - Minister Martin Baxa... I see him now. Thank you, Minister. At the same time, I would also ask that the rapporteur take the place of first reading, Mr Šimon Heller. And now I would ask Mr Martin Baxa to give us the bill tabled. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to present to you a bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on copyright law, on copyright rights and on the amendment of certain laws, or copyright law. The reason for submitting a proposal for an amendment to the Copyright Act and other related laws is the obligation to transpose two directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, namely Directive 2019/790 on copyright and related rights in the single digital market and Directive 2019/789 laying down rules for the exercise of copyright for certain broadcasting services and transmissions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u3	Minister, I will interrupt you for a moment, because you certainly do not speak very well into this noise, and again I would ask all Members to remain calm in the Chamber. If you need to take care of something, go to the foyer, at this point the Minister of Culture is talking about the copyright law. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Both directives are part of the modernisation of EU copyright as set out in the Single Digital Market Strategy of May 2015. The need to modernise copyright was triggered by the rapid development of technologies and related new possibilities and ways of distribution and use of copyright works. The aim of the directives, and thus of the amendments tabled, is in particular to achieve a well-functioning market for copyrighted content, mainly through the introduction of a new right of periodicals publishers and a special regulation of the liability of so-called storage sites. Internet companies, such as search engines, social networks or press monitoring companies, which generate profits, inter alia, by taking over the content of periodicals, will have to enter into licensing agreements with the publishers of periodicals and pay them a reasonable remuneration corresponding to the scope of the content received. As regards so-called storage, the aim of the amendments is to ensure that there is no content against the will of the authors, which is now a very serious topic in the Czech Republic. The amendment sets the storage obligation to obtain a license from the authors, and if it does not obtain it, it will be obliged to remove the particular work reported by the author from the repository. If the repository fails to fulfil these obligations, it will be responsible for copyright infringement. Furthermore, the aim of the amendment is to adapt exemptions from copyright to the digital environment. This is an exception for so-called mining of text and data, mainly used in science and research, for example for the determination of artificial intelligence, but also in the commercial sphere. The new regulation will provide legal certainty that for these purposes it will be possible to use copyright works without the need to conclude license agreements. The second exception concerns the use of copyright works in teaching through digital technologies. The new regulation will allow you to use digital and copyright works not only in classes and closed intranet networks within the Czech Republic, but also across borders within the EU. At the same time, the amendment provides for the need for the digital use of textbooks and other materials specifically intended for teaching to conclude licensing contracts. This shall in no way affect materials financed by public funds and intended for public dissemination. Last but not least, the licensing procedures for the use of digitised cultural heritage are simplified by memory institutions. In principle, the proposed regulation to copyright adopts binding provisions of the two transposition directives, only in some cases it makes use of their optional provisions, such as exceptions and restrictions on rights for the use of digital and cross-border teaching activities. The proposed regulation further amends the Civil Code, since the issue of licensing agreements of objects protected by copyright, which are also affected by the proposal, is regulated legally in it. At the same time, the criminal code is changed in a partial way, to which the factual nature of the offence against rights protected by the copyright law on the protection of new rights of publishers of press publications is added. Similarly, the factual nature of the offences is added. In the context of specifying the regulation of so-called intermediaries, the proposal also includes an amendment to the trade law. For the sake of completeness, I also add that, for reasons of replacing the existing concept of recovery in relation to databases, it is necessary to make formal adjustments in two other laws where this concept exists, the law on the right to information on the environment and the law on basic registers. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me draw attention to the fact that the transposition period of the two directives has already expired on 7 June 2021 and infringement proceedings have already been initiated by the European Commission. This may soon be at the stage of the reasoned opinion and threatens to put the matter before the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to impose a significant fine. The proposal has already been submitted to the House once, but due to the end of the parliamentary term it has not been possible to discuss it in the same form. For the reasons set out above, I propose that the House release this proposal for second reading. So much for explaining the content of this bill. I will add one more thing to this, colleagues and colleagues. I am aware, of course, that the amendment to the Copyright Act always raises big discussions, because the players it touches are a large number and those actors often have conflicting interests, and it is not easy to balance them under copyright law and this copyright law. I've already had a debate about this with some of the MPs. We're ready to continue the debate. [[11.50 hours]] Then I will suggest that the time limit for discussing this law be extended between first and second reading so that there is sufficient time to discuss this issue at a time when this law, which I firmly believe, and I want to ask you to do so, will pass through the first reading. So certainly I personally, my colleagues at the Ministry are ready to discuss this subject within this extended period and we are ready to discuss any possible proposals for adjustments that may come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u5	Thank you, Minister. I suppose there will be a proposal to extend the time limit you mentioned. And now I would ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Šimon Heller. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u6	Madam President, my dear government, my colleagues, most of the information on the Government's bill amendment has been heard here, and I will only add three details. The first, as has already been mentioned here, the deadline for implementation was 7 June 2021, the amendment was submitted to the House last June 23, 2021 and it was not discussed because the new House was elected, and it was currently submitted in its new composition on 4 November. The second information, the estimated impact on the state budget is estimated at 68.5 million and concerns primarily the remuneration for lending in libraries and the cost to publishers and authors. The last information I will mention here: the President of the House has proposed ordering committees, namely the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u7	I also thank the rapporteur, and before I open the general debate, I would like to read two more apologies. Mrs Eliška Olšáková apologizes from today between 11:40 and 19:00 until the end of the day, and further details of the apology of Mr Andrej Babiš, who will attend today from 13:30. And now I would like to open a general debate in which they are already duly signed up, and the first person to sign up is Mrs Klára Kocmanová. I'd ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, dear government, I will just briefly mention what my colleague Jakub Michálek announced yesterday and therefore that we will also have amendments to this press. This is because, in the past, the pirát had a number of reservations about both the European directive itself and its implementation, especially because of controversial automatic filters that could lead to the lubrication of content, such as memes, satire, but also some educational materials. We are not the only ones who have reservations about this directive. For example, Poland contested this Article. 17, the so-called upload filters, at the European Court of Justice. The bill has been prepared since 2019 and is thus from the workshop of the previous government, which refused to listen to our comments. However, the Pirates will support this proposal despite reservations at first reading, but in line with the Government's programming statement and the Pirates' long-term programme, we are going to put forward several amendments that will strengthen the protection of users' rights and authors' rights. There is also a seminar on this subject in agreement with the Minister at the Ministry of Culture, which will take place on 6 April and where you are all cordially invited. There it will be possible to discuss our individual proposals in more detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u9	Thank you, Madame. Now the next party to the general debate is Mr Karel Rais. I'll also ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u10	Hello. Madam Vice-President, Ministers, Minister - Ministers here are two - esteemed colleagues and colleagues, let me also comment on the draft copyright law which was tabled before the first reading of this House. I would like to highlight two facts here. Today, the valid copyright law came into force on 1 December 2000, and since then it has been amended several times, as the Minister said - in essence the development of industry and in essence the development is so fast that it is necessary to implement, no longer to amend, but to make a new copyright law. I agree with this, of course. The most important amendments were adopted in 2006, 2014 and 2017. The 2006 amendment completed the transposition of two directives of the European Community of 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, and then a further directive concerned the resale for the benefit of the author of the original work of art. Furthermore, a new directive of the European Parliament on respect for intellectual property rights was also transposed at that time. Then, in 2014, the implementation of the European Parliament Directive on the period of protection of copyright and certain related rights was implemented and the European Parliament Directive on certain permitted uses of orphan works. And then what we have already experienced, the 2017 amendment, was particularly implemented by the implementation of the European Parliament's directive on collective management of copyright and related rights and licensing for multiple territories on rights to use musical works online and internal market. [[On?]] In my opinion, therefore, it is necessary if you want the government to not update the copyright law for more than 20 years, but to present a new version that responds to technical progress in the area of the issue and dissemination of information in public space. The bill was submitted as a press of 1246 by the previous government but was not discussed. The transposition of the European Union's directives into the rule of law should have been carried out, as the previous speakers have already said, by 7 June 2021, so the problem must not be put to rest and urgently addressed. The basic aim of this bill is - in quotation marks - only the transposition of EU directives into the Czech legal system, but it is also copyright in a single digital market. It is about facilitating new ways of cross-border online distribution of radio and TV programmes, comparable to the quality of transmission via satellite or cable. From the point of view of the application of the law to the Czech higher education environment, I was personally interested in the issue of unauthorized copying of whole books, which is often recommended by teachers at universities to study in preparation for exams. This method of dissemination of information carries relatively significant financial losses to the publishing house. I would therefore like to take a closer look at this issue at the meeting of the Education Committee. In a broader view, I think it is appropriate to discuss and discuss the issue of digital use of works or other objects of protection to support, enrich or supplement teaching, including related educational activities, as the Minister has already indicated, not only by using online but also off-line. So I can view scanning as digital use, i.e. digitalization from analog copy - it is also related to copying whole books that I point out - and then digital copying, i.e. reproduction from the original in electronic format or from the Internet, including digital copies of authorial works or their parts into powerpoint and similar presentations, projection into e-tables, insertion into internal networks and virtual educational environments stored in internal databases. I think that, in the last House period, the technical issue of this law was given great attention, as Minister Baxa said here, and I basically think that the bill is well prepared. But on the other hand, I think it would be a good idea to discuss it in detail with some of the partial problems in the committees and that we are essentially on the verge of adopting this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u11	I also thank you, Mr Ambassador, for your speech and now the next person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mr Ondřej Babka. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me sum up the essentials of the amendment to the copyright law and present the opinion of the shadow Ministry of Culture, shadow minister of culture, colleague Jermanová. [[12.00 hours]] The new legislative regulation not only brings our legal standards into line with the EU, it is therefore a implementing law, but above all it protects authors better and improves citizens' access to copyrighted works. The original draft, although amended several times, is no longer fully in line with the new Union regulation, which contains some new elements or more detailed rules for the application of exceptions and restrictions on rights, the exercise of rights, etc., and therefore is necessary from the perspective of Czech law to amend this law. One of the reasons for the amendment is a major shift in modern technologies. Just to give you an idea, at a time when the original design of the copyright law or the original copyright law arose, for example Mark Zuckerberg was still in high school. The first version of Facebook was created only four years later, not to mention other platforms that publish content under copyright protection. During the last parliamentary term, the Ministry of Culture submitted this law last year to implement these two directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. This was in 2009. [[right 2019]] Unfortunately, we didn't have time to discuss this in the last parliamentary term. The first of these directives sets the rules for the exercise of copyright in online broadcasting and in broadcasts taken over, it is a directive known as OnlineSatCab, and the second regulates copyright in the single digital market. The aim of this proposed regulation is therefore to adapt the existing legal framework to the new Union regulation. However, this is not a directive and an amendment that would be self-effective and only copied from Brussels. Undoubtedly, they will lead to improved licensing procedures for the use of content protected under copyright and its availability, even across borders. It will also adapt the legislation on the use of copyright for the purposes of science and research, for the purposes of digital education as well as for the purposes of digitization and preservation of cultural heritage. Overall, the aim is to achieve a well-functioning market for content covered by copyright and to increase international competitiveness in this area. The amendment to the Copyright Act in practice will contribute to the settlement of the current environment and will help authors in the protection and availability of their works. Furthermore, there will generally be greater legal certainty and protection in this environment. The amendment will have a direct impact on the state budget - mentioned here by the rapporteur - in connection with the proposed introduction of the right of remuneration for lending in libraries for publishers and the related proposal to valorize the remuneration for authors for lending in libraries. This estimated impact on the state budget will be approximately CZK 68,5 million, including VAT. It will also have an impact on the business environment, where there will be clearer rules for sharing content online. I'm sure a colleague will be talking about that. I certainly didn't describe all the changes that are affecting the novel, and it wasn't my goal at the moment. We will certainly continue to deal with this press, it is a rather extensive and complex modification. But at the same time, I believe that we all feel the need to adopt this law and that we will be able to find common ground when it is approved. I certainly welcome the fact that the seminar will be held on this subject, as has been announced here. At the same time, this press will certainly be discussed in the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. And perhaps, given the focus of this law, I would also ask the Chair of the Sub-Committee on Culture to consider discussing this press on the subcommittee on culture. At this point, I thank you for your attention and look forward to hearing this law further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u13	I thank Mr Babek. Let me also say hello and continue to manage the meeting. Another enrollment is Mr Lubomír Brož. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u14	Thank you. Have a good day. Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, I would also appreciate the Minister's approach when he said they would ask for an extension of that deadline. I think that this amendment certainly needs some discussion within the committee, perhaps some adjustments that we can get to after the discussions, but I do not want to anticipate this, of course. A lot has been said and I will try again to pick some things that were not, and concentrate on one particular area. I would also like to clarify the objectives of this government bill, which headings are covered by the government bill, and I would like to focus particularly on one of those parts, and this is the principle of the country of origin as an additional online broadcasting service. In spring 2019 two new copyright directives of the European Union were adopted, namely Council Directive 93/83/EEC, or the Directive on rules for online broadcasting and transmission taken over, and the second was the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 219/790 on copyright in the single digital market, or, as I will further state, the Copyright Directive. Both directives are part of the reform of EU copyright, which was launched. It was set out in the Digital Single Market Strategy in May 2015. The two Directives aim at modernising Union copyright and achieving a further degree of harmonisation of the national laws of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Economic Area relating to copyright and related rights in the areas covered by the abovementioned Directives of the European Union. Why this is necessary, I will mention it in a moment. Although a number of provisions in the above-mentioned new directives of the European Union are at least partially, in some cases they are already included in the national legal order of the Czech Republic, namely the Copyright Act and the Civil Code, it is still necessary to add some details of the new EU legislation to the national law in order to fulfil the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. It is also necessary to supplement those provisions of directives which are not yet contained in the legal order of the Czech Republic at all. The specific objective of the directive on rules for online broadcasting and transmission and copyright Directive is to improve licensing procedures for the use of copyrighted content and to improve the availability of copyrighted content, even across borders. The Copyright Directive is still an adaptation of the legislation of exceptions to exclusive copyright for the purposes of science and research, specifically for the purpose of extracting texts and data for the purposes of so-called digital education, meaning the use of copyrighted content in digital form in education and for the purposes of digitization and preservation of cultural heritage - that is also an important thing. Another thing is to achieve a well-functioning market for copyrighted content, because whether we want it or not, it really is a market. [[12.10 hours]] In view of the diversity of issues covered by the new EU directives, this issue is divided into eleven headings. The eleven circuits are: firstly, the principle of the country of origin for additional online broadcasting services. I'll focus on that a little bit. Second, it's a collective management for broadcasting. Third, direct delivery of the signal. Fourthly, exceptions to exclusive rights for the exploitation of texts and data. Fifthly, exemption from exclusive rights for digital and cross-border education. Sixth, extended collective management of rights for the use of non-marketable works. Seventh, mediators and alternative dispute resolution, because of course there will be disputes. For the eighth, the rights of publishers of press publications. I think that this point will also be discussed on the committee. Ninthly, the rights of publishers and publishers to substitute bonuses and other compensations. Also the important thing of this amendment and the reflection of these rewards and compensations. Tenth, obligations of online content sharing platforms. For the eleventh, fair reward and contract law. As you can see from the eleven points, this is a really large issue. I would like to focus on one particular circuit, the first one, and this is the principle of the country of origin for complementary online broadcasting services. The Directive on rules for online broadcasting and reception of broadcasts introduces in Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v))) (v)) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))))))))) (v)))) (v) (v)))) (v)) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v 3 the principle of the country of origin for so-called complementary online services, and this principle applies to the settlement of all rights that must be available to the broadcasting organisation in order to communicate or make available to the public The aim of this Directive is in particular to facilitate the settlement of copyrighted content rights used not only for broadcasting itself, but also more and more in so-called complementary online services, such as simultaneous online broadcasting, back-view services, podcasts and, where appropriate, online disclosure of accompanying information to broadcast programmes. This may be, for example, promos, photographs, videos from filming, certain reviews and other things, so that the content made available through additional broadcasting services is to a greater extent accessible throughout the European Union or, where appropriate, the European Economic Area, or, of course, in several Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area at the same time. How is the Czech rule of law currently? I'll just take the most important things. Czech legislation on the regulation of additional online services as defined in Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It does not contain the provisions of the Directive. It is therefore important to adopt this amendment. Furthermore, neither the Copyright Act nor the Civil Code in the section governing the licence contains any special regulation of the territorial definition of the licence agreement as it results from Art. 3 of the directive, and this is the extension of the territorial scope of the licence to the territory of the whole European Union or to the European Economic Area, of course. The principle of proportionality of the rate of remuneration is regulated in the Czech copyright law in relation to the rates of remuneration collected by collective administrators in Section 98e para. The amount of remuneration determined by individual contracts between holders of rights not represented by collective administrators and broadcasting organisations shall not be limited in any way in the copyright law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, they are collective rights managers and, in theory, independent rights managers, as well as, where appropriate, the Agency, etc., they are primarily broadcasters, i.e. broadcasters, radio or television broadcasters, and they are holders of rights to broadcast content and their representatives. It is important to note that indirectly the entities concerned are also consumers, which should be improved as a result of the simplification of licensing and, of course, where appropriate, expand the supply of content provided by broadcasting organisations in the framework of ancillary online services. I would like to conclude completely by saying that this legislation must therefore at least be supplemented in such a way as to correspond to the new binding Union arrangements contained in the Directive on rules for online broadcasting and transmission taken over. It is therefore necessary to add to the rule of law the principle of the country of origin, necessarily, for additional online services, the definition of relevant additional online services for which the principle of the country of origin will apply and the transitional provision. Finally, just from my point of view, the proposed legislation as a whole is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, as defined by Art. 112 The Constitution of the Czech Republic does not violate the principle of equality in rights or the principle of the prohibition of retroactivity, respects the principles of legality, legitimacy of objectives, proportionality of intervention in fundamental rights and freedoms, as well as other general principles of constitutional law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and another envoy is Mr. Zdeněk Kettner. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, members of the government, I will have my speech a little shorter, because something that I had already prepared has been said by some of my previous speakers. I understand that we are facing some fines, that time is pushing us, but I also have some complaints other than what my previous speakers have said. Implementation of the European Union Directive only transfers responsibility to data space providers and tries to tax them. The copyright law, as has already been said here, has been amended several times in the past, and even the products used for data storage have been subject to a so-called copyright fee. In practice, it means that anyone who buys any storage device on which data can be stored, or a printer, automatically pays a so-called copyright fee and thus pays a kind of tax to copyright associations, and it doesn't matter whether they store or print their photographs on it or whether they are copyright works of other authors and not their own. These products are sold annually in the Czech Republic by large quantities and the amount collected is certainly not negligible. The introduction of an obligation to pay some new copyright fees for providing space on servers, where this tax has already been paid once in the form of an copyright fee on hard drive capacity, thus appears to be an attempt at further and further payment of stored content charges, and even under high penalties with two-year unconditional penalties. It therefore appears to be a double taxation of the same and, for this reason, I recommend that this law be brought into line so as to avoid double taxation and to return it to the applicant for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u17	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová came forward with priority rights. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I apologize to my colleague for going before him. First of all, Minister of Culture, honourable Members, I would just like to respond briefly. I would like to thank you for the speech of the Minister of Culture. He said here in his speech that this is a transposition of the European Union directive, but I would still like to address him at this point and I would like to say to him that in the previous term, we have already tried to present the copyright law here. It didn't get on the agenda and we presented one important thing that concerns businessmen, you certainly know about it, and it's copyright fees. I was putting that proposal over there with my colleague, Mr Feranc, and Adam Kalous. [[12.20 hours]] It didn't get there, and we would like to make an announcement that we would also like to submit the proposal again for this transposition. It's in Section 23. It affects businessmen who today, for example, in a hairdresser's shop, if they watch radio, television, they have to pay copyright fees for it. I must say, for example, a hairdresser who has an establishment and who has a TV or a radio, has to pay CZK 10,000 a year for it, which is a lot of money for such a businessman. That is why we already have the proposal prepared, and we would like to announce that we will present it for the YES movement. At the same time, we would also like to support it, because it affects especially small businessmen. So that's what I was gonna say here. I understand it's a transposition, but it was said that the deadline would be longer. I very much welcome this, and we would really like to be on your side to support this proposal, which the YES movement will submit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u19	Thank you and I will now ask Mr Jáč. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u20	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, dear government, dear colleagues, allow me to mention some of the details that seem very positive in one case, in the other case they may still have some problems during the application. But it can show up later over time. In such a certain selection of some new paragraphs, I liked § 31a, which introduces a license for digital teaching. We, who are still teaching - like myself - at some universities or universities, can welcome this insertion, this new paragraph, because he says: "The school, college or school or educational establishment does not interfere with copyright, if it uses digitally the work of teaching for illustration purposes, not for the purpose of achieving direct or indirect economic or commercial benefit, and if this is done in the premises and special purpose facilities of the school." This is very useful for us, because sometimes for distance and combined students we need to use purely digital such basically copied means and there is no risk of any conflict with the copyright of the original author. So let's say we can accept this as a positive thing. The second point is that the section of the license for cartoon, parody or pastime has been added. It can be said that if this work is properly used in the standard in the sense, in the form of cartoon or parody, it does not interfere with the work, the copyright. But in the case of a trap, I'd say it's a critical attitude from me. It is sometimes possible to fail to comply with the form or standard of pastis as mere imitations, but a forgery, because that would mean a breach of some copyrights already. Such an example of pastiš in our conditions was also necessary completion of the fourth part and further continuation of Haškov Haškův, which is generally accepted that there is no interference with copyright. It would still be possible to discuss whether to include the so-called simulation, which is a kind of empty content, a form that is very often used in media representation. Examples are types of different science fiction, series type Star Trek or Matrix or similar. But even here, I think that there might be some controversy or clashes in the future, with some sequences or passages being taken over, or they might run into some copyright claims. So, overall, I think that the law is beneficial because it regulates the use of imitations in today's new digital environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. I keep pointing out that we are in a general debate. Am I looking to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? [[This is Minister Baxa.]] The Minister is interested in the general debate, not the final word?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me just remind you, co-workers, that somebody left their glasses here. [[Member Jáč reporting.]] Very important thing. As I have announced, I would now like to make this official proposal for an extension of the deadline for discussion between the first and second reading by 20 days as promised here. That's the proposal. Then I'd like to add one more thing. I would like to thank you all for a very substantive debate on this subject. There have been several proposals or a visa of proposals that will not be completely easy to discuss, but that is never about the copyright law. But like I said, we're ready. By telling Mrs Kocmanová here the exact date when the seminar is, I can already do so, that for all of you who are interested in participating in this event and who are involved in discussions on copyright, this may be the case. If I may ask, please advise your interest to me, and then I'll send out invitations with specific information on the site and the exact time of the seminar. So, besides my proposal, that's the only way I wanted to complete it technically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u23	Minister, thank you. We are still in the general debate. I wonder if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? If not, I will end the general debate and ask the Minister if he wants to speak again? [[No.]] Not anymore. The rapporteur? . [[Not either.]] As we now have a proposal to complete the proposal from Mr Zdeněk Kettner, we must vote on this proposal at the moment. I dare to summon everyone to the main hall. I'll check you out at the same time. I signed you up again. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Once again, please just specify, and please rest in the hall, we will vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of returning the submitted proposal for completion? Who's against it? In the vote 33 registered 152, for 15, against 133. Result: rejected. [[12.30 hours]] We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to a committee other than a guarantee committee? I can't see. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I repeat once again: Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, registered 156, for was 153, against no one. Result: accepted. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. So does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees for discussion? Vice-President of the House of Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u24	Thank you for the floor. I see President Adamec, and I would like to propose this press to the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u25	Thank you. We will therefore vote at this moment on the proposal from the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, the commandment of the next committee, the Economic Committee. So we all know what we're going to vote on, the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee? Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered 157, for 70, against 71. Result: rejected. So I still ask if anyone has a motion for further commandment to the committee or committees to discuss? Member Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u26	I'm just voting. I'm late for vote number 33. I don't have an application for drugs. Some kind of technical error, I guess. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-004-005.u27	Thank you, so the vote is not in question. As there is no further proposal for further committees or committees to discuss, I note that we are only waiting for a vote on a proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days, or, overall, for 80 days. Then we all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's up for an extension of 20 days to 80 days? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 36, registered 159, for 158, against no one. Result: accepted. Thank you, everyone, and I conclude with this point. I thank the Minister and thank the rapporteur. Let me start another point, and that's
