ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u1	166. Financing the development of school infrastructure from IROP 2021-2027 /Department document 911/ This House document contains the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports No 66 of 14 June 2022. And I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr David Šimek, to take the floor, stating and making a motion for a resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to present to you a report based on the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, this matter has been discussed at its 13th meeting on 14 June 2022 and adopted Resolution 66, House Document 911, in which it asks the Chamber of Deputies to call on the Government to address the situation of financing, capacity increase and modernisation of professional background in regional education. The text of the invitation to the Government is part of the motion for a resolution, which I will introduce you to at the end of my intelligence report, i.e. to the end. Part of the House document is the explanatory memorandum, which I will now try very briefly to sum up for you. In the Czech Republic, we have long-term problems with the capacity of primary and kindergarten schools, which were even more highlighted thanks to the influx of refugees from Ukraine, and we need to find the means to increase these capacities. To do this, it is widely offered to use resources from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, where these activities are unfortunately allocated 7 billion less than in the past period. Of course, there are discussions about a higher allocation, but if we want to address insufficient capacity, we need to find money for them. And if we do not have them from divided European funds, we can either involve the state budget or address this through relocations during the programming period, i.e. unused funding from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme can be shifted to this strategic objective 4.1, Education infrastructure and investment in capacity expansion and modernisation of the technical background of kindergarten, elementary and secondary schools. This is what the House of Deputies should call on the government to do, according to the resolution of the Education Committee. Now I would like to read the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this point, which is based on the resolution of the Education Committee number 66: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to I. for the necessary capacity increase and modernisation of technical backgrounds, kindergartens, elementary schools and secondary schools, which have long been struggling with a lack of capacity and underfinancing, sought funding for their support also within national resources; II. Undrawn funds from the IROP and, where appropriate, other operational programmes identified during the implementation of the programme period 2021 to 2027 have been transferred to support the strategic objective 4.1, Improving equal access to inclusive and quality services in the field of education, training and lifelong learning through the development of accessible infrastructure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u3	I also thank you for this introduction and I am launching a general debate which I see with the priority right of the Minister's application. Please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Yes, thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give some information and comments for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports on this point. The challenges for raising the capacity of kindergarten schools were announced 23. 8. 2022. From the call for transition regions for municipalities with extended scope with index 8+ was exhausted to 7. 9. about 72 percent of the total allocation of ORP money, with the 7+ index in less developed regions, is about 31 percent. We expect the follow-up challenges to be in the mode of decreasing index, i.e. 6+ and further up to 4+ in case of sufficient resources. [[11.20 hours]] It has also been agreed by the ministries that, in the event of relocation, money will go to kindergarten, it is actually the government's priority. The current amount of funding in these programmes is 3.5 billion for kindergartens and we would probably have to increase it to about 5 billion to meet the ORP's 4+ application. The original estimate was 1.5 billion, but the prices of construction materials and works are rising, I think by at least one third, and we can't wait for it to fall back again, although some signals are encouraging and the materials are slowly beginning to fall. In the case of primary schools, where 6 billion are going mainly to build professional classrooms and equipment, we would have to raise money from national funds. As Minister of Education, of course, I welcome the call of the Education Committee and, as I said, the potential overhang of money will go to education, but we will have to look for money in national resources as well. So thank you for your support and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u4	děkovat you, Minister, and with priority rights is the Minister and Vice Prime Minister for Digitalisation Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u5	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am basically in agreement with the description, as has been said here by the rapporteur and subsequently by the Minister of Education. It is what I would call it, the cycle of life - if, at some point, there is not sufficient capacity in kindergartens and we do not progress in all levels as well, logically there will be pressure on capacity in primary schools and even in secondary schools, which we can now see in large cities when demand significantly exceeds supply for the year or those possibilities. And we are prepared, in cooperation with both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, to look for other solutions that concern both kindergarten, primary and secondary schools. When we looked at what possibilities are real at this point and what is so-called in the game, only from the challenges that we had in basic education in the current IROP programme remained - this is the previous period - that is, 277 projects remained unsupported for the total volume of CZK 2.1 billion and we already know about the preparation of other projects in the territory. So even in the 2001-2027 programming period, demand is significantly higher than the amount of resources that allow us to draw European resources. [[2021?]] Currently in the area of regional education from IROP, from Integrational - excuse me, from the Integrated Regional Programme goes about 6 billion and to primary schools it is 3.5 billion, to kindergarten schools it is 3.1 billion and to secondary schools - sorry, and kindergarten schools, and 3.1 in secondary schools. So it's about a third less money than it was in those areas in the coming programming period, because the total volumes in the IROP have decreased. For your idea, I will add that during it 315 kindergartens were supported, 1 051 primary schools were equipped and renovated and were equipped and renovated by professional classrooms in another 514 secondary schools. We have announced calls for kindergartens in the new IROP and are planning calls for individual projects for primary schools. The challenge will be CZK 3.2 billion, but I would like to stress that these are not the only means that will be directed towards this segment. A further 2.8 billion are prepared in calls for elementary school projects, which are implemented under an integrated instrument of integrated territorial investment for agglomerations, i.e. for the situation of large cities and their surroundings, known under the abbreviation ITIS, and other funds for this type of investment will be implemented in community-led local development through local action groups, which are currently preparing to target rural strategies. We could not negotiate more money for the whole area of investment for regional education than we currently have in the approved IROP programme. I'll explain. The Czech Republic must meet the binding limits of the so-called thematic concentration, where 75 per cent of all resources must go into smart and green investment, and education falls within the area of social Europe, where the remaining 35 per cent of allocation competes with areas such as health, social integration, roads, culture, tourism and already mentioned community-led development. It is therefore a common reality that, during the implementation of programmes financed by the European Funds, weaker demand in some programmes will show that it is not possible to draw them out, which were the things that are in the package where we can look, and from such areas it is then possible to propose a relocation to regional education. However, now all programmes are being announced and challenges and their fitness will be shown in a year at the earliest. However, I'm not saying let's postpone this by a year. Let's talk about how we can stimulate or satisfy the demand and, for example, prepared projects that have not been successful. Another option, of course, is to add funds from the state budget through national grant titles, but here it is a condition to have money available in the state budget and we had a debate yesterday during the state budget discussion. I have, perhaps only a brief return - two such views from the opposition, paradoxically even in one speech, whether it was a Member or a Member, where on the one hand we are talking: Here the state should add, here it should invest more in either one or the other, and at the same time there is criticism of the overall deficit of the state budget. I think, as we have also talked in the last parliamentary term, as well as in education, the availability of education is crucial, the emphasis on access to education infrastructure from primary schools, pre-school education to secondary schools is absolutely essential. And I believe that we are going to have this debate intensely at the moment when we are discussing the budget for 2023. It is only necessary to realise that the possibilities of relocation of European money have limits, in particular, on the obligation to divide thematic concentration, and I believe that, in cooperation with both the Committee and the House, as well as with the Ministry of Education, we will strengthen these things and find some solutions to satisfy the maximum possible. Of course, the overhang is really huge, but we're going to be looking for more tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u6	I also thank you, and we can now proceed to the duly signed up for the general debate, where the rapporteur comes first. So I challenge him, he may approach the counter, and Mr Zdeněk Kettner may prepare himself subsequently. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u7	Thank you. Thank you both Ministers for the constructive approach in this matter, as you have heard here, 72 percent of the allocation for kindergarten schools is exhausted these days, and only those requests are open for the territory of eleven municipalities with extended scope, so you can see that really for very small territories, and that is why I believe that in the future there will be money and projects that will be accepted into the stacks, will be satisfied from any future funds released. I realize that the Czech Republic is currently solving other problems, but if we want to have quality Czech education, we must stop the long-term underfinancing of development of school infrastructure and therefore thank you if there are any available funds in the foreseeable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u8	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Zdeněk Kettner, Mr Ivo Vondrák, will prepare the final enrollment. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u9	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for this challenge as Vice-President of the committee that is presenting it, and I would really like to ask you and ask you to support this call. Several electoral periods have been a long-term problem, education is taken, sometimes I feel like such an unwanted child, the ministers of education alternate as they do on the running belt and education are actually suffering quite noticeably. I know that we are in such an economic situation that there are financial problems, but we need to realise that this is really an investment in the future, and we, as legislators, should think about the future. So I ask you once again to support this challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u10	Thank you and Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u11	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me speak here as chairman of the committee saying that I would like our colleagues from the club to support this challenge, because the money in education within the IROP is really 7 billion less and there is no choice but to look for other resources to further support the development of these kindergartens and schools. So I think it's important, I think we don't have a lot of options, we need to sign up for it. And when I just remind you that yesterday there was a round table going on about the results of our schools in different parts of the region, it turns out that the participation of children in preschool education is the one that determines even further results, so it turns out that this is undoubtedly a positive step, and we should support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u12	Also, thank you, and will I make sure that anyone is not interested in signing up for the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I ask if the rapporteur is interested in the final word? No. Therefore, we will now proceed to the debate in detail and again I do not see the applications, but at least there should be a reference to the motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u13	Thank you. I am once again signing up for the motion for a resolution which was tabled at the outset.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u14	I thank you, too, and I, therefore, because there is no interest in the next application, conclude a detailed debate. For the record, will I make sure that there is no interest in the final word? With priority rights, the President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u15	I'm just gonna have to ask for a five-minute break at the STAN club meeting. It's no big deal. I'll meet you here in five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-007-166.u16	Copy that. On the proposal of President Cogan, the pause is announced by 11.37, a five-minute break, so we will meet again at 11.37. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 11.32 to 11.37 hours.]] Five-minute break is over. I'll read some apologies in the meantime. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes from 11 to 11.30 hours for work reasons. And we can go back to where we were in the debate, and that is when the detailed debate has been concluded, the rapporteur, whom I will ask to return to the rapporteur's table, has no interest in the final word. And we can proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I will just make sure with the rapporteur - there is no concrete proposal, can we vote in whole, Mr rapporteur? [[Agreed.]] Well, I'm gonna go for it. It seems that we are in large numbers in the hall, and therefore the motion for a resolution has been tabled, it has also been rejected in a detailed debate and is part of the House document 911. And so unless there is an objection to the vote in whole - it is not. I have begun the vote. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? Who's against it? And in the 55 vote, 144 Members voted, in favour of 132, against zero. I am of the opinion that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and conclude with this debate on this point. And I'm opening point number
