ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u1	119. Oral inhalation And so now we come to oral interventions, which are intended, as I have announced, to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, to the Government of the Czech Republic and to other members of the government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw the attention of both the intersecting Members and those who are intersecting the members of the Government, that, immediately after the end of the interspersing on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I now give the floor to the Member, who was first drawn, and that is Mrs Berenika Peštová, to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u2	Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Sir absent Prime Minister, to 1. 1. 2022 a new construction law has taken effect, which addresses the establishment of the Supreme Building Office and the establishment of regional construction offices. We have 24. 3. and I ask how the specific tasks of the law have been fulfilled, this is the establishment of a new financial place in the integrated Information System of the Treasury, changes in the state budget, budget chapter and elimination of funds between the Ministry of Regional Development and the Supreme Building Office. And my second question: How will you justify the failure to meet the milestone, which is the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, and how will you argue to the European Commission its failure to comply when the condition for approval was the reform of the construction administration in the Czech Republic and the Commission agreed to the amount of 1.6 billion for the establishment and implementation of the Supreme Building Office? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u3	Thank you for keeping time. As I have announced, the Prime Minister is excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Patrik Nacher, who was drawn second, will speak with the next interview and Mr Andrej Babiš will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u4	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are so few of us here that you are almost afraid to sit here. I'd have an interview with the Prime Minister. However I understand his absence, however, my point is, in principle, about the present time, i.e. the beginning of censorship on social networks. As we all know, censorship isn't some act that happens out of the blue, but it's a kind of salami method where something starts at the beginning, like in an emergency situation, and then in two, three, four, five years, we find out at once that it can't be stopped. So we're in an extraordinary situation right now, and I understand that, but sooner or later, it's going to end, and for interventions that have the character of censorship, that's going to stay here with inertia. I wonder, then, how it happened and in the future, as it turns out, it will happen, blocking individual websites, why aren't we already using the existing laws that apply to spreading hate, spreading - I don't know - child pornography, and there are many of these things listed? Because CZ.NIC said it was in agreement with the Ministry of the Interior and possibly the government. The government, as I found it, denies it. I wonder how and where the decision was made and how it would continue. I'm saying, some of these websites, I can imagine, but this carpeting raid seems to me that it can damage debate, debate with us in the long run, and it can be reborn in other topics in the future, such as inappropriate opinions on covid or Green Deal and so on. The Prime Minister isn't here, so I'd like to ask him for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u5	Thank you, too, so it was Mr Patrik Nacher, and with further interpellation the Member and Chairman of the ANO movement, Mr Andrej Babiš, will perform. Before they do, I have an apology here, an apology from Dr. Jaroslav Dvořák, who apologizes for this afternoon's meeting, i.e. March 24th from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons. And now I'd like to present Mr. Andrej Babiš's interpellation. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u6	So hello, Prime Minister, I greet you in Brussels. Please remember the emission allowances. Remember when you criticized me? And now you have the European Council, so keep doing what I said. Change the directive, put a stop to emission allowances. It has an impact on electricity, 25 percent on electricity. It's very important because we're having an energy crisis. [[14.40 hours]] Now, look at this, that's the inflation, Prime Minister. [[He's showing the sign.]] So inflation, so-called Babiš's expensive, 5.3 percent. Do you know why, Prime Minister? Because we reduced VAT in November and December and were 14th in Europe. You think this is Putinův's price. Of course it's nonsense. It's not Babišův's precious or Putinův's precious. It's global inflation. And now you're better, you're the third worst in Europe or the best. So please try to do something for the people. Today Germany gives tax discounts, cheap city public transport. You want to take our pensioners' discounts, too. You didn't do anything. Supposedly, you'll be celebrating a hundred days of your reign on Sunday. And Ukraine, I don't have any comments, except, of course, those refugees, you might finally be able to record by profession. You should record where they're moving afterwards. The permanent residence institute, yes. Apartments, building law, Bartoš - brake, ÚZSVM has land, buildings. Try running the government. I understand you only have Ukraine, but I don't know how it is or who's driving. So it doesn't work. Twenty-four EU Member States have taken measures for people, the United Kingdom, all of them. So I'd like to ask you... [[I'm sorry, your time.]] ...when will you finally do something for Czech citizens? You have our suggestions very specific, so I wish you a nice meeting in Brussels... and I wish you luck. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u7	Thank you. Mrs Lucie Šafránková will speak with the next interview and Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I would like to ask you what is the current situation regarding aid to entrepreneurs affected by the impact of restrictive measures on the Coronavirus from November last year to February of this year, when these restrictions were still in force. On the website of the Ministry of Industry and Trade are not yet published calls or parameters of the COVID program - Uncovered costs, Sectoral support and COVID 2022 - Sectoral support, which has already been approved by your government on 16 February. Nor do the entrepreneurs concerned have any information on the state of the matter and its timetable. This assistance should mainly cover tourism, catering, accommodation and cultural and sporting events. According to previous statements from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, an accelerated approval procedure was to be carried out to obtain the notification of the European Commission for these programmes, but there is no information on these programmes or their management, either on the website of this authority. Dear absent Prime Minister, tell us, and especially those of our entrepreneurs and their employees, please, when they will finally be able to use these programmes and when they will get to at least partial financial compensation for the government's restrictions on their business and their work. A programme of financial assistance and compensation for tour operators has also been announced in recent weeks. Specifically, it was a COVID - BUS project. What is the situation with this program? When will it be approved and when will it start working in practice? Thank you in advance for an early answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u9	Madam, thank you for your time. And now, with further intervention, Mr Martin Kolovratník will speak and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u10	Hello, thank you for your word. I, Prime Minister, in my question, will engage in my interpellation with digitalisation, one of your promises, or the promises of a government coalition, which you have also reflected in your electoral and then government program: digitalization. We all know - and we agree on that across the political spectrum - that it is the key to competitiveness, to our economic prosperity. Colleagues agree - as I hear the Minister say, how they are formed - it is true. That's our match, but at this point, I think the match is over. I'll quote from your program. I quote from what you have publicly declared: "We will make sure that the memory of the state improves. There will be data running between the authorities, not a citizen. And once you provide your data, we will never ask you to do it again." End of quote. Well, what's the reality, Prime Minister? Minister Rakušan dismantles and dismantles Czech Post and solves thousands and millions of problems around Czech Post. Minister Bartoš is engaged in dismantling and repealing the construction law - it is, after all, a topic that we will discuss here tomorrow. He's talking about some kind of virtual drawer that's going to be plugged into something digital, and that's it. No one's digitizing. We don't know who the responsible person is, who's holding the agenda, here's your promise, which we'd like to support as opposition, who's in charge. I just heard that some of the projects fall directly under the Office of the Government, or under you, Prime Minister. Let me just remind you that in the former government of Andrej Babiš, we had one person, one government agent for digitization, Vladimír Dzurilla, and a lot of things went well. I'm not saying everything's worth a thousand million percent, but we have the Citizen's Portal, the agendas are expanding, the services are working, you can connect it digitally through bank identity, through data boxes, and so on and so forth. So I have two specific questions: firstly, what exactly does your government do for the development of digitalisation in the Czech Republic, who is responsible specifically for this? And second of all, if you have any milestones at this digitization point here, you're going to fold the accounts and when you're going to show what you've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u11	Mr. Ambassador, there's been a little overdue time, but by saying those two questions, I've closed both eyes. At the same time, I will say and recall that the Prime Minister is excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten will speak with further intervention at the moment, and Mr Jan Síla will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I was here last week intersecting you about energy prices, fuel prices and other things, so now it is also reflected in food prices. I dare say that even Germany has already intervened in terms of prices and so on, and from the V4 countries we are basically the only ones who do not solve in any way such as the state of some kind of ceiling or aid to citizens in need, if we leave out some of the alms of 200 crowns, for which people have to wait quite frankly at the offices. Moreover, this government does not address, as did neighbouring governments, the ban on exports of wheat and other strategic foods. The bakers themselves are buzzing that bread will cost 60 crowns or more if the government doesn't. I also learned that you want to prolong the emergency situation, even though the surrounding states have no emergency situation, and Ukrainian citizens are also going there. I think it's very simple, because the cops tell me that they have to serve overtime for free. So you do it at their expense, at the expense of their salaries, must serve a hundred and more hours. Regarding the things you have done for the citizens of the Czech Republic, or what you have done for the citizens of Ukraine, I ask you: Are you Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or am I wrong? And you're Ukrajinec, just like Mr. Vystrčil wanec? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mr Jan Síla will speak with the next interview and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to interpel the Prime Minister on state insurance payments. The State pays about 60 per cent of the population's health insurance premiums, which, in the long run, represents about a quarter of the average wage premium, while state insured people consume almost 80 per cent of all the funds that go to the health sector. [[14.50 hours]] From 1. 1. 2022 there was an increase in the payment for state insured persons under the Government's regulation. The assessment base for state insured persons in this year is CZK 14 570 and the calculated premium is CZK 1 967 per month and the insured person. Your government has reworked the state budget in which it intends from 1. 7. to reduce the assessment base to the level of the second half of 2020, i.e. to establish the assessment base of CZK 11 607, from which the payment for state insured persons will be CZK 1,567, i.e. minus CZK 400. From the originally planned income of the health insurance company 139 billion it is to be CZK 125 billion. These 125 billion still need to be added to the 46 billion that the state will pay for Ukrainian refugees, and we are getting around 129 billion, which still means a deficit of almost CZK 11 billion compared to the planned income of health insurance companies. In addition, you have reduced the Ministry of Health's budget chapter by 6 billion. Reduction of state insurance payments is an unprecedented step that continues to destabilize heavily tested health care economically and subsequently staffed. The total deficit is 20 billion. [[Prime Minister, your time.]] My question is: will you address underfunded health care by further increasing our state's debt? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u15	Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak with further intervention at the moment and Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u16	Madam Vice-President, Mr Absent Prime Minister, to 1. 1. 2022 a new building law has taken effect, which addresses the emergence of the Supreme Building Office. I am interested in how the selection of the President of the Supreme Building Office has been carried out or carried out, whether the systemisation of jobs has been submitted, on the basis of the agenda 283/2021 and 284/2021, also in accordance with the effective law. If that didn't happen, what is your explanation for flagrantly violating the law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u17	Thank you for keeping up with the lady's time. Mr Martin Kolovratník, Mr Radek Koten, will be ready with further intervention. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u18	Thank you for your word, Prime Minister, I have a second interview here today. Now, I'm gonna stay in the Department of Transport and ask about the coalition stance or your relationship with the government of the five-calice, in the case of the navigability of the Elbe. I will explain that there has been an agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the maintenance and development of the international inland waterway. It's a document that lies here in the House. He passed your government about two weeks ago. It's the House press we have here, it's ready, it's in the agenda of this meeting, I don't know if it's going to be discussed now or in April. That's the exact name of the document. I assure you that we will support this document under the YES movement because it was still under the previous government, in our work. We have always supported the navigability of the Elbe to the node of Pardubice, where I come from. Let me just remind you that it is enough for the navigability to complete two traffic or water nodes, two places, that is, in Děčín and in Přelouč. The Elbe will be navigable throughout its length in the territory of the Czech Republic, so support for us. But what has resonated here in the long run is the resistance of one of your coalition partners, members of the coalition, the pirát, to the navigation of the Elbe. It resonated here in the past period and in the past, every time we dealt with traffic laws, water road support, building law. Pirates have always resisted the navigation of the Elbe, whether Ivan Bartoš or in the past period environmentalist Mrs. Dana Balcarová. So I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, when we vote here on the navigability of the Elbe, what will be the position of the government coalition when it comes to this important vote, which is also a message to the partner, to Germany, how will the coalition parties stand up to it? Isn't the approval of this document gonna put further discussion in jeopardy? Won't it be a coalition split? Or are you waving your hand at the fact that a major four Pirates club is not going to stay or vote? Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Radek Koten will speak with further interpellation and will also be prepared for further interpelation, because he has more intervention. So at this point, Mr Radek Koten and his two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I have to say, I can't bear that much happiness in one day. I would ask the Prime Minister about his trip to Ukraine, because people, voters, write to me that it seems strange to them that the trip took so short a time, because even Ukrajinec who have been working here for several years and are from the area, whether from Kiev or its surroundings, told me that it took 30 hours to get there under very good conditions. So I would ask the Prime Minister where he really was, or if he really was in Kiev. Those people counted it. Those trains that would go there would have to go at 478 kilometers an hour. I dare say that TGV doesn't go to Ukraine yet, so I would really like to ask him where he really was at the meeting, unless it's classified. Personally, I also dare to say that it was a nightmare of protection service, such a journey. I am not quite sure whether the protection service which is in charge of the protection of constitutional officials would actually do so in this form. I can't really picture it. But as a PR solution - of course well. But I would also further ask whether the Prime Minister was discussing some other issues there, because some of the opponents - I think I caught the article on Parliamentary Leaves - also asked if there was any other treaty of the split wing of NATO. So these are questions I'd like to ask him very much. I hope he answers the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u21	Thank you for keeping time. I will reiterate that the Prime Minister is duly excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. At this point, I will say that Mr Radek Koten - and his next two minutes - will speak with the next interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u22	Thank you. I have one more quite fundamental question for the Prime Minister, because this government has declared that we can do without Russian gas and without Russian oil. He also told the citizens of this country who drove for CZK 55 per litre of fuel that it was necessary to reduce consumption so as not to encourage aggressive Russian policy. On the other hand, this government - I am not saying that members of the government, but essentially Mrs Pekarová Adamová is also part of this government coalition - the government special was flying to the EXPO in Dubai. So I would very much like to ask how much the journey cost, how much fuel was burned, which is already expensive, and how many passenger cars could drive on this fuel, to its equivalent, to diesel or to conventional petrol - because I know it's aviation kerosene. In this case, I would therefore like to know how this government imagines the investigation, because the citizens of the Czech Republic here count each crown, turn it four times in their pocket, slowly take a newlywed loan for refueling, and the government flies to EXPO fairs in Dubai. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, I must say at this point that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted. As I have already announced, the Prime Minister is excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I would ask Mrs Berenika Peštová to present her interpellation to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Martin Kolovratník will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u24	Madam Vice-President, Minister, to 1. 1. 2022 a new construction law has taken effect, which addresses the establishment of the Supreme Building Office and the establishment of regional construction offices. We have 24. 3. and I ask how the specific tasks of the law have been fulfilled, this is the establishment of a new financial place in the integrated Information System of the Treasury, changes in the state budget, budget chapter and elimination of funds between the Ministry of Regional Development and the Supreme Building Office. The second question: how will you justify the failure to meet the milestone, which is the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, and how will you argue to the European Commission its failure to comply when the condition for approval was the reform of the construction administration in the Czech Republic and the Commission agreed to the amount of 1.6 billion for the establishment and implementation of the Supreme Building Office? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u25	Thank you for your time and I would now ask the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u26	Thank you for the floor. Madam, it's a bit of a shot off the target, but why not? You know as well as I do that the issue of the Supreme Building Office falls within the Gesture of the Ministry for Regional Development and the issue of the National Recovery Plan is part of the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. But there's no problem with me answering your questions. If we are genuinely concerned about how it will be with the Supreme Building Authority, I recommend that we support the House Press 137, an amendment to the Construction Act, which, from our point of view, eliminates the bad idea of the gigantic Supreme Building Office to a reasonable limit. However, formally, from the point of view of the state budget, those steps have been taken. You have noticed, Madame, that in the draft state budget approved by the Chamber of Deputies, there is a new budget chapter with the number 363, the Supreme Building Office, so formally everything is fulfilled. And it's also true that The Chamber of Deputies approved the Government's proposal that there are zero Czech crowns in this chapter. This is the government's political decision, because the budget is the government's political decision and then the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. However, formally, the steps you asked about how it was arranged in the Treasury system, that's what's being done. Only there are expenses from the decision of the Chamber of Deputies set at zero, and after approval of the proposed amendment to the Construction Act, which I suppose will happen - but you are right, we are still at the beginning of the legislative process, so we can estimate when it will be. I will not go into these estimates, but we have the will to approve this amendment, and we have a government majority, so there will be a partial postponement of the establishment of the state construction administration and the actual establishment of the Supreme Building Office, and the agenda will continue to be implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development and financed from its budget. And as far as the National Recovery Plan is concerned, I would recommend a pretty detailed meeting when there's room for it, because so sloppy and so poorly prepared document is rarely seen. At the moment when the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is on a foreign business trip, is here, we would get quite detailed information about all the projects planned and would be divided and marked with green ones that can be implemented, which are in good condition preparation, and red, which shows significant problems in this project, and it is basically a red document. At this point, negotiations are under way with the European Commission. We are not by far the only state discussing upgrades or updating the National Recovery Plan. It is dealt with by almost all Member States, and some have not even approved it yet. I think you know all this well, so we will also deal with this milestone in such a way that the pumping is not compromised. I merely recall that in the state budget for this year, the planned expenditure of the National Recovery Plan is covered by the European Union budget of CZK 45.3 billion and the detailed breakdown by chapter, component, as well as the distribution of current and capital expenditure is quite detailed in the document prepared in the draft state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u27	I thank the Minister of Finance for keeping time within the framework of the reply and ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question. Yes, he does. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. While it is true that I have asked you how you will argue to the committee that the amount that has been released for something has not been applied to it at all, but this is your fight, as you say correctly, you are the government, you decide, or you are the ones who rule. My point is that we have citizens here that we call ourselves the rule of law, we have laws that take effect, we all follow them, and we want them to be respected. Construction Act came into force 1. 1. 2022, Amendment Act 1. 2. 2022. What you put here in the Chamber of Deputies, you're trying to somehow slow down or justify something you're not doing. I'm just asking how you're gonna defend this flagrant violation of the law, because you don't follow the law at all. The law is here, and you don't follow it at all. That's my point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u29	Thank you for your time and I will ask for the Minister of Finance's reply. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u30	If I understand correctly, you are asking, Madame, how will we argue when we negotiate the update of the National Recovery Plan? So I won't negotiate, it's logical, according to the resort, but I suppose the argument will be a change of legislation. And to do what you say, we also need to take care of the proper economy. If we have the will to change the building bill to make it better and more functional, it seems irresponsible and uneconomic to make spending that would actually be one-off and that would prove to be unnecessary spending in a few weeks or months. That's the argument. We warned you about this in the last term, you didn't hear about it. I fully respect that you and the SPD had most of the votes you made. On the other hand, if we have such a high deficit and we want to deal responsibly with taxpayers' money, and if we consider such an expenditure to be inefficient, we simply have not done so. And it is not the decision of the government, it is the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. It's one thing the government put it that way, which I fully subscribe to. As a member of the Chamber of Deputies, I fully declare that I voted in favour of this proposal. But it was a free decision by the lower chamber of our Parliament that approved the draft state budget. I think we should keep in mind another thing, and in those general declarations, we actually agree that the construction process should be shorter, more flexible to build better. We differ in the view of what instruments, which institutions to use. That sounds like a legitimate political dispute to me, there's nothing wrong with that. We simply have a different view of this question than you do, but I respect your opinion and your grip on how to ensure that we simply have shorter building procedures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u31	Minister, thank you for your time and your response. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Martin Kolovratník, who was drawn next in order to present oral interpelation to the Vice-President of the Government for Digitalisation and the Minister for Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš. At the same time, I will say that Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u32	Thank you. You see, the construction law line is going to blend into my interpellation, even though I said it a while ago, it's going to be mostly tomorrow. And it's a shame that Zbyněk Stanjura has just left, that his performance needs a little more reaction or addition. The construction law here was finally voted by 106 votes, 106 Members of the previous House finally confirmed it, so it wasn't just YES and SPD. And as I'm saying, it's a shame that Zbyněk Stanjura left because I'm following up on what he was asked about and what he was responding to. I also respect, it is a political decision, it is one political opinion, it is another political opinion against it, but dear colleagues and kind absentee Minister Bartoš, you are not prepared for this change. So, as Zbyněk Stanjura has now advocated that you want to do it in a different way, different from us, that you have a government majority on it, so I will just say briefly: we are at the end of March, as Berenika Peštová said, the law applies from 1 January. And I could imagine if your pre-election vows were paid and you were competent and ready, well, you could probably - well, not in November, but maybe in December - you could bring a good, good novel, put everything down, make all the speeches and be conformal. It's the end of March and you haven't done anything yet. [[15.10 hours]] And the idea that you want to postpone that novel, move it forward quickly, is, frankly, a little out of reality. It will just take some time here in the House, then the Senate will comment on it, it can come back to us, then the President will comment on it and so on. What I want to illustrate is the unpreparedness, it is a message mainly to the ODS that your coalition partner Pirates, in my opinion, do not know what it is about, and Minister Bartoš is simply not ready. In his Facebook account sometime on January 19 he said very briefly: We want to abolish institutional integration, according to the new construction law the building office should take over everything, but we want the principle of one office - one stamp. So the minister doesn't want institutional integration... [[Prime Minister, your time.]] I'm done, it'll just be the question, please, five seconds. I ask how you want to achieve the principle of one office - one stamp if you want to leave the construction offices in the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u33	The Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš is duly excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Now I would like to give the floor to Mrs Karla Maříková, who has been drawn next in the order that will give an oral interview to the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. According to Commissioner Johanssonová, full support for the introduction of compulsory solidarity in the redistribution of refugees from all Member States of the European Union has been achieved. According to the French Interior Minister, this compulsory solidarity in the redistribution of refugees will not be voluntary, a large solidarity mechanism will be introduced on immigration distribution issues and great financial support will be paid to those who want to physically take immigrants into their territory. This new so-called solidarity distribution of refugees therefore replaces the rejected compulsory quotas. It has been announced that the definitive approval of the Agreement will be signed in Brussels on 3 March. You should have signed for the Czech Republic, and I was wondering if the signature ever happened because I didn't register anywhere in the media if that was the case. And what degree of solidarity will the Czech Republic have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u35	Thank you for your time, and now I would ask for the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Vít Rakušan. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Madam Vice-President, through Madam President, I am very happy for this interpelation because, in the space of virtual, even in the words of various politicians of various parties, particularly those of opposition, and on their networks, there have been various information. It's always the easiest to ask, and you're the first to do it here in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm grateful for that, because when someone asks, they get an answer. And the answer is clear: 3. 3. there was no mandatory solidarity in Brussels at the Council of Ministers of the Interior. The subject wasn't on the agenda for our meeting. Can be traced from official documents that 3. 3. seven hours were discussed in Brussels as a temporary protection institute for refugees from Ukraine. Seven hours were held because the V4 states at the beginning of the negotiations did not agree with the French draft declaration. We have had many separate negotiations and a Polish proposal has finally been approved, which has been agreed by all the countries of the European Union, including Hungary, which had at the beginning the biggest substantive reservations against the original proposal. Thus, the subject of compulsory solidarity was not open at all. The subject of compulsory solidarity at this point, according to my information, is not going to be presented by the French Presidency on Monday at the Council of Ministers of the European Union, and will again be exclusively on the subject of Ukraine, the immigration wave, which is coming up, where, by the way, the Czech Republic itself is preparing a document which we will try to introduce to our partners, which identifies and defines the Czech Republic as a affected state, and we are trying to reach all levels of support from the European Union to the level of all border states with Ukraine, that is, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and so on. So it's misinformation? It wasn't about it. Nothing's been approved. Experienced negotiators - one I see here - know at European Union level that nothing is signed. I remember the former Prime Minister here also telling us that no Green Deal signed, and he was right because it didn't sign anything. But I didn't sign anything, but the subject wasn't even open. Again, it's traceable in official documents. And I still have time. That's a good point. We definitely reject mandatory quotas for the Czech Republic, we have it in the programming declaration. I think it is a continuous position of the Czech Republic on the subject. Mandatory solidarity as some idea of the French Presidency will not be discussed either, according to my estimates, due to the current changed situation in the international field, and the subsequent Czech Presidency will certainly not raise the subject of compulsory solidarity to its agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u37	Minister, thank you for keeping the time to answer. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes, he does. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would also like to know what the conclusions of the resolution, the Polish proposal you mentioned, are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u39	I'll ask the Home Secretary for an answer to the supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u40	Absolutely, thank you. That is exactly what we have then approved here in the Chamber of Deputies. Perhaps I suspect - if there is time, we will get there - this is, I think, an institute of temporary protection, where the French Presidency's original proposal did not define persons from third countries any closer. On the basis of the objections of Hungary, Slovakia, Poland and the Czech Republic, it was then pushed into the resolution that they were at most persons from third countries with permanent residence status in the territory of Ukraine and where the return policy to the countries of origin is primarily supported at that time, so that was the content of the whole debate. At the same time, we also got the Polish party into the resolution, the Czech Republic also gave its proposal for a specific resolution, the fact that the matter can also be dealt with by national legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u41	Thank you, Minister. And now I give the floor to Mr Vladimír Zlínský, who was drawn next in the order to present oral questioning to the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u42	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Agriculture, Russia and Ukraine are the world's major producers of grain - 30%, corn 19 %, sunflower oil 80 percent. As part of the war measures, Ukraine has suspended exports of its grain abroad. Furthermore, Russia produces 13 percent of the global amount of fertilisers whose exports have been suspended under retaliation measures. In this context, it should be borne in mind that 50 per cent of global food production depends on fertilisers. As a result of these and other changes, a worldwide fall in cereal production of up to 50 per cent is expected. It can be assumed that a decline in food production will lead to a further jump price increase in world and local markets, and may lead to famine, social storms and even greater deterioration in global security in some countries. As part of the effort to alleviate the current tensions in society, I therefore ask: What measures have the current government prepared and have already taken to ensure sufficient food for our citizens at affordable prices in the following period? At what price levels of common food for our citizens will you accept leaving the idea that the market sale of cereals on the European market and the free market are the only treatment for these current growing problems with food prices? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u43	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister of Agriculture is excused, I state, duly excused, and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Another person who is ready with his intervention is Mr Roman Kubíček, who will present an oral interview with the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Jozef Síkela. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear absent, Minister, here is our favourite issue of emission allowances, which is what makes me feel strongly about today's energy price affecting the citizens of the Czech Republic. I will just say what the European Commission said when we pointed out that emission allowances had become the subject of speculation. The European Commission has declared that enormously expensive allowances are not the result of investment purchases of non-production entities and has completely rejected the claims made by some market participants that emission allowances have become the subject of speculation. Well, what happened last week? Bloomberg issued the following statement: the sharp fall in the prices of emission allowances, which began on the day of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and continued until 7 March, was mainly due to speculative trades, according to analysts. Mr. former Prime Minister Babiš has already pointed that out to the government. And now what's going to happen? We need someone to negotiate in the European Union to amend the EU ETS emission allowances directive in order to reduce the prices of final products. I'm just going to give some examples here because we're going to go back to coal, and coal is going to double CO2 per unit of that power, which means it's going to be burdened with a larger emission permit, that's kind of perpetuum mobile. Actually, we can't get from expensive gas to coal, because it's going to get expensive again with that emission permit. And I'd just say some terms here. In January 2018, the issue allowance cost EUR 4.85, on average in 2021 the price was EUR 54.2 and the maximum price was EUR 10. 2. 2022 was 97 euros. So I will ask for information on how the Minister will proceed to negotiate the amendment of the directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u45	Thank you. I also note that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Síkela is duly excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Another person who is ready with his intervention is Mr. Josef Flek, who will give his oral interview to the Minister of Education, Mr.Petr Gazdík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u46	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Minister Petr Gazdík about the impact of the covid. Dear Minister, the topic of recent weeks is clear, and it is Russia's aggression in Ukraine, the subsequent influx of refugees came after a two-year wave of covid, whose influence on schools seems to have been forgotten. It was two years of partially closed schools, quarantine time, online teaching, and now mentioned refugee crisis, which will be dealt with by about every Czech school. How will you assure us that the Ministry of Education will be able to return to normal, and what steps is it taking in this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. And now I would ask the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Petr Gazdík. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that we have not forgotten the problems that we have had since we were in school. The fact that we have a war here now, that the influx of refugees is another complication for our schools, but at the same time a challenge for the Czech Republic for the future, is true. On the other hand, the consequences that some of the uncontrolled parts of the covid epidemic caused in schools, the fact that Czech children went to schools at least during the period of the covid epidemic from all over the European Union, is simply a fact, and I would therefore like to stress what the Ministry of Education has done in recent months or years to remedy this situation. Since August 2020, summer training camps have been held for primary and secondary school pupils who missed their studies due to coronavirus, educational days have been organized by the Association of School Sports Clubs with financial support from the Ministry of Education, and thousands of children have passed the educational program. The children had a free program, everything was paid for by the Ministry's subsidy. In 2001, it was 5 169 summer camps in all regions of the Czech Republic in July and August, attended 89 000 children attending compulsory school attendance. The program focused on the movement of children, on tutoring, on the evaluation of participants, on their parents' positive responses. At the turn of September and October 2021, a report was submitted on the effects of the covid-19 pandemic on education, and a follow-up update of the results of studies on the spread of omicrons was developed subsequently. A national tutoring plan was also drawn up, schools were supported by the sum of CZK 250 million from the state budget in 2021, the means for self tutoring, the methodological support of schools, were also involved in teaching faculties. In addition to the support of tutoring itself secondaryly, they focused on activities, the development of all dimensions of the student's personality and the aim is to compensate for psychological and social deprivation caused by distance learning. At present, under the National Recovery Plan, we are addressing the reduction of inequalities in education as one of the key priorities directly linked to the problems caused by covid-19 diseases in the long term, funds amounting to CZK 1 billion to tutoring pupils from January this year to June 2023, school pupils will receive support through tutoring directly in schools and in school establishments, funds of CZK 2 billion to support schools which educate children and pupils socially disadvantaged, which is having a higher socio-economic disadvantage index. I also focus on preventing the digital gap, which is directly linked to the consequences of the covid-19 disease, with funds of CZK 4.3 billion. The aim of the investment is to ensure that digital equipment is available to all pupils and thus to prevent digital exclusion. The investment includes an activity where CZK 1.27 billion was provided to primary schools and lower Gymnasiums for ICT, remote learning equipment, the aim of this intervention is to create a mobile digital management fund for 80 percent of schools. Furthermore, we have investments in the development of selected key academic centres and in the framework of excellent research and development in priority areas of public interest in health, estimated costs of CZK 5 billion, priority areas of medical sciences and related social disciplines will be supported here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u49	Minister, I thank you for your time and ask if Mr Josef Flek wants to ask an additional question? Yes, he does. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u50	Thank you. Thank you for your comprehensive answer. I would like to ask whether it would be possible to say what specific steps you have prepared for this year as the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u51	Thank you and I will ask the Minister of Education for an answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u52	Those were the steps under the National Recovery Plan that I mentioned at the end. These, of course, will now be combined in some way with the support of teaching Czech and support in the context of psychological problems or the integration of Ukrainian children, which we are negotiating with the European Union now, so that these means of the National Recovery Plan can be extended precisely because more than 100,000 Ukrainian children are expected to come to the Czech Republic or have already arrived, and those objectives that are in the framework of the National Recovery Plan due to cod-19 disease and the long-term problems of children in social exclusion are very paradoxically similar to those of Ukrainian children that we are going to include. So here, we're gonna try to support each other somehow. And I have already been to visit Brussels, and the European Commission has already promised to increase the resources in this area. It's being negotiated at the moment. [[15.30 hours]] I believe that... Now a few moments ago, comments came on the Jan Amos Komenský Operational Programme, which we want to deal with quickly so that within two or three months we can draw up the resulting measures so that it can function in schools since September.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u53	Minister, thank you for answering and keeping time. I would now ask Mr Lukáš vlček to speak again to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Petr Gazdík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u54	Madam President, thank you for the floor. The honourable Member and members of the Government, my dear fellow Members, have, as has already been said, also aimed at the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Gazdík. This is the subject of the revision of the framework education programmes, and it reads: Mr Minister, when you came into office, you spoke about the need to revise the educational content, the so-called framework education programmes. And so I would like to ask you at what stage is this process, whether you really believe that there can be a reduction in the content of so-called often criticized memoirs themselves, if you believe that and take the appropriate steps to promote issues such as critical thinking, data source work, and disinformation resistance? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for presenting the interview and keeping time, and I would ask for the reply of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Petr Gazdík. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u56	Madam President, honourable Member, although I have been a minister for 97 days, and although we have experienced the covido epidemic, the obstruction of the opposition, the establishment of the state budget and now the war, we cannot, of course, forget what is the main task of this government in the field of education, and this is to change Czech education, change the content of education, change the system of tests. Each Czech child and any graduate of any school must have one basic skill, and that is to learn new things. We've got to stop memorizing. We need to move on to teaching children how to relate things, the ability to think logically, to think critically. That is what the so-called framework education programme serves for. This week, as the Ministry, we launched a public commentary procedure on what will change in the framework education programme. Anyone who wants to be involved in commenting on this document can decide. I call on all those who are interested to do so. We are interested in public opinion on what children should learn in schools. See http://velke-revisione-zv.rvp.cz/. The public has a month to comment. And I warn you that we are not talking about our own content right now, but only about the frames, that is, how it should be taught what the framework education programme should contain. One of the things that the Ministry's expert committee suggested is that the second foreign language at primary school be optional - I repeat, we do not disturb the second foreign language at all, but we propose that it be optional, that is, one who wants to learn the second foreign language, so that he has the option, and we will even improve his quality of this education, because we propose that from five pupils such a group can be created for the second foreign language. And everyone will admit that in five you learn the other foreign language much better and better than in the case of 20 classmates. At the same time, pupils who have, for example, learning disabilities or achieve very below-average results should be able to choose another subject, such as conversation in the first foreign language or manual skills, based on the decision of the school director. The RVPs will support the achievement of strategic objectives, focus more education on acquiring the competences needed for active civil, professional and personal life, reduce inequality in access to quality education and allow the maximum development of the potential of pupils. Topics such as well-being, democratic principles or sustainability should certainly be taken into account, focusing on teaching modern history. Over the past 20 years, many things have changed around us, new opportunities, new dangers have emerged. While the RVPs went through only partial revisions that were not always conceptual, now we want things to be different. The revision is supposed to find a way between headless bifling and accessing that everything can be found on the Internet. It must be a compromise that we have the ambition to find. It can't be something like a good old-fashioned movie The School of Life, when the professor said the student didn't even know when the battle was at Jerez de la Frontera, for which he couldn't even give him enough - that's one extreme. The second extreme is that we're gonna raise confident individuals who think they're gonna find everything on the Internet, and they don't need anything else. Change must not be left on paper, it must be reflected in schools. We want to involve the public, especially the parents, in what is most important, especially you must understand the need for change. According to the current timetable, the first schools could start to educate according to the adjusted RVP of the first to sixth year in the school year 2024/2025. Everything will depend on when we can create an RVP and prepare and support for schools. It's actually going to be this whole calendar year. I strongly wish that you all be involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u57	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask whether Mr Lukáš Vlček wants to ask an additional question? Yes, he does. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The Minister partially answered, but I would like to ask an additional question, if I may. Lies, manipulation, lack of data work - this is a really big topic not only for our entire society, but I would also say a certain large general lack of our school system in general. Therefore, there is no time to waste and a response is needed. You answered that, Minister, in part. But I would still like to ask, what is the specific timetable, the specific plan for further time steps?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u59	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Education for an answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u60	I already said the first part. The first date is 21 April, until which you can submit comments on the said web form. Then, based on the evaluation of the National Educational Institute, there will be a public tender where everyone can apply to comment on the content of education. Our goal is that the content of mathematics teaching should not be addressed only by the Unity of Czech Mathematicians and Physicists. As a mathematician, I always agree with other mathematicians that broken algebraic expressions in the ninth year are simply a necessity, however, it is something that I think may no longer belong in today's school education program. It depends on the teacher's discretion. By March next year, the work of these committees will take place and then public comment on what will be necessary in each subject, and we would like to approve the single framework education programmes sometime in September next year. Besides, in the meantime, we're gonna be working on a change in graduation. I will be happy to discuss this here in the House with colleagues both from the coalition and from the opposition. We will be working - which is exactly what the framework education programmes require - to change the system of entrance exams. The single entrance exam seems to have survived and provided the state with no information other than how the child is doing in comparison with other children of the same age. We would need information based on ongoing testing or so-called testing at key points or nodal points - how the child moved during, say, fifth to ninth grade. This is basic information not only for the state but also for parents. [[Prime Minister, your time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u61	Thank you, too. And before I pass on the floor to another Member, I would like to read my apologies. Mr Robert králíček canceled his apology at the moment, starting at 15.25 a.m. Furthermore, I have here an apology from Mr Karel Havlíček today from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work, an apology from Petr Bendl, today from 18 o'clock to the end of the meeting for reasons of employment, then there is an apology from Minister Martin Kupka, from 18 to 19 o'clock for reasons of employment, and the last is an apology from Mr Jiří Kobza, today from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for reasons of employment. I will now ask Mr Richard Brabec, who is next in line, to present an oral interview with the Minister of the Environment, Mrs Anna Hubáčková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam Secretary, thank you for coming to hear this interview in person. I think it'll be obvious from the title what I want to ask. Regardless of our political affiliation, which is different, I believe that we agree at least that the boiler subsidies programme that we started in 2015 is a very successful programme, which is really now more than 100 000 people will bring or bring new ecological and also cheaper heating, as well as improved air quality in recent years, which is measurable. In fact, we have prepared another wave of these boiler subsidies for the new government for up to CZK 14 billion from various operational programmes and other funds. But the fundamental questions now, please, two: What does this mean now, what is the timetable for the next steps with regard to the cauldron subsidies? And above all, you said to the media a few days ago that the Ministry of the Environment does not want to further support gas in boiler subsidies, which is a fundamental question, because, of course, gas boilers form a significant part of the boiler subsidies. If this is the case, please confirm this information and when it will be decided definitely, because the wave is starting very quickly and it is important mainly to the regions that will participate in the challenges, to tell what to do next. Of course, hundreds of thousands of people are still waiting for this information. And the second issue, if you are thinking - and I would strongly recommend it - about moving the ban on the operation of the first and second class boilers from September 2022, because according to experts, there may still be more than 200,000 unchanged boilers. It is impossible to make it to September, and today, as we all know, there is enormous uncertainty in the energy markets, that is, the question of what to further support if not the gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u63	Thank you for keeping up with the time and presentation of the interpelation. Now I would ask the Minister of the Environment, Mrs Anna Hubáčková, for an answer. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u64	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President, honourable Members. I actually thank you for asking these questions, they are very important and maybe they would not have been asked a month ago. Now they're very up-to-date, and they're going where our priorities are headed, which means improving the quality of our air. Boiler subsidies are extremely helpful and, above all, helping low-income households. We have already launched the challenges for the regions as they were prepared, in previous years applied and last year for this year. We did not change anything about them, in principle we only wanted to announce them as soon as possible, which happened before the European Commission was notified. We dared to do this - I risk a little - because the interest on the part of the European Commission will be to approve such a successful programme. The regions will then announce calls for citizens sometime at the end of May and early June and at that time, rather in April, we need to know for how much or how we will do it with gas. I didn't say for the paper that we already made the decision, I don't know how it was quoted, but I said that we are very much considering how we're going to support the gas further, mainly because of the fact that low-income households would eventually be able to use gas if they were so expensive. However, the first phase that we've discussed, which we're already dealing with, is that we're dealing with support for a different type of heat pumps, so at this point, I might be able to say officially from 130,000 to 180,000 support to make it more motivating to change maybe even the idea of buying a gas boiler, so maybe the heat pump. For gas certainly in relation to the applications that have been submitted and which are already in implementation, we will not interfere at all, we will let that happen. The number of applications submitted for gas boilers is decreasing, naturally, so I hope that the trend will continue not only in boiler subsidies, but also in New Green Savings. The fact is, in the course of April, we need to make it clear if we leave the gas there, and then hope that the citizens themselves - we will do some education to explain to them that the heat pump is better. New green savings are running, we'd have to give some kind of signal in time, too. And you had one more question... [[Member Brabec from the place: No operation of boilers.]] Yes, the Air Protection Act. It's a question that wouldn't have been hard on me a month ago, certainly not. Ten years since 2012, citizens have been able to apply. Now the question is different. Some citizens have to re-evaluate, some boilers are overwhelmed, we are really serious about it, and we are already making the first version so that we do not make life unpleasant for citizens, that right after 1. 9. There will be some checks that we will delay efficiency - I am thinking about two years - with regard to the price of gas and the capacity of manufacturers and suppliers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u65	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, for answering and keeping time. I'll ask if there's an interest in an additional question? Yes, please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u66	This will be a challenge rather than a question, and the Minister has already indicated it. I would certainly ask both the Ministry of the Environment and the Government to make this decision as soon as possible, because it is really in the interests of tens of thousands of households, who today are logically disinsured by what will happen. Also, as one of the authors of the boiler subsidies, people turn to me and say, "We don't really know if we should be interested now, because you know that even the regions in the allocation they're getting now are already asking people if they want gas boilers. So the matter is fundamentally changing, and this decision needs to be made, just as it is very important to make a decision as soon as possible on any possible shift from September. It is a relatively simple amendment to the Act on Air Protection, but as soon as possible it is necessary to send out a signal that we want it this way, because, of course, these people are also thinking about whether they will make it by September, and they are very often just low-income households that are in a very difficult situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u67	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of the Environment for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u68	I'd like to send out a signal that those very old boilers, first and second generation, citizens, please change, watch the programs. And the others - we will therefore try to take the initiative and extend the date of application of the Air Protection Act, with reasons of course, because we are aware that we are not fulfilling our obligations to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u69	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Marek Novák, who will interpelise the first Vice-President of the Government and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, will now come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am referring to you in the matter of abuse of the Ministry of the Interior for the purpose of obtaining attorney Stanislav Polčák in the case of Vrbětice. It is about your MEP, until yesterday Vice-President of the STAN movement, former Chairman of the Association of Local Authorities. He offered his services to the affected municipalities, but at that time no one knew what price Mr Polčák would charge. Now we're talking about the commission of the 8 million crowns that Mr. Polčák wanted, now he doesn't want it anymore, now he wants a reward for his colleagues' work, we don't know what and we don't know what for. I am aware of your media statement, but this problem is far deeper and more fundamental than mere sales, that Mr Polčák did not mean it, and the amount does not fit. Let us face it: MEP Polčák has traded his political influence as a lawyer. The amendment, which was finalized by the Ministry of the Interior and approved by the overwhelming majority of the Chamber of Deputies, was sold to municipalities that were affected by explosions in Vrbětice for eight mil. I ask you: How will you deal with the future not to be abused by the state administration and the Chamber of Deputies for the purpose of obtaining lawyers and law firms? How do you intend to address this unprecedented situation not in the media? And then how do you explain to the House that it is possible to trade political influence by a lawyer? You're the former mayor of Cologne. What experience do you personally have with this type of legal education? You've come across this? Do you approve of Mr. Polčák's procedure? Did the STAN movement or some of its members have any personal benefits from the $8 million commission? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for presenting the interview and keeping time, and now I would ask for the reply of the First Vice-President of the Government and of the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Ambassador. We each have the right to name our interpelation in the way we want, but in those two minutes - maybe it wasn't enough time to ask you the question and use it in the remaining minute - you didn't hear anything about what you wrote so provocatively in the title here, and that's abuse by the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Interior prepared this amendment at the beginning of June last year, for a completely different political constellation than it is now. It was prepared by representatives of the interior, defence and finance departments. They met repeatedly, they were experts of the ministries during the reign of the previous government. The legislative board was exempted by the decision of the previous government not to go into the interdepartmental commentary procedure. In fact, I don't know why your former ex-government colleagues might answer that, but it didn't work for him. It was then decided by the Minister of the Interior that he would be presented to the Chamber of Deputies as a parliamentary initiative under which a number of Members were signed. I don't know why this method was chosen either. It could have been a ministerial proposal, but it's just some sort of systemic decision. But I can't see from anything that the Home Office would somehow be abused for anything. I do not even see the abuse of the Ministry of the Interior under my direction today, because the Ministry of the Interior is only the place where the Minister pays compensation to individual municipalities and their citizens in miraculously fast terms and so that individual citizens are satisfied with this. So this is where the last government might rejoice that it came up with a nice law. We could be glad that we're doing the administration of things the right way. For another, and I've already said it once: I refuse to see anyone here doing business with the law. There's no one here who's done business with the law. And the fact that Mr. Polčák assumed political responsibility, and that I was the one who called it absolutely impossible to accept this reward on Monday, Tuesday, or when the case appeared, is simply and unambiguously a fact. Yes, I really think that it was a political mistake that a person should not also be a politician and at the same time be a lawyer to municipalities who at that time receive some money from the law that I advocated as a politician. That's a political mistake. I got off to it this morning, personally, in this case, I see a conflict of interest that was here. We criticized the conflict of interest with the former Prime Minister, he never brought that responsibility. Mr. Polčák deduced it yesterday, resigned, ceased to be Vice-President of our movement. For another: all the legal services of Mr Polčák in those municipalities are abolished, they are expelled, which means that he will not have any crown as a lawyer. He does not continue legal advice for individual municipalities, which means he will not collect a crown, not only the reward proposed by the mayor of the municipalities. But he's not going to collect anything for legal advice, because those contracts as such have been terminated, and those municipalities are going to be looking for some new legal representation. So even this information you're giving doesn't really fit. And if I've ever had any of this stuff or our movement, I'm not even gonna respond to this insolence of yours. Maybe I'm judging you? I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u73	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. I'll ask if there's an interest in an additional question? Yes, please, Mr Marek Novák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u74	Thank you. I certainly didn't get over it or mention you. I mentioned whether you had experience, not whether you took anything or not. But that's okay - I'm judging by you, I understand. I will add more, given that more information came out today: in fact, Mr Polčák entered the MEP's card, he treated us more or less as a SMS representative. And then, in some way, it came to pass today that, for every hour, even the hour that Mr Polčák personally sat with me and consulted, he charged 47,000 crowns. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u75	Thank you for the additional question and keeping time. I would now ask for the reply of Mr. Vít Rakušan's Home Secretary. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u76	Thank you. I still have a follow-up answer to myself that I haven't said before. You asked me to deal with the situation, colleague, before that. Well, let's deal with this together, let's enforce the lobbying bill. You say you want it ready, we'll see what it's gonna be like, and let's be clear about what dimensions political lobbying can and must not move, who can operate it and who can't operate it. But let's just remember one more thing: if anyone, and I am among those people who have walked in the Chamber of Deputies, and I have been consulting on this law - perhaps we have also talked about it, I think you were a co-president, if I'm not mistaken, you were signed under it - so we walked and talked to our colleagues about supporting it. We did it at our clubs, across clubs. You and I were doing legitimate political lobbying. Legitimate political lobbying, for which neither you nor I had a single crown. I'm sure it's okay. Mr. Polčák also did political lobbying, you don't have the right information, he didn't have the amount for any political lobbying that you mentioned, and he didn't have it for legal services. The amount you mentioned is calculated on about three lawyers. They gave it to Mr Polčák and there is lack of legal advice to citizens, legal advice to the administration of contracts, and this was not for lobbying, but for legal advice. But that's where I see the mistake. That means Mr. Polčák, as a politician, had the right to lobby for the law. By the way - The law is extremely good. By the way, the law was good for the municipalities. He helped those who left the previous ones in Vrbětice long-term. But the problem is, it's hard to separate the role, yes, but he's proven - and he wants to deal with it at the bar and prove that the money, and certainly not 47,000 an hour, total nonsense, I don't know, total nonsense - of course he wants to prove that he did the lawyer's job as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u77	Minister, thank you for answering and keeping time. Mr Andrej Babiš, who will interpel the Vice-President of the Government for Digitalisation and Minister for Regional DevelopmentIvan will now come Bartoš with another interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u78	Hello, Minister. I want to ask you about living. According to the latest statistics, we have to work in the Czech Republic for 12 years and 2 months. That's not remorse, that's a statement. Now the CNB has even more walled up the senseless prime rate, which means that even young households can't reach mortgages. And I want to ask: we are from the 157th place of the 190 countries of the world in terms of the length of the construction process, so very badly. And I'm asking: you're now dismantling a construction law that could have changed it - a building permit within 30 days. And you want to postpone this law. In a situation where entry into the building industry is rocketing, you consciously prolong this crazy agony, every day delaying efficiency makes people less able to access their own housing and companies to build apartments, community housing, and so on. So when are you gonna wait? No one in the world has as fragmented a building administration as we do. Today, we have some 1,300 separate construction offices in the Republic, where more than 13,000 officials are working. But they are non-representable to each other, so they don't normally follow deadlines, and you will deliberately avoid speeding up the procedure. So I'm asking if it's some kind of STAN libation that you want to preserve the corruption environment at the municipal construction offices and knowingly defend the solution to the current housing situation, or why? I don't get it at all. And I ask, how will you deal with the situation of hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ukraine? They're gonna need long-term housing, most of them, according to sociologists, stay here. So I'm asking, what's the plan? In the government's programming statement you have stated: we will prepare new financial instruments for the construction of available apartments in the form of loans from the EIB and guarantees from the State for loans, we will set the conditions... [[Your time.]] ... construction so that 10,000 additional apartments can be built at the end of the term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u79	Thank you for the interview and I will now request the reply of the Minister for Regional Development. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u80	I thank you and thank Mr Babiš for the question. It seems a little smiley to me that three months after this government is in office, it's been a hundred days, today you've had such an interesting post on your Facebook, you're talking about expensive housing, while the YES movement has been in the government for eight years, and you've been at the Ministry of Regional Development throughout your period. I am not convinced that the bill, as it has now been written from the pen by the chair of the Public Administration Committee Mrs Dostálová, is heading for the building speed chamber in the Czech Republic. Even the analysis, which came from the Ministry of the Interior in the first proposal, which was written by the Chamber of Commerce for the Ministry of Regional Development, was identified as a threat to the jamming of the building proceedings for at least six months. On your question of how to speed up the construction process: I still think it is more in the area of spatial planning and regulatory plans than the authorisation itself. In the substantive proposal that we are going to put forward, and it will be at the turn of March and April to the interreort, there is a reduction in the construction offices -- if I'm not mistaken, 371 offices so that they are available at the place, so that there is representativeness, so that they can manage the appropriate area. Of course, the main element of this whole process is the digitization of the building process, which is in the National Recovery Plan. Despite the fact that Minister Dostálová left me exactly one custom-made employee, which is worth 1 billion, we are working and will be delivered on time. One thing that I think is important, and that's what you're asking about, how we're gonna guarantee that there's gonna be a place to live. I remember when Mrs Marksová was still here, there was a law on affordable housing. Unfortunately, you couldn't agree with the government before the last time that you were going to discuss the law. He fell off the table, then the last term began, the MPSV and the MMR began to negotiate on the social housing law. Then it fell off the table again, and Mrs. Dostálová has now pulled out of the program Construction, which works here in some mode, but according to the SAO even this program did not get the necessary apartments on the market. Well, I'd sum up what we're doing. One. We're going to amend the law in a factual way so that the building process really accelerates and the state didn't have the extra cost of 20 billion to transform it into the Supreme Building Office. What happened with the National Sports Agency, and how it didn't help the sport to function in quotes, is what sparrows are chirping about on the roof and writing newspapers. Secondly, we are preparing a law on affordable housing, which will give municipalities a number of tools to build - building rental apartments, promoting cooperative housing and other forms of housing, and of course we will digitize. On the issue of the refugee crisis. Yes, nearly 300,000 people have come to our territory, fleeing the Putinův War in Ukraine. We at the Ministry of Regional Development with Mr Semorád and with other experts, now and with finances, with the Association of Regions, are preparing a programme that should be launched at the turn of March and April, which will allow building faster - including through a certain exception - housing that will help both in the short term and in the medium term. I am on this subject because it costs money and the deficit budget that you left us does not give us a chance to invest billions at the moment, has launched negotiations at European Commission level on possible resources. The European Commission has provided certain instruments to Member States within the Care package in cohesion funds, but the Czech Republic has drawn money well during the last programming period, so no money for this is now specifically used for construction. On this basis, I have approached eight countries that now have the largest influx of people from Ukraine, we have approached the European Commission, and at this point I am discussing a package of about one billion euros. Whether it will eventually be from the National Recovery Plan as a specific 10% criterion, or another financial instrument, I don't know, these negotiations are still ongoing. So we are trying to address both the availability of housing in the long term and the situation that arises from the war in Ukraine. There's only one thing I wanted to say. The fact that at some point the Ministry of Regional Development has published a My Housing programme, where about 400 applicants have provided a more favourable mortgage than on the market can be very nice, but the situation in the housing field does not solve it. [[Time!]] We have to deal with the side of the offer... [[Time!]] , not stimulate demand, which even increases prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u81	Thank you, Minister. I warmly greet you this afternoon, and please, your time for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u82	It was a classic, Minister. I didn't attack you. I'm asking what your plan is. You're attacking, talking nonsense about the budget, and so on. And most of all, I thank your mayor. You know, there were no apartments for disabled people in Prague, and I'm glad there was an apartment for Ukrainian refugees at Hastalska and Zlatnický. That's awesome! Prague 1, Parisská. So I'm just asking what you're gonna do. So how's the construction going to be? Digitization, what are you saying? I'm asking if you're talking about building modular houses, if you've identified state property. We have such an institution, Mr. Stanjura, it is the Office of State representation in property matters, which has a lot of land, a lot of real estate, even the plan of Letňany would release hundreds of flats. So that's what I'm asking, a specific plan. You're saying some of those floscules. And the important question is why you're defending the solution to the most pressing problem, and that's a significant acceleration... [[Time!]] ...and simplifying the construction process... [[Time!]] ...for the approval of the new buildings we brought you on a silver platter. [[Time!]] The building bill is great. [[I'm sorry, your time is up.]] So that's why you're stopping it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u83	And now the Minister can respond. I'd like to keep up the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u84	Ambassador, I was kind of replaying what I just told you. I didn't attack you in any way. On the contrary, I said what our plan is in a substantive amendment to the law to speed up the construction process. Digitisation as an essential chassis for the construction process, which was also mentioned by former Minister Dostálová. You entertained me with the apartments. I am to the apartment where your government minister Mrs. Dostálová and Mrs. Schillerová lived in Paris - they are not entirely in Paris, but they are related - so we provided our ministry in turn to accommodate families with children from Ukraine. And while we're picking out individual locations, of course, there's a CRAB database. I also talked to Mrs Arajma about the technical aspect of the application in the past period. How much did you provide during your reign of those different land for those PPP projects so that they could be built on them? I finally noticed the transfer of several objects, for this I have to lift your thumb, especially in Prague, but this thing is going on. Today I met with the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank just above the PPP project model and the co-investment of this institution, for example, - only so far on paper - the PPP housing project introduced by Minister Dostálová, former Minister Dostálová, rather in the paper version. [[16.10 hours]] So I've told you the plan here. You can tell your people to monitor, for example, my social networks, where I inform in all steps on housing and accessible housing, and in this regard I also act in the European Commission and in the framework of our future Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u85	Thank you, Minister. I now conclude that the apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, has come out today from 16 to 17.30 hours for work reasons. And now it is time for Mr Jan Síla's intervention, which is aimed at Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u86	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would like to interpel you on behalf of most health professionals and citizens of this country. According to the contested statement by the Prime Minister for the Czech Medical Chamber, I quote: "Payments for state insured persons will not be reduced this year, only left at the same level as last year. Your government's pre-election promise to regularly valorize payments for state policy holders has been cancelled." And as he said for the diary. cz Minister Jurečka, it comes into consideration first in 2024. We may agree with your and the Prime Minister's claim that this year health insurance companies will still have enough funds to cover health care thanks to their reserve funds, but the problems will certainly occur next year, given that health insurance companies will have no reserves, and there will be an additional payment for the health insurance of Ukrainian refugees. And that is why I am asking you a fundamental question: how do you ensure the financing of health care next year, this is in 2023, when the fall wave of corona infection, epidemics cannot be ruled out, and we have to pay health insurance for Ukrainian refugees? In my view, the forecast of 5.6 billion for this care for Ukrainian refugees is undervalued because, according to WHO data, the frequency of tuberculosis is many times higher in Ukraine, resistant to routine treatment, HIV and other diseases. A conciliation procedure should be held on health care payments from March onwards. I'm interested in your attitude towards these negotiations. I don't want to push you against the wall, but I'd like to know the date when you imagine the introduction of automatic valorisation of payments for state insured people and variants of measuring... [[Time.]] ... basics to calculate the valorization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u87	Thank you. The Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek will now respond. And I will read an apology in the meantime, namely Mr Patrik Nacher, from 16 to 18 o'clock for work reasons the Member will be excused. And now the Minister of Health. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u88	Thank you, Madam President. So I've said it a couple of times here, but repeating the mother of wisdom, everyone will remember it this way, and so thank you for the opportunity that I can do it again for the seventh time, and I'm happy to do it. The validation of payments for state insured persons, as is in line with our programming statement, will be from the first possible date, which is probably everyone in this Chamber of Deputies knows that it is January 2023. Unfortunately, we did not become a government so soon that we could valorize the payments for state insured people since January 2022. As far as health insurance money is concerned, this year absolutely care is not at risk. For Ukrainian refugees will be selected insurance, which will be paid by the state. Yes, it is true, this insurance will increase to insurance companies of around 5 billion, perhaps 6 billion, depending on the number of refugees. Moreover, part of the care will be paid from the European Union, typically vaccines. Today we negotiated a delivery of about 30,000 doses of vaccines, which are not part of the scheme in the Czech Republic, but are part of the scheme in Ukraine. This includes the fear of tuberculosis. I understand the concerns, but the concerns are odd, because children are not at all at risk of this problem, but young women face limited threats. We have a set scheme that recommends WHO in general for refugees from countries where there is a greater incidence of tuberculosis, and we introduce this scheme both in the UA POINTs, so we sent them as a recommendation in agreement with professional companies, relevant professional companies to medical facilities, where they are able to carry out examinations including lung images in two screenings in risk groups of patients. Moreover, we agreed this week with the Commissioner, who visited the Czech Republic, that we are very likely to gain access to documentation, medical documentation of patients from Ukraine. But that's just a side point. Now, about the money. We now know that insurance companies' revenues will reach 440 billion in 2022. Revenue - the latest predictions are that the revenue is likely to fall to 429 billion, even after counting all the risks associated with the refugee crisis. This means the overall deficit of the system this year should therefore be 11.4 billion. This looks like a big number, but this number differs by 2 billion from what insurance companies predicted last year and after counting payments for state insured persons. The compensation for state insured people, the increase this year, was based on the fact that the balance would be 11 billion. Today, we are practically sure that by the end of 2022, some 40 billion reserves will be reached, which means that care this year may in no way be, cannot be threatened. And you are right, from the perspective of financing 2023, it is necessary to continue in some way due to conciliation. Therefore, and here I completely agree, it is necessary to have a clear idea by the end of June of how the remuneration for state insured persons will be assessed. This is how I agreed with the providers, this is how I agreed on the conciliation procedure at the moment, and that is actually the answer, and I hope I can do this for an interpelation number 66, which is very similar in this regard. I assume my colleague Koten won't make it to the counter with this interpelling. There is currently a conciliation procedure with the Ministry of Finance on how the valuation will take place, whether it will be a percentage, or it will be based on some calculation. I suppose it will be read as an amendment in the first reading of the Act on State Insurance Payments, and my idea is that it will be a long-term system of valorisation of payments for state insured persons, which must have one essential condition - that the system of state insured persons is something that is not elsewhere abroad - so it must have the essential condition that the payment will not be higher or comparable to the payment paid by those who have a minimum wage. At the same time, the remuneration must predict some development for insurance companies, but it will not have that risk factor, that if GDP or average wage were to be reduced or the minimum wage would have been reduced for state insured persons. It must be stable at this stage. That means I really have no concerns this year. I would share your concerns next year if this amendment had not been adopted, but I assume that there will be no discussion of it, that we will rather discuss a model that is optimal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u89	Thank you very much for keeping time. And is there an interest in an additional question? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u90	Thank you for the information, it was exhausting. Anyway, I'd like to mention why you're doing the same thing for the seventh time, you're saying you're answering. Here is one fact that indeed Minister Jurečka, or a member of your government, has said that it will not be in 2023, that it will be in 2024, when the automatic valuation of payments for state insured persons will start. That's why I asked about it, and I asked you for assurances. I've been assured, so I'm satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u91	So there's still an interest in the Minister's response? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u92	The time must be used, Madam President, for a person to have the opportunity to discuss this with Members. You haven't asked me seven times, various other Members have asked me, and I always try to answer the same question because I think the problem is complicated and there will be a very intense discussion about the model. I have no idea what was said in the media. I've learned things about myself in the media that I've never said, and I think it affects all of us, and that's normal, because sometimes you say something that maybe isn't completely clear, and then it can be interpreted differently. [[16.20 hours]] I think that everyone who is involved in the financing of health care, every doctor, every health professional, every economist is clear that we need to set up some understandable model that will allow long-term, sustainable funding, that it is not possible to jump up, that it is probably not the complete path. It then leads to what happens, that then there is a jumping salary increase. They can open scissors between doctors and non-medical workers, and we need to think about non-medical workers, because nurses, radiologic assistants and various other, general nurses, practical nurses and a number of gynecological and midwifes are all those who also keep our health care above water. That means all health professionals must have some clear, understandable wage increase. But most importantly, our patients must have a clear and predictable model of how to improve funding and quality of health care based on an understandable increase in health insurance payments, because we all know that the care is getting expensive. Of course, we need to save money here, we need to look for ways to save money, and I mentioned it here last time. We need to push to lower the maximum prices of drugs, the maximum prices of medical devices, because it is not possible for the money to go to God knows where and let's say some of the performances are dramatically overfunded. But the fact that we have to valorize the remuneration for state insured people is clear, obvious, is the consensus of the entire government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u93	Thank you very much for keeping time and I will read the apologies received. Mr Michael Rataj apologizes, today between 17 and 18.15 for work reasons, and Mr Anna Hubáčková, Minister of the Environment, from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons. And now it is time for Mr. Jan Lacina to intercede, who is targeted at Mr. Minister and Prime Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u94	Thank you for the floor. I dare to turn to the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan before this interpellation. As you know, we have already addressed a letter to the President of the Republic three times with Mr. First Vice-President Jiří Růžička, specifically on the last day of 2018, the last day of 2020 and the last day of 2021, asking or calling for him to push for the removal of roadblocks and ramp inspections at Prague Castle, because in our opinion, these area controls and roadblocks have long been harassing tourists, repelling the Praguens, and until recently, in our opinion, they have damaged the good name of the Police of the Czech Republic. The president's office answered us once and referred to a decision made by unspecified security forces. For a long time, we did not know which security forces they were, nor could the President of the Senate's Foreign and Security Committee, Pavel Fischer. Now, it seems that this thing has become a bit of a concern that we are heading somewhere into the Security Council of the State or one of their working committees, so maybe this time I would like to direct the call towards you, Minister of the Interior, with the fact that, of course, we realize that at this moment, the security paradigm has turned, and that, of course, we are now in a situation that may represent some kind of threat to our country. So it is not more a question of calling for you to keep this subject in mind and in public space. We know you've already called on the security forces to reconsider that position once. It is clear to me that this is probably not going to happen at this point, but to keep it in your mind world, and you would be so kind and at the moment when there is some change in this matter to inform us. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u95	Thank you, and now I ask the Minister for a response. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Congressman, you have good information because the police are evaluating the measures at the Prague Castle periodically, evaluating them regularly. I am, indeed, after taking up my duties and on the basis of numerous incentives, something from you, from Senator Růžička, but also from other citizens, to assess the security risk and the need for such measures at the Prague Castle by all possible elements of the state. The individual components really did this and came to a decision in January that it would be possible to prepare a plan to mitigate measures at the Prague Castle, that is, not completely put all measures away, but rather strengthen supervision in the inner part of the Prague Castle and limit what you are talking about, some roadblocks that really aren't very attractive and create some imaginary barrier on that historic road. But the Russian invasion of Ukraine came and at that time the security forces issued a decision based on their internal processes, where they detect the current risk and potential for the Czech Republic, that at this time there is no time for us to mitigate any security measures, and that of course the objectively existing risk at that time could be higher. So, at present, security forces have issued an opinion in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine that nothing will change at the moment, but that there will also be a further evaluation of the current security risks with the development of the Ukrainian crisis. And once again, some lightweight model has already been prepared, so it is possible that if the risk is objectively reduced, maybe the war will end, which we all would like, so at that point we can definitely go back to discussing how to take measures at Prague Castle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u97	Thank you, too. Is there still an interest in the supplementary question? It is not, i.e. we can move on to another interpellation with which Mr Petr Letocha is drawn to the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam President, dear government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I have prepared an oral interview for the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík with the topic of the National Recovery Plan projects. Minister, Minister Síkela said a few days ago that a large number of projects from the approved National Recovery Plan contained defects that could complicate their funding from European money. According to the Minister's words, the National Recovery Plan will have to be adjusted. Given that there is a considerable amount of funding to ensure activities in the fields of education, education and science that I personally consider to be a priority, I ask you to know whether projects in the strategy of the Ministry of Education and Science are also at risk. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u99	Thank you and now the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík will have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u100	Madam President, honourable Member. Implementation of the National Recovery Plan within the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports runs on a material basis without serious problems. All planned activities are realized, realizeable and still needed in terms. They will even be added by adding Ukrainian children to Czech schools, so part of the activities under the National Recovery Plan will also benefit them. The total envelope of the Ministry of Education represents CZK 23 billion. For the material presented by Minister Síkela, we provided entrances for the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education projects do not contain defects and do not need material modifications. However, some projects belong to an orange category that does not have a problem with own implementation in approved deadlines, but lack resources to cover VAT. That is what we are trying to address at the moment, and in the next few weeks, I will put forward a proposal to the government for a solution to the VAT problem. From the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Education was highlighted as one of the few resorts where implementation of the National Recovery Plan takes place without problems including communication towards the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We have set up a system of regular quarterly reporting, we process the control and control system to levels of realizers of individual components, we gradually fill the website and new information for applicants and recipients. As part of the European Commission's mission, a visit was made to Ms. CEO Céline Gauer at the elementary school of London, where I was personally present. I carried out the Director-General and presented the use of digital technology at the time of the covid, and so the European Commission was very much appreciated. [[16.30 hours]] Most of the challenges in all supported areas have already been announced. In 2021, for example, an excellent Exceles research challenge was launched in order to increase the capacity of research capacities to respond to current trends and needs of CZK 5 billion, as well as a call for universities to transform forms and content of higher education and create new study programmes for CZK 3 billion. At the same time, ad hoc standardisation funds for digitization and tutoring in public universities were provided. As part of the first payment request, we will submit projects worth more than a billion to acquire IT equipment for schools. [[Ambassador Babiš is leaving the O.R.]] Mr. Babiš is leaving now, that's a shame. The problem is the situation in the area of financing where VAT resources are missing. Given that the beneficiaries are in most cases financed from the budget of Chapter 333, they do not have own resources to cover VAT and, at the same time, at the level of the chapter itself, the appropriations are not available due to budget cuts. One-off is more than 1.5 billion crowns. The risk is mainly subcontenant 324 - Investment in the development of selected key academic centres, where there are about 1.9 billion Czech crowns missing, without which it is not possible to announce a call for the implementation of the construction of three university campuses. The preparation of projects continues by obtaining territorial decisions, building permits. The first milestone, which is the conclusion of contracts with suppliers, is already set for 2024. It is therefore not possible to delay the launch of its own procurement works. I believe we will resolve this situation in the government next month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u101	Thank you. Looks like there's an interest in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u102	Thank you. I am glad, therefore, that under the National Recovery Plan Fund, the Ministry of Education is thus prepared. Nevertheless, I will ask: I have noticed problems with VAT financing, whether there are therefore specific projects in the resort in this completely endangered, or whether there are other defects besides VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u103	Thank you for keeping time. Now I ask for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u104	There are no other flaws, as I said in the beginning. The problem is only in VAT, especially for the three university campuses - in Prague, Brno and Hradec Králové. Again, I believe that we will resolve the situation, because for the state budget and for some fundamental economic growth it is important that these projects take place, of course the effect of these buildings in the future is huge for the three universities involved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u105	Thank you. Before we proceed to the next interview, Radim Fiala apologizes from 18:00 until the end of today's meeting day for private reasons, and now between 14:30 and 18:00 for reasons of work, Mrs Alena Schillerová apologizes. It is now Mr Martin Hájek's interpellation aimed at the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, my colleagues, my interpellation is directed at Minister Petr Gazdík. Dear Minister, there is now much talk about the issue of refugee children from Ukraine and the need for their integration into the Czech school education system. I know that the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has already taken the first steps in this matter. I am thinking, in particular, of the processing of the so-called lex Ukraine for education, which we approved in the Chamber of Deputies two weeks ago and which will help schools cope with the first challenge. My question is how the integration of pupils takes place and whether it is more about the whole Ukrainian class or about integration into ordinary Czech classes. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u107	Thank you for the interview. The Minister of Education Petr Gazdík is now going to give his answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u108	Madam President, honourable Members, fellow Members, dear colleagues, I do not know if I would like to say everything if I could fit in within the four minutes of 50 seconds, because the situation is really very serious. In general, on your question, Mr. Ambassador, I would divide that aid into two parts. We are in an acute phase and I find it incredibly positive that for a month - and today it is a month since the start of Russian aggression in Ukraine - tens of thousands of Ukrainian children have been going to Czech schools for weeks. They have backgrounds. It allows their moms to have jobs. I would really like to bow down to the teachers, the principal and the founder, how they are handling the situation so far. Their creativity is indeed an active use of a very individual approach for children. In that individual approach, really, every child gets what he needs. I believe - and how I myself drive around schools on so-called unexpected ambushes and talk directly to those people without knowing that the Minister will come to see - so I find that the situation is actually very good, so far. Of course, the capacities are not endless, we will reach some limits, but it is by adopting a law called lex Ukraine - for which I would like to thank all my colleagues, because the entire Chamber of Deputies has raised their hand for him - we have made it possible for the directors to simplify the situation significantly, we have allowed them to be creative, we have allowed them not to adhere to the regulations as they were in normal times. The proposal Lex Ukraine solves the most serious problems in education. It regulates admission to pre-school, primary, secondary and higher vocational education, lays down rules of procedure where applicants cannot be accepted due to full register capacity, addresses admission to secondary schools, conservatory and higher vocational schools. For example, it allows admission to an ongoing first year of secondary school and higher vocational school, lays down specific rules on the content of education of persons and exempts incoming persons from nostrification fees. At the same time, a comprehensive amendment has been adopted which allows for an exceptional entry for children of refugees from Ukraine. It also regulates the content of education for kindergartens, special rules for universities, uniform entrance exams for secondary schools in Czech, Ukrainian or English, exemption from health requirements for increasing capacity, special rules for employing Ukrainian teachers into a homogeneous group of Ukrainian children - there is an exception to the knowledge of Czech - and so on and so on. The second thing that is necessary in this respect is an increase in the budget. There is a requirement for funding for schools to cover increased performance, adaptation coordinators, teaching Czech as a second language, methodological support for schools and teachers from the National Education Institute, foreign-language assistants to teaching from September 2022. We also create adaptation groups. For these we use so-called templates, which are well known to school directors. I believe that in the next week, or in the next week, we will announce programmes of gradual adaptation for children before entering the kindergarten and primary school, which will be for April to August 2022. In a group of 3 to 6 years the emphasis will be on psychosocial stabilization and development of speech skills, at the age of 6 to 15 years the emphasis will be on adaptation in the Czech environment, Czech teaching, preparation for entry to primary school. Among other things, it is also based on recommendations on the organisation and operation of adaptation groups. It was released on Monday 21. 3rd and sent out to all schools. The Ministry also prepares a grant teaching which can be announced in fact in turn as soon as the government releases funds to the adaptation groups. [[16.40 hours]] We are also preparing intensive language courses for young people aged 14 to 18 who would create conditions for successful entry to secondary schools. Realizers should be public universities and educational establishments. We are also preparing intensive language courses for Ukrainian educators and we are also trying to address the capacity of schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u109	Thank you. And there's no interest in a follow-up question anymore. We will therefore continue to interpel Mrs Ivana Mádlová and she will be presented to Minister Martin Baxa. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, hello, Minister, Plzeňanka health of the Plzeňan. Dear Minister, we probably agree that the state of culture also speaks of the educational level of society. I refer to you in connection with the letter from the artistic director of the National Theatre, Mr. Hansen, who wrote to the theatre staff a few weeks ago that the National Theatre will not mention in connection with the current war conflict in Ukraine a performance on the motives of the opera Petr Iljič Čajkovský Střivíček. Yes, Vladimír Putin, the current Russian President, has been waged an attack war against Ukraine for a month now, is an aggressor, and I, of course, supported the resolution of this House, which, among other things, states this fact. I condemn this war, I feel with innocent Ukrainian civilians facing a severe test. However, Minister, I never thought that, for Putinův's actions, we would punish Russian artists of the second half of the 19th century, who are so precious to the world and have nothing to do with Putinův's war aggression. Petr Iljič Čajkovský, author of world famous ballets Swan Lake, Nutcracker or Šípková růženka, is she supposed to pay for Putinův's war aggression today? Are we really going to look for politics even in the fantastic Čajkovský fairy tale that dates back to the second half of the 19th century? Will we, Minister, hand over the books of Russian classics Dostojevský, Puškin or Gogol? Are we going to destroy Russian realists' paintings? The argument of the National Theatre makes this fairy tale opera seem untrustworthy to me. The theatre states that opera itself does not have a political tendency. It's a fantastic fairy tale written according to Gogolův's story... from the lonesome dinner series at Dikaňka's. [[Your time.]] [[Your time, Madame.]] So let me ask you a question. My question towards you is simple. What is your personal position on the decision of the National Theatre, whose founder is your resort? [[Your time is up.]] Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u111	I'm really gonna ask you to keep time. And now there's room for the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u112	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, my dear fellow Member, my dear fellow Members, I would like to tell you the following about the question of the withdrawal of Čajkovský střevíček from the National Theatre Programme. The National Theatre has joined the call for support of Ukraine. For this reason, it was decided, among other things, not to perform the opera Petr Iljič Čajkovský Střivíček, which was planned to introduce in the next season. It did so mainly because the opera is planted in the time of Kateřina the veliký and in the libretto there are choir scenes that celebrate the Tsarina, highlight the invincibility of the Russian imperialist army and the all-embracing size of the Tsar Russia. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] The National Theatre procedure is completely legitimate. It is at the National Theatre that what works will or will not be staged. Here I would remind you that the constitutional order of the Czech Republic guarantees freedom of artistic creation. This includes, of course, not only the artwork itself, but also, for example, the performance of an artwork, i.e. a theatre performance. The creative team that was supposed to prepare the production felt concerned about the possible misuse of part of the content of the opera, which concerns the great Russian empire. In his view, the work could cause a lot of negative feelings in connection with the war in Ukraine. I must add that the Ministry of Culture cannot interfere in the decision-making of the National Theatre about which particular work it will present and which it will not. The applicable legal system does not allow such a procedure. The Ministry of Culture, although being the founder of the National Theatre, could only take note of the decision of the National Theatre made in the context of the Russian occupation of Ukraine. At the same time, I must stress that the decision of the National Theatre does not mean any a prior rejection of Russian artwork, the less Petr Iljič Čajkovský. For example, his ballets Swan Lake, Sleeping Beauty and Nutcracker remain on the repertoire. I add that in January 2023, when the premiere of the opera Strivíček was planned, the National Theatre will present the works of other important Russian authors: symphony number 9 of Dmitrij Šostakovič and oratorium of Igor Stravinský Oedipus Rex under the direction of conductor John Fiore. And since the MP asked me about my personal position, I just add that this decision was made by the National Theatre dramaturgists. I would like to point out that the game has not been tested and therefore no costs have been incurred. It was a proposal that was not adopted, not a decision to cancel the already finished production. The National Theatre continues to play a number of Russian authors. This is therefore not about the boycott of Russian culture, but only about the decision of the artistic workers of the National Theatre who see the problem in the above scene. After all, the Ministry of Culture was informed after the decision of the dramaturgists during my meeting with the director of the National Theatre. Personally, I would not decide that if I were on the scene of the National Theatre dramaturgists, on the other hand, I understand that decision making was not easy, and there are arguments that support it. We can imagine what the audience's reaction to the scene of the great Russian empire in relation to Ukraine could be like. In conclusion, however, I must point out that the Ministry of Culture under my direction does not interfere with the artistic decisions of the National Theatre and other contribution organizations, and I do not logically intend to do so even in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u113	Thank you, Minister, and I see an interest in the supplementary question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u114	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I confess that I had no idea that the Ministry or anyone else should interfere with the National Theatre repertoire. My point is that there really is no collective guilt against simply respected authors. And I want to ask you one more question. Do you think the Mrazík, who's usually aired every year, will also be on some blacklist, that he'll be banned?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u115	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u116	Thank you for the floor. Madame, your words about collective guilt are, in the context of what I said, actually absurd, forgive me for the expression, through Madam Vice-President, I apologize, simply because I said here that the National Theatre dramaturgists decided not to include one work and instead present seven other Russian works, so collective guilt is an absurd argument. And if you're saying that you wouldn't even think that I, or the Ministry of Culture, interfered with what's going on at the National Theatre, I'm sorry, but it's just as absurd your question as to what I think about the Mrazík. It is as if the role of the Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic, the role of a person who is at the head of the institution which establishes the National Theatre, is to perform the establishing functions which determine me by law, the establishment charter, and not to judge what they will have on their repertoire. That's why, of course, I have an answer to this question in my head, but as Minister of Culture, I can't tell you, because I would be in violation of what you yourself are saying. And then I'll deliver one more thing. Of course, this case caused some attention in the context that is currently taking place. By this decision, the National Theatre decided that it was some non-public document that came to the public, of course, it attracted attention. But I must say that in the context of how much has been done in the field of combating misinformation over the past years, how targeted and actively the Czech Republic has been exposed to Russian disinformation and that even some Members here have been involved in this, with the support of Putinův's regime, with the support of what has been happening, we must also say that there is a serious matter that must not be ignored. Yet when we say: Yes, the National Theatre has made a decision versus the fact that in this Czech Republic, in this country many Members, many political parties have actively supported the Russian Putinův regime, so let us put this on the scales and, accordingly, consider this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u117	Thank you and we will now proceed to the further interpellation of Mr Jiří Hájek. However, I will first read an apology, namely Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, between 18 and 21 o'clock today for family reasons. And now it is Mr. Jiří Hájek's turn to speak with his intervention, and to question Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u118	Good afternoon. Madam President, fellow ministers, fellow Members, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior Vítek Rakušan a question today. Dear Minister, I would like to ask how the foreign police work and control people coming from Ukraine on arrival in the Czech Republic, in other words, I would like to ask how their control process is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u119	Thank you for presenting your interpelation, which was very brief. And now to the counter, Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u120	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll try to get a brief answer to the interpellation. Of course, for those persons presenting a valid identity document, in this case a passport or, where appropriate, a ID card, a check shall be made on the authenticity of the travel document or the identity document in question. It will be verified whether the person submitting the travel document is concerned and subsequently a security clearance is carried out in the police information system. This is the standard procedure that takes place at regional assistance centres to help Ukraine. I don't know which one of you was looking at their operation, but do it because most of them - there are differences - work very effectively. We have individual departments where police officers sit next to each other, people from the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy, the Labour Office, and the process is quite rapid and effective. In the event that the person is unable to prove his identity, the biometric data of the person is collected, photographs and dractyloscopic fingerprints are taken. The biometric data is examined in both national and transnational information systems, where it is primarily determined whether it is not a person who is in the search at the time. Subsequently, the identification of the identified identity in the police information systems is also ongoing. In the case of a citizen of Ukraine, the data shall be sent to the representative office of Ukraine to verify the identity and to issue a certificate of verification of the identity. In a positive case where the consent of the Ukrainian Party and the person concerned is identified, such person is issued a special visa. One general remark that we have been saying from the outset: Of course these processes are professionalized, of course those security processes are really set up so that people who are coming to the Czech Republic are also aware of security aspects. And this is, of course, a measure aimed primarily at the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic. And the number of visas issued in the Czech Republic is absolutely record-breaking in our geographical area, we have about 230 000 issued residence visas. This is a huge success, because people who have been given a residence visa have their name, we know where they are, and ideally, of course, we know who they're staying with at that time. This is a system that works, and if we compare it with neighbouring countries that may have more refugees from Ukraine in their territory, we are record registration speed efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u121	Thank you, Minister. There is no interest in the supplementary question, and we can therefore proceed to another interpellation by Mr Vladimír Balaš, and Minister Petr Gazdík will be consulted. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to ask you about the reform of doctoral studies. It's a bit of an industry, I'm a college educator myself, and I currently run about a dozen PhD students. You, as one of your priorities, launched the necessary reform of doctoral studies at universities. I totally agree with that because I know there are a lot of problems. I would like to ask whether preparation has already begun, eventually at what stage is the drafting of an amendment to the law or whether it is linked to something that has already been prepared during the previous government, or vice versa, whether it is a completely new law. And most importantly, I would like to ask what you think this reform should bring. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u123	Thank you for the interview. And now it's time for the Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u124	Madam President, honourable Member, the Ministry is continuing to reform doctoral studies as defined in the strategic intention of the Ministry for Higher Education. Currently, an internal review procedure will take place next week. The text is currently in the paragrafo version. There will be a commentary procedure within the Ministry for the next two weeks, which we would like to send to the Interministerial Review Procedure during or at the end of April, and I believe that the whole proposal to amend the higher education law in the field of doctoral studies will appear on the agenda here in the Chamber of Deputies during May or June. The need to reform a PhD study is based on a currently less effective system that has a huge degree of failure. The reform will try to improve the quality and competitiveness of the highest degree of study and the Czech scientific environment. In the long run, the aim is to increase the success of the study, to maintain approximately the level of the number of graduates, i.e. a circus of 2 000 per year, but with a lower number of applicants accepted. Legislation is one of the main steps of reform. This is an amendment to Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions, and on the amendment of the Government's regulation on standards for accreditation in higher education. The main legislative regulations are the legal anchoring of the scholarship in the presentation form and also its amount. We are considering 1.2 times the minimum wage, so we are currently around CZK 20,000. Furthermore, we want to set a standard for trainers, greater involvement of students in practice and international cooperation as well as a final examination focused on defending the dissertation work, i.e. on the students' own creative activities. The whole intention of the amendment, including its legislative part, is regularly discussed with representatives of universities. In recent months, all adjustments to university representation, including student representatives, have been discussed. So I said the plan. Following the agreement of the Minister of Education and the Minister for Science, Research and Innovation, Mrs Langšádlová, legislative amendments will be submitted in the co-aggression of both ministries. The proposal is the result of a working group composed of representatives of all actors, and the objectives and philosophy of reform will also be presented over the summer at university forums and workshops. The funding, i.e. the amount of the scholarship, as I have already said, is based on a minimum wage and should also be subject to regular valorisation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u125	Thank you and there is an obvious interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u126	I had a question prepared, the Minister answered almost all of them before, but I have only one. I'm a graduate of doctoral studies at the Academy of Sciences, so I wanted to ask if it was also considered that the Academy of Sciences would return the opportunity to raise doctoral students as it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u127	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u128	The answer will be very brief. He's not thinking right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u129	And that concludes this interpelation. We will proceed to the next winning Mr Hubert Lang. I'd like you to present your interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, the influx of refugees from Ukraine has not yet stopped and is still increasing. In the Czech Republic, 230,000 of these persons are already registered according to your words. The Lex Act of Ukraine makes it much easier to obtain a stay on our territory, especially through the introduction of a temporary protection visa for incoming refugees. At the same time, it also allows for the choice of residence and completely free residence of persons registered under this law lex Ukraine and in other EU Member States, practically also ensures the legalization of all incoming persons. In the event of the arrival of mothers, children, old people, as you constantly mention, there is certainly a need for help. The YES movement fully supports all these actions of the current government and will always support them. I am no longer so sure whether to give the same support to incoming men who account for a certain percentage of the incoming, if I am not mistaken, who are subject to the defence duties in Ukraine. The numbers of incoming men - I hope you are aware of this - are beginning to rise gradually at virtually all registration points. A completely separate chapter is the registration of incoming foreigners who had a permanent residence in Ukraine at the time of the outbreak of the war. Since I see certain security risks for the Czech Republic in the number of incoming persons, and our voters are asking that question, I have the following questions for you. How does the government of the Czech Republic or the Ministry of the Interior stand up to the increasing number of incoming men who are subject to the defence duties in Ukraine? Secondly, how many foreigners with the status of permanent residence in Ukraine have already entered our territory, and in particular how do they carry out their own identification if the Ministry of the Interior and the police do not yet have the promised sources of documents issued by the Ukrainian authorities for persons with permanent residence and the promised lists of foreigners to whom this status has been granted in Ukraine are not yet available? Thirdly, how many persons registered in the register of undesirable persons have already been identified in the number of incoming persons and how does the Czech Republic and MV continue to work with them? And last but not least, did the Home Office ask for lists of parolee prisoners who were supposed to be involved in ongoing defense fighting in Ukraine for the promise of amnesty? And can they also appear as potential applicants for temporary protection visas in the Czech Republic? Thank you for answering the questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u131	Thank you for keeping the time and now the Minister and the first Vice-President of the Government Vít Rakušan are going to the stand with the answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u132	Thank you for asking. I will certainly deliver some statistical numbers to you in writing - that, after all, is what we call Members in some internal debate, if they want some precise numbers and data, they can ask me to present them directly here, you will get them by the end of the week, there is no problem. Your first question is a very difficult question - what we do with incoming men. Well, the gate duty applies to them, but there are many times among them men who, for some reason, cannot perform the gate duty, such are also in Ukraine, we have here, for example, cases of journalists who were on the lists directly of those after whom the Russian regime that invaded Ukraine is going, and they are people who certainly deserve special protection outside the territory of Ukraine - for example, war journalists, for example, who documented atrocities on Donbas and the like. This is, of course, a specific group. And now the big question is, I'm sure we can have a discussion here, there is some valid law of Ukraine, but we are the Czech Republic, we are watching incredible resistance at this point, and the fight of Ukrajinec against Russian odds, the huge commitment of Ukrainian men who are willing to go, even though they have no military training, and they will go through it in three days, defending their country as Europe has not done in a long time, and I dare say that most of those states in our geographical area would not have been able to do so. They show true patriotism and heroism, enlist men who are over 60 years old, and I really have no choice nor ambition to judge those who get here from Ukraine, even if they are subject to defence duties. I don't even have any legislative support for this. I have also dealt with the topic with the Ukrainian ambassador, of course Ukraine wishes that as many of its men remain in Ukraine - by the way, a small number of Ukrajinec have left the Czech Republic and gone to fight for their country - but really, who are we to judge these men? Who are we to say, you have to go back? What kind of legal title do we have to send back to Ukraine? They come here, they ask for temporary protection, and we follow the legal order of the Czech Republic, not the law of Ukraine, and we can think what we want. These people are undergoing routine security screenings like everyone else, identified as I explained in the previous interpelation, but we're not even at those regional aid centres to help Ukraine by some moral arbiter who might still be able to interrogate them in the rapid process and say, "What are you doing here, you're supposed to fight for your country?" And I wouldn't even dare -- maybe if thousands and tens of thousands of men were running away from Ukraine, that they didn't want to fight for their country, but I see men who were often miserable, often those who were already on that front and left it and perhaps didn't want to fight anymore, there are injuries among them, who have healed and come here to the Czech Republic, and I will not judge them. I don't have the ambition, I'm not doing it. I support Ukraine, I support mostly the women and children that are here, and I will not exclude men from this. Firstly, because I am not ethically entitled to this, I or anyone at KACPU, NACPU and our registration centers, and secondly, because I do not really have any legal titles of the Czech Republic to send these people who are fleeing the war - affected country back to the country where there is war. Whether or not we requested data on the prisoners released - I don't know. I don't know, I also need to find out if the Czech police have this information, and I will also give it to you in summary of what you must have asked, but I point out that the Czech police, the foreign police, are doing their utmost to ensure the safety of the citizens of the Czech Republic. There are still some 75 percent of women in the adult population, and we are moving, if I'm not mistaken, in some 46 percent of the children of all arrivals. We are here primarily protecting Ukrainian women and children from Putinův's atrocities and I am proud of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u133	I thank the Minister and now, with an additional question, the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u134	Thank you. I was expecting something like this, of course, I know you can't tell me the data from the spot here, I'm glad to get them by Friday. I would like to tell you that despite the constant repetition that they are women, children, old people - yes, I supported that here too, it's all okay - but if we split it up, we take out the children, we take out the old people, we take out the mothers, so we're still counting to some number of 15,000 to 20,000 men. And believe that we also have information from the registration points where those police officers are unhappy about registering these men, and some really by some signs, external, of course, which doesn't have to say anything completely, they'll probably have some criminally faulty past, and yet, according to the Lex Ukraine, they'll be staying here in our territory, they'll get a visa for temporary protection for intruders. I fully understand that you can't collect these men and return them to a place of battle when they don't want to fight, that I understand that, too... [[Your time. Your time for the follow-up question is up.]] ...but it's true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u135	With the Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u136	But, Mr. Ambassador, we're really discussing this, we've been discussing it with each other in committee, here in plenary, we're talking about it in your interpelration, and I'm not denying it. I never said that only those people we wish would come here to the Czech Republic. But I'm stating the facts, and they're indisputable. I give the percentage facts of the incoming, I say that almost half of the population are children who I don't see as a security risk, and so I say that in the total amount of time when we have people that we would have at the moment if there was no war in Ukraine, the war in Ukraine, they didn't want it here, so precisely because there is a limited number of them, we are aware of them, we can take such security measures to ensure the safety of people in the Czech Republic, and, of course, you as a person who has moved in the field, you know that, of course, if the police have an overview of faulty persons, they can handle it quite well. But what's the solution? I keep asking what the solution is - we will certainly get to it on the committee - the solution when there is a war in Ukraine, when Putin is going crazy and bombing cities, so at that point we are providing humanitarian asylum. I'm glad that primarily women and children, there are definitely men, there are old men, there are completely harmless men, and simply according to the simple distribution of society, we'll find individuals that we wouldn't want here, and we have to keep an eye on them. But I don't see any other solution, I'm not sending these people back to war.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u137	I thank the Minister for his reply. And now, with another interview, Mr Josef Kott will present it to Minister Zdeněk Nekula, who is excused. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u138	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. That's right. My intervention is for the absent Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nekula. The security situation in Europe, but also worldwide, has changed fundamentally over the last few weeks. In addition to the defence of the European Union and individual Member States, food and energy security must also be targeted. The war in Ukraine has already shown itself and will, in my view, continue to show an extreme rise in the prices of certain agricultural commodities, and above all, the enormous increase in agricultural input prices such as fertilisers, fuels, energy, feed and others. This will inevitably mean a failure of part of the production or an increase in its price, especially if we depend on imports. Production farmers, who provide most of the raw materials for food production in this country, are in time to warn against the impending significant increase in food prices and the threat to food safety in the Czech Republic. On Monday, the European Council of Agriculture approved EUR 11 million, which is CZK 270 million, for the Czech Republic from the European Commission's reserve for commodities in which the country is not self-sufficient. My question is therefore very simple: is the Ministry prepared to co-finance at the maximum possible amount, which is twice as much as CZK 540 million, which means supporting sensitive commodities? And if so, which should be the case in particular? And yet I will not forgive myself: the positive interpelations by the Coalition Members - I am missing only here: Minister, how do you do it so well, for which we were often criticized here in the last parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u139	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister for Agriculture, who is duly excused, will reply to it in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, with another interview, Mrs Barbora Urbanová is ready to present her to Minister Ivan Bartoš. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u140	Dear Minister, I would like to ask because I happened to be visiting municipalities affected by a tornado last year, i.e. in South Moravia, and of course because I met a few people there, I learned about a number of people who unfortunately did not have the opportunity to ask for any help, some compensation, or fell through a so-called sieve. That is why I would like to ask you if there has been any movement in this matter at your department? I have information that many people have originally fallen through the network of aid programmes, and I would therefore like to know if you intend to remedy this situation. And since my colleague here was setting himself up against interpelling coalition ministers, that's why I was so brief. I won't have a follow-up question and I'll ask you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u141	Thank you for your question, for your interview, and to the counter will come to answer the Minister and Vice Prime Minister for the digitalisation of Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u142	Thank you for asking. I could surprise everyone now, because I will commend the initiative of the previous government, because a number of programs to help municipalities that were hit by a tornado were launched last year. Specifically, it was two programs - the first one aimed at individuals, people who lost a family home, for example. That's where the amount was set aside, if I'm not mistaken, 1.8 billion - maybe something about it. There it is pumped - absorption capacity, respectively companies that can reconstruct the houses, even the season, which was winter, which does not completely wish to be reconstructed, so there SFPI is preparing individual applications, it is being built. It is not finished yet, but within capacity it continues. The second program, which was directed from the MMR, actually led to the help of municipalities and regions to reconstruct their individual assets, which were affected by it. We were in Moravia together with the Prime Minister, Minister Síkela, with the Minister of the Environment. The request from the municipalities was for an extension of the deadline for the submission of applications, which we accepted. That's CZK 1.3 billion. At the same time, there was a requirement to include these, say, other works, such as repairing damaged roads during reconstruction, where we also agreed that this could be included in individual costs and would not exceed 1.3 billion. And then there's the question you were aiming at. Yes, indeed, people have fallen through a sieve. It's also a media-famous family of Sečkář who have a pub there. It's a moment when these people weren't living in an object that was theirs, and someone else was doing business there. We have also talked to Minister Síkela on this subject, and according to my information, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has built a special programme - and I hope that this continues - which will aim precisely at people who have not even fit into Group A, which is helping to own property for specific people, or Group B, which was aimed at municipal and regional property. So the money is pumping in there, we're trying to accommodate it, and the current state of affairs, whether money has already been provided to people who have so-called a sieve of these two programs, I don't have, but I can find out this information and I can deliver it soon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u143	Thank you. It was announced that there was no interest in the supplementary question. It is now Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská's turn to interview the duly excused Minister of Justice, Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u144	Hello or good evening, Madam President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Minister is not here, but I will read my interpellation. My intervention is directed at the Minister on the issue of combating corruption. Corruption or how well-known the abuse of public authority for private purposes is a big issue that has a major impact on the whole of society. First, it reduces confidence in state institutions, but second, it also reduces trust in human beings. It has a negative impact on the economy, or economic growth, not to mention the impact on political participation, when people's interest in corruption is falling at all politically, as they may believe that their involvement, whether by voting in elections, will not change at all. Each year, the world's largest corruption organization sets up a so-called corruption perception index, which is an aggregate of a number of indicators by which perceived corruption can be measured. According to the latest index of 2021, we received a value of 54 out of 100. The values of such corruption indices cannot be neglected. What concerns me, however, is not only the values of corruption indices, but also the government's position on this issue. In the government's programming statement, we will find only three references to corruption to be transformed into a single public record of subsidies, clicking budgets to the level of invoices while maintaining the principles of business secrecy or amendment to the conflict of interest law and so on. So my questions are in the sense of why the government's fight against corruption is so neglected, whether programmed or organized, at the Ministry of Justice... [[Your time.]] ...and what other steps does the government intend to take in it, if any?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u145	Thank you. With regard to the next order, Mr Zdeněk Kettner is next to be interviewed and will present it to the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u146	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his words that have been said here, because I do not like the undisciplined, as he has said, that we need to find a compromise between memorizing and searching for information on the Internet, which I acknowledge, and I will sign under it, and I will totally support it. I'd like to thank you for that. The first question concerns the revision of the RVP. I must say that there has been a so-called small revision, which still goes to the mercy of the former Minister, with which the current Minister can hardly do anything backwards, which has gone through, if I say so, de facto undercover, because the general education public has not had much opportunity to engage in any way. But now comes the so-called big revision. I suppose the commentary procedure - the public one - will also be happy to be used by the cantors, who are often also parents. [[17.20 hours]] I just have a little bit of a problem with the timing of the current situation where education, teachers, directors are busy dealing with Ukrainian children. So my first question is whether it would be worthwhile, given that the deadline is to be shifted in some way in 2025, to give teachers the opportunity to comment on this in a situation where the situation calms down a little bit, so that we do not rush the situation unnecessarily, because after all we are dealing with a concept for a longer period. Well, if it's worth considering. And the other thing. The 100 000 Ukrainian children's circus will be allocated 17 billion, which is actually twice as much as it is for ordinary Czech children, which I understand - the petitioners and so on. So I want to ask you what the increased finances are going to be, if the Minister can answer me. And the second thing, given that these finances weren't even budgeted, if he's got any preliminary idea where we're going to take the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u147	Thank you for your time and now with your answer, Minister of Education Petr Gazdík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u148	The Minister of Finance, Mr President, has already raised my eyebrows significantly before I begin to answer to you. [[With laughter.]] Now, about your questions. As for the RVP, please separate two things from each other, these are the RVP frameworks and the RVP's own content. As far as frames are concerned, there's a deadline for the end of April at the moment, but there's only the general frames we're talking about. It's not really the actual content of history, geography, mathematics, we'll have more than a year for that. Within these frameworks, as I mentioned here, you will find a link on the relevant pages - whoever has a month to comment on these frameworks. These will then be evaluated, followed by the National Education Institute will be selected. And everyone, even you, can sign up for the tender, any subject you want. And on the basis of the National Educational Institute's tender, you will be assigned to a group that will change a specific subject and address the content of a specific subject, about a year later. But I understand, if necessary, I'm going to monitor how these individual groups are going to evolve, I'm going to talk to them. And besides, I want to set up a so-called supervisory ministerial committee where there should be no teachers, where there should already be practitioners, major economists, major sociologists, who would look at the outcome a little differently from what we teachers are looking at. Based on the evaluation of the supervision committee, the framework education programmes should only be presented to the public and will be conducted through public or political discussions. I'm sure the members of the school committee will have that opportunity. This whole thing will take about a year, which is enough time for me. But I'm saying again - and I've already said it publicly - more important to me is not quantity, if it's in ten months or fourteen, quality is more important to me, so I'll keep an eye on it. I consider this to be the most important thing that Czech education needs right now, and that is why I want to pay special attention to this, which is why we have already started this now, when frankly, at the Ministry, we have a little different problems with Ukrainian children. And that was your second question. The 17 billion, to explain it, is the amount when I take 125 000 children, for which it seems that they could be added to Czech schools, and by ratio I will find out what the Ministry of Education budget is and what it might cost to raise 125 000 children. That amount doesn't have to be that way, it's really just an estimate that I said, because these kids may not be here all the time, or there may be a lot more of them, they can apply to schools the next day, or they can sign up in 90 days, as the law says, the war can end tomorrow, it can end in five years. No one has an answer to these questions now, so let's say the 17 billion is the maximum framework. What we really need now - and we have divided it into two parts, the first part is now for this school year, and these are matters of increasing the budget or increasing the so-called regional reserves. Now at the end of March, the directors will have fourteen days to recalculate the state of pupils and teachers, which we will publish in mid-April, how many children have actually increased, and under the ordinary school law, there will be an increase in the funds from the regional reserves that we will supplement. The second thing is so-called templates for adaptation groups and intensive language courses. That is a total of about CZK 2.8 billion, and we are now discussing that amount with the Ministry of Finance, and we will do something about it next week. I believe that as soon as possible we'll run the adaptation courses, the adaptation groups and the templates on them. We're ready, we're looking for resources, we're discussing the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u149	Thank you. There is no interest in the supplementary question, thank you too. I will now give the floor to Mr Karel Turečk, who, in his interpellation, turns to the duly excused Minister Zdeněk Nekula. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u150	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to address Mr Nekula, Mr Nekula, here absent again, with a question on the issue of rising food prices. This year, of course, thanks to the war in Ukraine, we can expect a record increase in food prices. The growth in food prices will continue throughout the year, when food is also typical that changes have some inertia, therefore the current leaps in fuel prices, the energies will be fully reflected in the second to third quarter of this year. Oils, fats, fruit and vegetables, eggs, bakery products and flour and, of course, meat are expected to be the most expensive. Overall, it has to be assumed that it will not be units of percent, but tens of percent. The situation will be very unpleasant, it will have an impact on all citizens, and it will have a catastrophic impact on certain households. We need to realise that we will face an unprecedented social problem. That is why I want to ask if the Ministry is aware of this serious fact, and at the same time I want to ask what steps and instruments the Ministry of Agriculture will mitigate these effects. In such a situation, any sensible government would not be afraid to rely on the production potential of domestic agriculture, which is far from exhausted in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, Petr Fiala's government is going in the opposite direction and is openly saying that it is not interested in producing our farmers and food self-sufficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u151	Thank you for the interview, you will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. Mrs Alena Schillerová has been interviewed further. She apologized, so she's pulling this interpellation. Followed by Mr Martin Kukla with his intervention on the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u152	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to ask you how your government is prepared to help municipalities and regions as a result of the collapse of Sberbank Bank. Many municipalities and regions are left with a lot of funds that are not available to them at the moment. It causes a lot of problems for the people and the regions. In a letter I read, you write that you will solve these problems individually. I have one particular example here, and this is the region of Vysočina, which is stranded there about CZK 2.7 billion - 2.4 billion to the region and 300 million to the contribution organizations, which is a total of 50 percent of the tax revenue of the Vysočina Region, which is very important from my point of view and the region of Vysočina will have a problem. Yesterday's statement, when you were talking about the attorneys who were left with the money, the particular barracks, you didn't talk very well about them. I would like to ask you how your government is prepared to help in this particular example. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u153	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with the answer, Mr. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will come to the counter. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u154	Thank you for the floor. I think I just described the case exactly yesterday. So let's see if we can narrow down the numbers. A lot of communities, a lot of money, I have specific numbers. In my opinion, this concerns 180 municipalities of five regions, the total amount of non-available money at this time is CZK 5 billion. I've been through a meeting with the Union of Towns and Villages today from about 15 to 16 o'clock. We have fully agreed with President Lukl and the other members of his delegation. The negotiations were calm, factual, constructive. The first thing I offered and the Union of Towns and Communities accepted and welcomed that we would send the municipalities and regions concerned in May the entire tranche of money for the transferred performance of the state administration by the end of the year so that we could improve their cash flow, which means it will not go as usual, but they will receive all the money in May until the end of the year. On the other, on which we agreed to proceed individually, each community will be dealt with separately. There are several possibilities. Firstly, the involvement of the National Development Bank, this is the former Czech Moravian Guarantee Bank, it is a bank fully in the hands of the state. There are three basically equal shareholders - the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I see no problem with this bank lending money to municipalities under reasonable conditions to bridge the difficult times. Secondly, I called on the Union of Towns and Communities, and then Mr President and I called on when we had a short briefing with journalists, representatives of the municipalities and regions concerned, so that they would not use the problem, if possible, in a political struggle between the ruling majority and the minority. This year there are municipal elections, it may well be that those who are in opposition today will have a majority in the city and vice versa. The problem will not be solved in municipal elections. It won't! It is unrealistic to expect that the money will be released by the end of October of this year. I think it's the right procedure, because it's not about looking for the culprits right now, but it's about finding a solution. From next week, a contact person at the Ministry of Finance will be available, we will be realistically judging each community separately, because it is something different, we will simply assess the amount of non-available money due to the volume of the annual budget. This is what I think is a reasonable criterion, and I believe that we will be able to do so so as not to reduce investment, especially where there is multi-source financing. Where investment is only on the part of municipalities, it is likely that some of these investments will be postponed, but unfortunately there is nothing that can be done about it. So I say, we have agreed with the delegation of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, there is no contradiction at this time. We'll approach him calmly. We will not publish a list of these municipalities on the microphone or elsewhere, so that there is no need to panic or worry about those citizens. The solution is not for the benefit of the mayor and the majority, nor the opposition and minorities. It is for the benefit of citizens who live in those municipalities, towns or regions. The fact that I have critical remarks that some of these municipalities, in my opinion, had quite unreasonably money in one banking institution, and now I won't say in which, I consider it risky. I have the experience of municipal policy and I think it is much better - and the vast majority of cities and municipalities have their means in multiple banks. But that's just what happened, I just can't forgive the comment when you ask my opinion. But neither the parliament nor the government are supposed to advise the authorities. They have the right from the Constitution to make their own decisions. However, we can certainly comment on this, as quite rightly the authorities often comment on the decision of the government or Parliament. The last thing I would say about it is that only three municipalities have fulfilled their legal obligations to have the deposit insured. They already got the money. So the 180 plus five regions remain, and it has to be said that there is a difference, for example, if one large region has 150 million crowns and has tens of billions of income there, so it is unpleasant, but it is just a percentage of little. That is why we have chosen an individual approach and will assess the amount of non-available money given the annual revenues of the municipality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u155	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u156	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I agree that risk diversification has certainly been underestimated, but I have asked for a specific example, which is the Region of Vysočina, 2.7 billion crowns at this time of stranded funds. And the transferred performance of the state administration for the Vysočina Region is some little over 100 million crowns, so that will certainly not solve the problem. And I didn't know the answer from you how to solve this particular example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u157	The Minister is interested in responding, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u158	So you just wouldn't listen to me. I told you this would be handled individually. Of course, I know about the problem of the Highlands. Remember the statement of the former governor: "I was advised by the boys at the castle. I don't understand, so I put the money there." I'm just quoting. I'm not adding anything. I said that we would try through the National Development Bank to get these affected municipalities and regions a loan from the National Development Bank. Vysočina county doesn't need 2.7 billion this year. I've been in quite a lot of contact with Mr. Governor, we've been dealing with this since day one, but it's not things that are supposed to be handled over the microphone, I'm pretty sure. We know about the problem, the ratio I was talking about, the ratio of unavailable money and the annual budget, is really significant, and that's why we're going to treat it this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u159	Thank you and we will proceed to another interview by Mrs Andrea Babišová to the duly excused Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u160	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, fellow ministers, honourable colleagues, I would like to interpel the Minister Jurečka on the issue of excluded localities. I come from the Moravian-Silesian Region, which is one of the regions that is most affected by this issue, further it is the Ústecký Region and the Karlovarský Region. I would like to ask the Minister how they will deal with the division of inhabitants in these locations during the refugee crisis. At this point, we have clear indications that there are, of course, a large number of Ukrainian refugees flowing into these locations, and the owners of the existing buildings that are standing in these locations are, of course, taking precedence in quotation marks over existing clients and residents of their own homes and buildings. The risks to us from this are quite clear. Above all, we are at risk of a relatively large migration of these residents from excluded localities, who will remain without residence. Of course, in other regions, towns and villages, they have extended families, so, of course, they will move in with their families and we are threatened with relatively large fluctuations in the population. We're waiting for other problems to come to this. Apart from homelessness, we expect an increase in crime, because, of course, existing citizens in these locations will be reduced by the standard of living they are staying in at the moment. So I ask or intersect the Minister how the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is prepared to address issues of excluded localities, the migration of the current population and the placement of Ukrainian refugees in these locations. [[Your time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u161	Thank you, too. I'll just say that you'll get your answer in writing within 30 days. And I will announce that the Minister of Health is still apologizing, from 17 a.m. to the end of the day, for work reasons. And now the interview of Mrs Jarmila Levko is followed, namely by the Minister Petr Gazdík. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u162	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, in recent weeks, namely since an armed conflict broke out in Ukraine, we have witnessed a huge and unexpected influx of people fleeing the war, and a large part of these people are children or young people of study age, and they should of course be educated. Yes, we have adopted a law here that will speed up their integration into Czech schools, which will help increase capacity and so on. But I believe that the key problem is the language barrier. It simply cannot be done without a partial knowledge of Czech. [[17.40 hours]] And so I ask you, Minister, what the specific Ministry of Education does and does for the language preparation of children and young people from Ukraine. Thank you for your answer. I believe that I am interested not only in me, but also in my fellow teachers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u163	Thank you, Madame. The Minister of Education Petr Gazdík will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u164	Madam President, when I was in a school in the Ukrainian group last week, a 12-year-old boy called me: How are you doing and what are you doing? For being in the Czech Republic for three days, that was a decent performance. The activity of the Ministry of Education to integrate Ukrainian citizens - a system of free language preparation of foreigners will be fully used, which, of course, we need to increase, because we count its use to a much larger extent. Other possible aid specifically aimed at Ukrainian citizens is currently being prepared within the internal materials of the Ministry of Education. I've been talking about some templates that we're going to decide next week in the government, I believe it, and we're going to write them down right now. Language preparation will also be a part of them. These will be activities beyond the support of foreigners in general, in the order of hundreds of millions up to billions of crowns, which will be prepared for this. And now for the split. I'll split it by age category. Language support for foreigners in pre-school education: kindergarten schools provide children with insufficient knowledge of Czech language support in the course of normal activities, in which children interact with teachers naturally during their stay in kindergarten. Language training is part of pre-school education in a compulsory pre-school year. It is focused on a smooth transition to primary school. Kindergartens with a larger representation of foreigners in compulsory pre-school education will create groups of between four and eight foreigners for targeted language training in the Czech language and will be provided within one hour per week. Language support in basic education: there is free preparation for inclusion in the basic education of foreigners in schools managed by local authorities and designated by the Regional Authority. The course takes place in the district designated by the school in a presentation or distance form. Teaching takes place in groups of between two and ten pupils in the morning at the time of regular teaching or, where appropriate, in the afternoon. Strangers from undetermined schools, mostly private and church, can attend teaching in the county designated school. The scope of language training shall be at least 100 hours, up to a maximum of 200 hours for a maximum of 10 months. Language support in secondary education: we are currently preparing double support. Firstly, intensive Czech language courses that would offer both secondary schools and other institutions involved in teaching Czech or foreign languages. These intensive courses would be in the range of at least 80 hours, a maximum of 320 hours, a maximum of four teaching hours a day, a minimum of one teaching hour a day and a minimum of three days a week. The aim of these courses would be to reach level A2 at 320 hours so that Ukrainian pupils receive a good language basis that they can develop and enable them to understand basic information at school, or to ask questions about unknown ones. The second type of support should be intended for pupils after taking up secondary school, when it is planned that the pupil should be able to receive 200 hours of language support, with the fact that this language support can be organised during teaching at the school itself. In case of fewer foreigners in one school, teaching could be organised remotely or in cooperation with other schools. Of course, it depends on the particular number of foreigners who arrive in the Czech Republic. I consider the most pleasant form of teaching Czech language to be different language camps and courses in the summer, where we want to write this possibility also for non-profit organizations and other subjects. For me, I would like Ukrainian children to spend the summer at the Boy Scout's Camp with the language teaching of Czech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u165	Thank you for your answer. There's no interest in a follow-up question, so another... Is it? So I misinterpreted the wave. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u166	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. You've even talked about a big bunch of money, but I'm still wondering if we're actually gonna have people, lecturers, if students or Ukrajinec would be involved, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u167	Thank you. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u168	Once again, the Minister of Finance raised his eyebrows significantly when you were talking about a large amount of money, but as far as people are concerned, yes, in schools they are ready for this. I constantly face questions about whether teachers of Czech and teachers of other languages can be involved, who, of course, can speak Czech. At present, I do not see the problem at this point, I see the problem at present rather in the finances, but I believe that we will agree with the government in the near future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u169	Thank you and Mr Kamal Farhan, who is targeted at Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, will now give his interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u170	Mr Minister, Madam President. The Minister for Health said that the payment for state insured persons in 2023 will be in corridor 1 850 CZK to 1 980 CZK per month for insured persons. Why this interpellation to the Minister of Finance? Fourteen days ago, he said at a meeting I attended at the Ministry of Health that he would present a specific amount after consulting the Minister of Finance. I'm assuming there's been an agreement in the last two weeks. Time is running out. In the next week, there should be documentation from the analytical committee, and in the next week, segments with health insurance companies will start negotiating on health care payments. At this point, there is no information on the amount of payments, the amount of specific payment for state insured persons for the following year, and the conciliation procedure is already under way. Can you please specify how much this payment will be? And have you agreed on any amount with the Minister of Health? And the second question: Are you aware that it is not possible to conduct meaningful negotiations between health care providers and health insurance companies for next year without determining the amount of this amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u171	Thank you and now the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u172	First, the second question. Yes, I am aware of that, but I do not think if we have any interval, that this is not a meaningful debate. We have estimates of the amount of health care provided, we have estimates of the number of state insured people, we have estimates of how much will be paid for health insurance from companies and employees. That's the crucial data. The amount is interesting, but much more important is the valorisation mechanism that we are discussing. At this point, we have two proposals, one based on inflation, and the other on average wages. We are debating to find a mechanism that is predictable and reasonable in the next three years, not just next year. I'm sorry, but in the last 14 days - and I think you'll understand, given the agenda that's with the refugee wave, and everything about the war in Ukraine, the negotiations continue, not that it's worth it, but so far the final agreement isn't. And I just want to say that it isn't just the agreement of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health that matters, but it will be decided by the government or the House. I know that you have announced that you will be building up a bill to return the payment for state policy holders to the level of 2021, and I fully respect that, but in agreement with the Minister, we would like to read the valorisation mechanism before reading it again. I think it would make the debate easier, maybe even shorter, and maybe it would bring the desired certainty not only for health insurance companies, health care providers, but also some trust or fundamental trust between the government and the opposition, because if we can load the mechanism into the law and the mechanism - we will certainly discuss it in the House, then I think it might be easier to get the law in both chambers of our Parliament. And we really want to load it between first and second readings. That doesn't mean that if we have a job-level proposal ready, we'll be waiting for the first reading to end. I think these negotiations can begin immediately, among other things, because of the conciliation procedure. But I don't think if the proposal was made on a working level, the House would change it in some dramatic way. [[17.50 hours]] We also closely monitor the development of health insurance payments, not state insurance, which, of course, we can calculate. But I expect from the private sector next week, when it gets the results back for the end of the year, there's no problem with us publishing balances on health insurance accounts. At the end of January it was 56 billion, at the end of February it was 60 billion. I'm just saying, I'm not getting anything out of this. I just think it's good to watch it on a monthly basis if there's any dramatic spike, so that we can respond to it in time. At this point - I still have time, I'm sorry - at this point we have a lot of visas issued and we all know you know this very well, the moment the visa is issued, they are automatically state insured people. At this point, this assumes an increased payment for state insured persons if we were to pay about CZK 4.5 billion for them by the end of this year. It's a mandatorial expense, so we don't have to argue about it, that's what it is. On the other hand, the estimate from the largest health insurance company, that's the VZP, because these clients are automatically there, estimates the maximum - but let's take that as information at this time, so let's not take it that it's somehow justified, verified by eight analyses - that the care that might have been spent around 5 billion. So the difference so far looks like about 500 million. Since the total amount of health insurance plans is 440 billion, this is certainly not an amount that threatens the quality and scope of healthcare provided in any way. I would like to say so much about this and welcome the debate once we have a working proposal on the valorisation formula, of course, with the opposition, because it would be very good if the valorisation formula, if it were created to be stable, so that it would not be so that every government changes it in some fundamental way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u173	Thank you. There is an interest in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u174	I understand. I didn't get the number, on the other hand, I understand the valorisation mechanism. I agree with inflation, taking a minimum wage, for example, for something. From my point of view, it should still be procyclical. And here I just wanted to - the minister here today said and quote during the intercessions, which I wrote to myself, which I do not want to say the word pleased me, but if it were: This remuneration will not be higher - as in the valorisation mechanism - will be comparable to the payment paid by those who take minimum wage. Thank you. I don't have another question, just because I didn't know the specific number, because then it was, at that point, the payment for the state insurance policy would be higher than it was in the range he mentioned 14 days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u175	Do I understand and perceive that the Minister does not want to respond? Okay, it's settled. And perhaps the last interpelation of this day will be given by Mr Radek Koten and is for Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u176	Thank you, Madam President, Mr Minister. I would like to ask why the government is promoting an emergency when, in the last parliamentary term, as part of the opposition, it has always been against an emergency? And since I'm being phoned and e-mailed and texted by various police officers, I actually understand it a little bit now, because police officers in an emergency state serve a hundred or more hours for free, actually, on the altar of the homeland. So instead of being at home with their family, they serve for those cops who aren't in the choir yet, because the Police of the Czech Republic, as such, has the base of police officers. Other police officers serve first as reinforcements to Slovak colleagues, where the situation with the migration crisis is somewhat different, and other police officers who remain in the Czech Republic must, of course, serve for them. Furthermore, I would like to ask whether restricting the freedoms and freedoms of citizens and censorship, which is spreading here in some way, blocking various websites, whether it is in accordance with the law, whether it is decided by the court or whether it is solely at the discretion of the government, its representatives, or whether it is merely at the request of the government, private entity NIC.cz [[correct CZ.NIC]] , and whether the emergency situation is not simply to increase the penalty in an emergency state, and whether there is a threat to the Czech Republic of infiltration of some elements from Ukraine. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u177	And now I ask Minister Vít Rakušan for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u178	Those two minutes are murderous. I, through Madam Vice-President, understand you, Mr Koten, because I have also often been interpelling as a Member, and in this haste I have not really understood your last three questions or have become one. I don't know what you're doing with the infiltration. I thought you were following up on the Web ban, and I got a little lost in why it should lead to infiltrating some dangerous elements. But you'll have one more minute to explain it to me, and you'll certainly use it rationally, through the Vice-President. First, the emergency situation itself was, from our point of view, being the former opposition many times overused, declared for a long time. Various measures have been applied that we lacked logic for. And yes, as you said, through Madam President, these measures have significantly reduced the lives of people in the Czech Republic in many ways. Prohibition of travel between districts, curfew after twenty-first hour, shortening operating hours of various facilities, services in the Czech Republic and so on. And I would, if I may - you do not have to answer me - that is what I am here for - but if I may ask you, through Madam President, if you could tell me what restrictions you, as a citizen of the Czech Republic, are now feeling in a state of emergency. You don't have to answer, it can only be a rhetorical question, but of course I'm very interested in the answer. Another thing, Mr colleague, through Madam President. The emergency situation allows us to apply the measures we need to deal with the current crisis. We need them. We need fast supply, for example, of the State's material reserves. We need a quick organization of humanitarian aid. We need rapid government measures that respond to the needs of cities, municipalities and regions in the Czech Republic. This is a completely objective need, which will be confirmed by local political elites. And I understand that you personally do not have such experience with crisis management at local level, but it really has a lot to deal with now and quite quickly. Secondly, I would like to say that the current emergency situation was planned as an instrument of crisis management in 2014 in the large-scale migration wave type plan, which was divided into four categories. One of them was orange, red, black. From red, black, it was expected to be declared an emergency, and the red and black was somewhere around 20,000 migrants a month. We have nearly 300,000 a month. Thus, we follow the manner in which the crisis management is based on the type of plans and procedures defined by the experts. And I'm sure the experts have defined them well. One important thing, and I hope to make you happy, through Madam President. All overtime hours of police officers are recorded in the system, and Minister Stanjura and I will come up with a rapid amendment, which we want to approve in a legislative emergency, in an emergency situation for all armed forces to be reimbursed overtime hours. The government discussed it yesterday. We lead - although not paid now - after my agreement with Deputy Police President Vondrášek all overtime hours in the register and those overtime hours will be paid first in the form of special rewards, secondly, after a change of legislation, which we want to come up with in a fast succession, even in an emergency state. I hope this is positive information and a system solution for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u179	Thank you, Minister. You have time for a very quick follow-up question, I'll have to stop you at 6:00. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u180	Thank you for your answer. Of course, it's good news for the cops that the overtime will be paid off, including the firemen, including the police, and that's where my question was headed. And as for those criminal elements that could be directed here, it was meant to be that unfortunately, given that in Ukraine people were also released from prisons and they could reach weapons, that's where my question was that police officers could prevent any weapons that were distributed to them in Ukraine from being used in the Czech Republic by these elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u181	Unfortunately, it's no longer possible to react. The time for interpelation is up. And I am also saying goodbye to this and handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u182	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We'll continue with the next points. Before we do so and start discussing so-called proposals from the opposition window, I will read an apology. As of today's meeting, Mr Andrej Babiš apologizes for business reasons starting at 18:00 and, on the contrary, Mr Rais, who is attending the meeting, cancels his apology. Before we proceed to the individual points, President Okamura asked me to speak with priority rights. So, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to comment here on the latest findings regarding the STAN movement and the MEP and Vice-President of the STAN movement Stanislav Polčák, because I had my assistant checked in with me, because how many times Mr Polčák was behind me, and I have witnesses to this, specifically my House assistant - I thought he was with me twice, and he was with me three times. I have witnesses. And now I hear he charges CZK 47,000 an hour for a meeting with the MPs. So Stanislav Polčák lobbied for me three times for the law for three hours, and he apparently charged CZK 140,000 of public money to cities and municipalities for a meeting with me? Is that even possible? He's made a fool of us here. And he didn't say anything. He asked me to meet him and he wants to talk about the law, and then we find out here, we have reports... [[He's pointing.]] ...it's all over the Internet and on the List. And it is proven that it also charges for the meeting with the SPD Members because, among other things, it writes here - but it was not a meeting with me, it was a meeting with another of our Members - that the meeting in the Chamber of Deputies with Members other than the KSČM, which means the SPD, it also charges an hour for 47 000. Well, he's an incredible political thug! That's normal... the STAN movement, they're such political con men, it's like nothing. That's why I'm asking again - and it's a shame that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and Chairman have left now. I want to demand that list again...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u184	Ambassador, I will interrupt you and ask my colleagues to be quiet, and those who are not interested in the speech of the Member, if necessary, to go to the foyer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u185	Therefore, I would like again to call on the representatives of the STAN movement and Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the Vice Prime Minister and Interior Minister, President STAN Vít Rakušan to present a list of all the orders of their Vice-President STAN - at that time Vice-President STAN - and MEP Stanislav Polčák, all the public money contracts, because I would like to know if they charged for the meeting with me. These reports may be altered differently, of course, but I think that other opponents who were visited by Mr Polčák would also like to know and see the diaries if Mr Polčák charged for a meeting with them for 47,000 an hour, for example. But the point is, it really needs to be checked out, because the political business project of the STAN movement, really, is beyond everything. I think they should leave the government because it's one scandal after another. I'm gonna say two more short things about this. Several people have already warned me that for my speeches today, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, the STAN movement and government officials will try to criminalize me. So I'm saying it here on the microphone: they're gonna try to criminalize me, dehonestrate me, turn journalists against me because I'm just uncomfortable. And I'm just asking on behalf of our constituents, I didn't cause these cases. So I'm saying this in advance, and I'm saying it here on the microphone so everyone can hear it because these threats - and you know that, and there's a number of witnesses that Prime Minister Petr Fiala told me right in my face the day before yesterday, and this is where our entire MP club and some of the members of the club heard it, so he told me he was gonna give it back to me. And I asked him how you'd pay me back? If you send the police, CSI, I asked him, and so on. He didn't answer, and he didn't. So these are very crazy methods. Normally, it would be like mafia methods, I guess. But I prefer to put it on the mike in public, because now I don't know what I'm going to do for asking this question, and I prefer to say it in advance so we know where the wind is coming from. So that's what I was gonna say. And that, after I found out that even for meetings with SPD MEPs, Mr Stanislav Polčák charges 47 000 per hour, but also for meetings with ANO Members, because it clearly states here that, in addition to the KSČM, all Members - for the Zlín Region, must write here, in one box - so there are members of YES, so that is also for meetings with ANO Members, that is why. Yes, that's what it says! In addition to the KSČM all Members for the Zlín Region, for example, is here 17. 6th column. So, for meetings with members of the YES or the SPD, but apparently with others, I don't know that someone here then bills from public money to municipalities for 47,000 an hour, we can't just leave it unnoticed, this political business plan of the STAN movement, the other strongest government party. So resigning Mr. Polčák to office... for free or apparently for the unpaid post of Vice-President STAN, that's ridiculous. pan Polčák should resign from the mandate of the MEP, thereby deducing his political responsibility, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement should call upon him to do so, but they have not called upon and said nothing of the sort. Yeah, why would they say that? Because silence is consent. They're not going to decompose the government coalition that the shirt is closer than the coat. After all, the only solution is, and this is just a partial solution, to call on the government coalitions, Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Vít Rakušan to give Stanislav Polčák the mandate of the MEP. This must be the point, and it must be that the STAN movement and the government, at least the STAN movement, should face it in some way. But I think the final solution has to be that the STAN will leave the government because it's already so much of a case, but the fact that they're squeezing money out of public budgets at the expense of citizens is not possible. So that's what I was gonna say for starters. I think I know what awaits me from the government coalition, because I expect to be the target of all these mafia practices in quotes to disable Tomio Okamura and disable the SPD. But I'm telling you straight, we're gonna fight for our program. We will continue to fight for freedom, democracy in the Czech Republic, and we will not leave these mafia practices without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u186	Another priority has been given to Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u187	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not do this too often, I do not come into these fights. But what President Okamura did here was absolutely behind the edge, absolutely beyond the edge. [[Member Okamura protests.]] Do not yell at me, my colleague, through Mr President, we are not here in the barn, even though this is what you do sometimes. [[Let's hear it from the right side of the hall.]] Blame the Prime Minister here who told you that if you treat him the way you showed up... I heard that, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u188	I will ask all Members not to shout at each other and, if necessary, to apply and address themselves through the President. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u189	That he wanted to criminalize you or something, that's how you connected it. Only because the Prime Minister told you that if you want to behave like a barn, we will unfortunately treat you like a barn, personally. It's nothing against the rest of the opposition, it's nothing against the SPD club, but you're overreacting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-019-119.u190	Anyone else checking in with priority rights? It's not like that. We can move on to the agenda of the meeting, or the points that we have on the agenda of the meeting. We should discuss a point.
