ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u1	110. Refugee Wave Management Strategy Before I say any more detailed information and give the floor to the plaintiff, I ask your attention, colleagues and colleagues, because to discuss this point, which is the Refugee Wave Management Strategy, the Director General of the Fire Rescue Corps Vladimír Vlček has been invited as a guest. The Commission therefore considers that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 3 other persons may attend the Chamber of Deputies meetings if the Chamber of Deputies agrees to do so, and the President may give them the floor, so I would first vote on the presence of the General at the meeting on this point. I will read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the participation of the Director-General Vladimír Vlček in discussing the refugee wave management strategy'. It is a point that we have placed at 18 o'clock and it is a point that is given to debate. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's at the meeting for the presence of HZS CEO Vladimír Vlček? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 82; 166 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 144, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I will ask that the general director of the fire rescue corps Vladimír Vlček be brought to the meeting hall, which is what is happening. General, welcome. Please take your place. On this point, which we are discussing today, we received on 14 April this year by e-mail material Determining the strategic priorities of the Czech Government for managing the refugee wave related to the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, which was submitted in accordance with paragraph 1/1, the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 184 of 29 March 2022. I now ask that the appellant take the floor on this point, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, who, after the previous agreement, agrees to become the rapporteur at the same time. I beg you, plaintiff, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for putting this fixed point on today's 18th hour, although I wish and I think it is such an important document, and by being submitted to us by 30 March at the earliest, then by 14 April, so we should have discussed it much earlier. I would just like to say, surely the Minister of the Interior should have priority now, who announced that today's meeting at 6 p.m. is due to the fact that all senior ministers must be represented here - that is, the Minister of Education, which I do not see at present, yes, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which I do not see, I see the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior, and I am sorry, I have overlooked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I am very sorry, Mr Minister - that we had the opportunity to speak with the Minister of the Interior on Friday. [[Member Excellent points out that Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka is in the hall.]] I asked the Minister of the Interior if we could get the present document, which, as the Minister calls us, is evolving and is developing in some way, so if we could get it before the meeting, or before the meeting today at 18 o'clock. I must say that I have received from the Minister of the Interior - for this I certainly thank him - today's report that I will receive a management summary in the morning and that at the same time there will be an elaborate strategic starting point. After further presentations, which will describe in detail the individual steps until then we get some document. When I was at a press conference today and I told them I hadn't received anything until now, a lady from the Ministry of the Interior came to see me, who gave me this three-page document. When I left the O.R. today, I saw the same lady here who had a stack of them about the management summary that I was promised to get today in the morning. So I asked her if I could get the document, and I was told there was no way. I just want to say that I think communication and information transfer are very important. I'm terribly sorry - I'm sure I'm positive that the point is finally included, but I'm still convinced that we could have gotten the underlying materials. I think that would be good and fair. So at this point, I'm saying that we only have the document that was introduced to the Security Committee on 14 April, so we kind of don't have another document at this point because what we've received is the four-page one, so that's just a summary that's based on that document from 14 April. Of course, representatives from our Security Committee are prepared to respond to individual ministers. The national coordinator and the main person responsible for the crisis, for all the proceedings, is, of course, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. This means that, after receiving all the information and assumptions, if there is already a strategy, we would definitely like to agree on some final resolution that we would like to adopt here together. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u3	Thank you. As we agreed, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is also becoming rapporteur at the same time, and I thank her for that. The material she mentioned, which is the establishment of strategic priorities of the Czech Government, will be printed and will be distributed to you on your bench during the negotiations, so that you can have it at your disposal. And now I have to deal with a number of priority rights that have arrived at me, and I need to agree, because I have been asked if the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan could speak for the government before I open the general debate. From the applications I have here, Minister Ivan Bartoš is reporting for a general debate, then President Tomio Okamura is registered and I ask if you want to speak before the Minister of the Interior? Okay, I'll give you a word, but I'll check with the others first. Then, Radim Fiala, will it be possible for me to open a general debate, the Minister has spoken, and then Radim Fiala? Thank you. Then Minister Lipavský and others. This means, at this point, the following will be the procedure: President Tomio Okamura will now be given the floor; before the debate is opened, Minister Vít Rakušan is declared with priority rights; then I will open the debate and allow everyone else to speak with priority rights so that other Members and Members can report if appropriate. If no one has a problem with this procedure, there is no reminder of it, so I take it as a procedure that you accept. I will now ask President Tomio Okamura to speak before the general debate is opened. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, finally, after our two-month call, there is a point on the refugee wave management strategy, a government strategy, but do I have to say with horror that what you have printed for us here now, four A4, this is a refugee crisis management strategy, where we have over 300,000 refugees from Ukraine? So you're waving the material here, so why didn't you print it out for us and present it so we could study it quietly? But I've also become familiar with the material. And while we're at it, for example, you're writing here about the measures that were recommended for cancellation. And you write that you want to cancel the fact that compulsory medical examinations for Ukrainian children should be introduced before entering primary, secondary and university schools, and you justify that the Minister of Health will focus on setting some rules for the provision of the first medical examination for the provision of health services. But on the other hand, I don't understand it, because the hygienist - on the other hand, there is an article on the iDNES server, when the hygienist is afraid of the return of polio. Its introduction from abroad is imminent in connection with the migration of Ukrajinec to European countries, including the Czech Republic, and I quote: "The disease can lead to permanent disability or death in a part of the infected. " He'll inform the iDNES. "That is why Czech health professionals started to take samples of water in Zlín and Olomouc, it will continue in Jihlava and Pardubice," said Pavla Svrčinová. Although portable polio has long been eradicated in the Czech Republic by vaccination, which began in 1957 and continues until now, experts warn that this infection may be reappeared in our country due to hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian migrants, who have been adopted without any strategy by the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS. According to experts, there is no cause for panic, but they recommend protecting her with vaccination. A large incidence of tuberculosis, HIV, measles, and jaundice in Ukraine also raises concerns about Ukrainian migrants. In light of this information today, you, Minister of the Interior of Austria, are proposing to abolish compulsory health inspections of Ukrainian children before entering primary, secondary and university schools in the Czech Republic. So that's the number one question I have on you because citizens are texting us mass and they're worried about their children. So what's it gonna be? That's the first question for the Minister. The second question, because I know you're supposed to come after me, is why I wanted to get out immediately to get to the specific answers to these questions. Citizens are asking where the specific locations for the location of inadaptable Roma and Ukrainian refugees will be. Minister, if you could stop hiding it and make it clear which cities and municipalities are planning it, if you would name it the cities and municipalities. So far, what escaped into the media, you said something in the sense that it was supposed to be somewhere in the South Moravian Region and in the Highlands, with the media saying that it was up to 1,500 people. Yes, for example, Vyškov, we know that the mayor is already complaining about it. That means they want to live in a big group, which I don't understand why we're dealing with this? I thought they were war refugees in trouble, so they should be grateful for some accommodations. So I would like to ask you in the second question: please say directly where the locations will be, because citizens are terribly afraid of it - so that it is clear where you want to place them. We say for the SPD, exile to Hungary, for example, when they have Hungarian citizenship. You're looking for accommodation for them, and now you're saying somewhere that you're gonna deal with the Hungarian Home Secretary - late because you don't have a concept, so they're here, okay? And I think we can all agree that they're people, so there's no washing machine, a fridge that you're gonna dump on the street during the collection, but now you've just got the whole Czech Republic into a problem, your government has. So that's question number two. I also have question number three before I evaluate it, I would say a little bit in a broader context. How will it be, Minister, in schools? That is my question number three, Minister, you know Rakušan of the STAN movement, because today the situation is that, for example, the principal of the Chelčický Elementary School in Prague 3, where I happened to go to elementary school, already says that everyone interested in placing in the primary school - Minister, I know you have a lot of work on your phone, but I hope you can hear me... [[Minister Austrian reports that he's taking notes.]] Okay, you're taking notes, so I'm just saying, fair and square here, he didn't comply with all the interested parties, he couldn't even accommodate them because - I quote: "In other words, we would quickly become a school with the majority of pupils from a different language environment. We already had about 25 percent of pupils in classes who were born in families with different mother tongue." So it seems okay to you, I want to ask you first, that in the Czech Republic there will be classes, where most are foreigners and minority are pupils who are born in families, where the Czech language is the mother tongue? Says the director of Chelčický Elementary School in Prague 3, here at Olšanské náměstí pod Flora. And if it's okay with this development, what have you done here, and how do you want to deal with it? Because, for example, the mayor of the city district of Prague - Kolovraty says, I quote: "I personally believe that integration into ordinary classes is not ideal. Schools in the southeast of Prague are overloaded." I also have information here that there will not be enough places for younger children in kindergartens, for example, for younger Czech children, because there is a long-term problem with the capacity of kindergarten schools and, for example, in 2018, schools refused to accept each third child according to school inspection data, with more than one third of them under three years of age. So how are you going to deal with this now that there's no capacity? Logically, the number of teachers is given, or the teachers, let's say, how do you want to deal with it? That's the third area. How? Again, I stress that the full responsibility for all the problems associated with the wave is borne by the government of Petr Fiala. There's no one else here who's responsible for all this trouble, okay? We've been pointing that out from the start. That's the third area of my question. So what about the quality of education? And I'm gonna keep going, and I'm gonna develop it. I am interested in how it will be with the quality of education for Czech children, because it writes us a huge number of citizens, and really huge, so I continue with these questions, Minister, because logically, when the number of children in classes increases and the number of teachers is plus minus the same, plus minus is the same, a few Ukrainian teachers will not, of course, save it in quotation marks, because the wave is so massive that it does not, of course, solve the situation, and logically the situation arises that there will be more pupils in the classroom for the same number of teachers or per teacher on average. The number of pupils who do not speak Czech will increase. [[18.20 hours]] So logically it follows my parents, as they write to me, and logically it is, the quality of teaching for Czech citizens is falling. And you say, "Hold on, you have to hold on, we have to help." But we have people who are worried about reducing the quality of our children's education. So the question is, can you guarantee it, and you can't, because it is clear that teaching for Czech children will not fall? Or say it straight: Dear Czech parents, I - like you, Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan - tell you that you must endure it. Like I've heard from government officials. You just have to endure it, that your kids will have worse lessons. So I'm wondering what's in this strategy. So that's the area of education. It's a health area. In the Czech Republic, there are 2,000 pediatricians, children's doctors. More than a month ago or a month ago, the pediatrician association said that a month ago or a month ago, in the state of the number of refugees, those Ukrainian migrants, they said that on average, any pediatrician would... Well, I'll wait until you've had your fun, because I thought you agreed to the point here because you'd like to answer the questions. But if Mr. Cogan of New Paka, Chairman of the STAN Club, if he thinks this is more important, then I don't know why it's called, the point. So, please, I was gonna ask you if you would say, 'cause the baby doctors, huh? So here are 2,000 pediatricians. The Association of Children's Doctors has already said that for this number of refugees they would have to take 50 extra children into the database for a single doctor, but this is an indication of when they said it about a month and a half ago, so, of course, the number has grown since then. As you know, the average age of pediatricians in the Czech Republic is very high, it's about 60 years old. That means, it is not - there are of course certain physical possibilities, there are time - it is not possible to ordinate 15 hours a day. And most importantly, the trend. You say strategy - pediatricians will logically decline due to age, but the children here, the yearning government non-strategics, or the fact that you haven't thought about it, will of course become more and more of a burden for children's doctors. And now I hope we don't blame ourselves here for who wants to help, who doesn't want to. The SPD has clearly said to the real war refugees here - which you are now admitting to today that you will finally identify someone or that you will address them, after more than two months and after great opposition pressure - so we say to help adequately, only for the necessary time, in which we are different from the government as the SPD, and after the conflict to come back to build their country, because even now, on most of the territory, there is no war going on, so housing is there. And of course the fact that it is a poorer country, so it is, it is a fact and that is the way it is in the world, so it cannot be at the expense of the citizens of the Czech Republic! So we refuse to make health care, social conditions, and education worse for our citizens at the expense of a failed government activity. So what I'm asking is, what's going to happen with the pediatricians? Because, Minister of the Interior, Austrian, you obviously don't realize this: what you've been doing here for the last two months is not about who wants help, not helping, it's about the citizens getting started, they can start rebelling over a short period of time, and a number of citizens are getting hot because they're starting to wait with a doctor, they're starting to put off performances, and because you're just doing it like amateurs and dilettants, or I don't know whether or not you're such a spectator. I think you're doing this because you haven't thought this through at all, ready. And I say, if that's what it would be, we've already said our proposal here. Your proposal is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u5	I'll ask you not to yell at the Prime Minister so that he can speak calmly. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u6	And I'm gonna say it here. Mr. Gazdík here is calling me what we're proposing. I'm telling you. I said this afternoon...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u7	I have arranged order, Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u8	So I'm gonna say our principle proposal, of course. I'll say it again, I've repeated it in the media a hundred times that Petr Fiala says he's counting on those Ukrainian migrants staying here. Prime Minister of ODS, Marek Benda, Mr Vít Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN movement and Minister of the Interior, and Prime Minister Fiala also said that we should take all of them, so that is the government's strategy. And versus that, I'm going to say what the SPD proposal is, so I'm going to do it again: only adequate help for a very long time. After the end of the conflict there may be some transitional period, so everyone should return from the Czech Republic, not prolong visas, briefly. You're talking about integration. I'm saying they shouldn't integrate, because we should expect them to come back. Plus, most of the territory isn't in the war, and it's going back. By the way, did you notice how the number of used cars in the Czech Republic increased? They're official numbers. That is why the prices of used cars in the Czech Republic have increased, because a huge boom has blossomed in the used car business, because President Zelenskyj has forgiven the car import tax. That means, to the country that those refugees are fleeing, they've mass-imported cars. That means, the only basically larger property these refugees should have theoretically, when you say that everyone here walks around with plastic bags and this, so they have their property, which they should out of desperation buy used cars, so massively import to Ukraine and are queues on the Ukrainian-Polish border with those trucks fully loaded with used cars and import them to Ukraine. Well, logically, one has to ask - that doesn't make the situation less difficult - so what is the situation of most of that country when they import their valuable property in that poor country in peace, this shop blossomed, those used cars are sold there in peace and imported there to Ukraine? So the fact that it's here that you guys have done it all wrong, we've been gone for over two months, and now we've got almost 400,000 refugees from Ukraine who haven't even needed the help. And once again, citizens write to me that we see here, I've seen them many times, super-luxury cars with Ukrainian brands. And the question is, why don't these people sell the car for millions of crowns -- are the latest models, Audi A8, for example, and so on, for millions of crowns, and they could pay for it if they need some expenses? So you're doing all of this completely random, unaddressed. And people are complaining that the license plates are from western Ukraine, where there is no war. And again, Minister, I'd like to ask you not to accuse the SPD of being a bit of a dope or a dope. Let's deal with things in a matter of fact, those things. I'm drawing on the questions that the citizens are writing to me, and neither of those questions is that one citizen would write, which I can assure you. It's all in the order of at least tens to hundreds I mention here. So, of course, the address is a problem, huh? That means I'm gonna go back to the health care. So what you do in an instant, and it's happening that people, and they write to me citizens, it's also about dentists and others that say, "We have to take these Ukrajinec, we have some instructions." It would be good to disprove or confirm that the Ukrajinec are to be married, and then Czech citizens are waiting or simply stretching out, making access to health care worse for our citizens. So what do you want to do about it? All we've heard from you so far is: you have to hold it, we have to help, you have to hold it. Yeah, but this isn't gonna work, it's gonna get out of hand with the Czech company. And don't tell me Okamura here is on purpose haunting and dividing society, that's nonsense, that's not gonna put it away, that's the problem. It is necessary to have a strategy, a clear strategy, how you want to communicate and do it so that most citizens of the Czech Republic understand it, or preferably everyone. So I can tell you that the problem will, of course, start from September, because many of those Ukrainian migrants, those children, will start going to Czech schools and, of course, there will be tension. There's going to be a tension, and there's going to be a tension. So you need to make it clear what it's going to be and what you're going to do about it. We designed the solution. If you - but the solution is up to you, you agreed to be in the government, you said you could do it, so there's no point throwing it at the opposition because you have full responsibility. So this is about schools. Of course, I have these questions - I could specify it for a long time, but I want to give you some space. [[18.30 hours]] I would also like to note that the STEM survey, which you take lightly, but what is fully confirmed is what I have been warning about for two months that 70 percent of the population believe that the arrival of refugees from Ukraine will lead to a weakening of the social security of Czech citizens. Yes, we share their concerns, which is why we've been pushing you here for two months. But it's like throwing games on a wall. So, Minister, you really shouldn't get 11 or 10 percent of STAN voters or 30 - or how many percent of you have together the SPOLU coalition and your government, 40, over 40 percent, I don't know, that's not important right now - but there's 100 percent of citizens, there's over 10 million citizens - or 10 million circuses, or what exactly it is, I don't know, ten and a half - and you'd have 70 percent of them, which means an estimate of 7 million - well, there's kids like, well, let's not take a word for it now - he's worried. As Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister of the Fiala, you should clearly disprove these concerns, and you are not doing so. But you can disprove them, if I may recommend one thing, only in concrete steps. You can't really disprove it here by saying nice things, or by saying nice things in quotes - it doesn't seem nice to me, of course, because it's complete alibiism and it's completely out of reality. Of course, here, people also write that the benefit, the humanitarian benefit that the government gives, is 5,000 per month per person you have decided to draw on repeatedly, so it is higher than in Slovakia and Poland and Hungary, for example, people state, so if you would explain it, because in my documents I have that Slovakia is a circus of CZK 1,700 per person per adult, Poland a single dose of CZK 1,580 per person, CZK 1,580 per zloty. So how it is, and what's the reason you're overpaying like this in comparison to other countries, or if there's any reason, or if it's something wider, that's how it works. You here, Minister Jurečka, somewhere said the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL said that those inadaptable Romani refugees were not receiving the benefits. Well, obviously someone's lying. Someone's lying! But it's someone from the government coalition, anyway, because Governor Grolich for the South Moravian region, who is a folklore, says that "they have a visa for a month" - I quote - "so they have been paid a benefit." And he goes on to say - I quote that "as soon as we pay them 5,000 crowns, they often sit on a train and leave. I don't know if they're going to another county or state or back to Ukraine. We're not able to follow it." Well, that's a hell of a mess you've got there. But the worst part is it's for public money. If it was for yours, I wouldn't care, but it's for SPD voters' money. And we can't keep quiet about that, because now you're also using SPD taxpayers' money, at least half a million SPD voters who disagree with you, that you're actually using their resources, even though most Czech citizens didn't vote for you, as you know, because a million votes fell below 5% for those parties. Plus, this guy Grolich here from the People's Party, so your coalition colleague here says they can't turn down the inadaptable migrants. So the county can't turn them down! You force, you have forced the citizens of the Czech Republic and the regional leadership to take, forced to accept the inadaptable Romani migrants, while we have enough inadaptable here. Last two weeks ago, you rejected the SPD law to end the abuse of doses that are inadaptable. I understand you're inadaptable, your government, we're against it, but it would be fair to say where you want to move them and what will happen next. So I have other questions here. Next: staff of the Labour Office. They are completely, they are - I have internal information of course, and you certainly have them too, maybe, I don't know, because it seems to me that you all have your head in the sky in that government somewhere, somewhere on Mars, I don't know where, but certainly not on the ground that you would reflect the problems here - so the authorities of work. You did a lot of extra work to them after your government came along and they didn't have any adequate ratings anymore, just seeing it, what's going on at the office of work in Brno and the like, where they are completely - it's just not something else to call it than hordes of people who can't even... They almost disprove the glass doors that open there, how they can't fit into those doors, how busy they are at the dosages, groups of unadaptable ones, and each person is basically 5,000 out of taxes, if I simplify it, from the taxes of citizens of the Czech Republic, so does this seem normal to you? I've heard Mr. Jurečka's words somewhere that they're supposed to hold out. Well, that's awful completely, this. That is why I am not surprised that the citizens also call you the Ukrainian government and Prime Minister of Fial the Ukrainian Prime Minister. It's true, it's true. I have the same feeling because I can see into you at close range. So that's another series of questions I have here. And as I'm saying, we've got more than two months after the start of the problem, and the strategy here should have been partial, even after 14 days. I'm not saying, that day, I understand, a sudden situation. But the strategy behind a) should have been here before, I'm talking about a strategy aimed specifically at this Ukraine, but a) should have been from earlier, functional, because if migration waves have been here since 2015, something should have been prepared here. It's not ready, you've got six months of majority and nothing, and now we've been waiting for it for two months. But as far as I'm concerned, it's not really a proper strategy. The next thing I wanted to ask you is that it also applies, and it is a matter that should finally be clarified here because you repeatedly reject this draft point of ours, and it is that the European Commission is proposing to establish a solidarity fund from which it intends to finance the post-war reconstruction of Ukraine. According to Bloomberg, the European Commission has already made it clear to Member States that most of the long-term costs will be borne by EU Member States, including the Czech Republic. I wonder in this context - I will not repeat myself because I said it here last week, also this afternoon - how it is economically, because if we do not have money, you do not want to give money to Czech citizens to have a good time, you do not want to deal with the expensive, Czech people, Czech citizens are getting into financial emergency, you want to agree - because the Prime Minister is silent about it, I have already called him on it, other government representatives also do not want to comment on this topic - so you want to indebt the Czech Republic and our citizens that we will participate in the European Commission's plan, send hundreds of billions of euros, literally hundreds of billions are supposed to be, to restore Ukraine? So what's it gonna be? So where's your priority? I'd like to hear from the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, if you refuse, this plan. That's my question, would you say yes, we refuse, or will you keep quiet, or even agree? And knowing you like that, you won't say yes, you won't say no. You'll pass without an answer. That's my guess, as I already know you. But we'll keep asking questions. So further, it is a matter of coexistence, because it is starting to become increasingly intense in society, Minister, when a really large proportion of citizens are becoming allergic to this situation. Not Okamura, a large proportion of the citizens. My job is to deal with it, deal with it here in the House, well, from the opposition, we don't have executive powers, but we can at least put some pressure on you to deal with it when you've agreed to be in the government. So how do you deal with the strategy, Mr. Secretary? I hope you've got it written down, how you want to solve social tension in society. And don't tell me Okamura and the SPD are making some kind of passion out of this place, or they're tearing apart their ditches. That's all you talk about, your government always gets you off the subject. I'm telling you, this is a serious problem. Serious problem! It will also be a problem in the labour market. And that's my next question. So what is the situation in the labour market with regard to employment opportunities for our low-income citizens in manual professions, who are afraid of being pushed out by Ukrajinec? [[Minister Jurečka off the microphone from the government bench: Work is enough.]] That's what needs to be said. [[18.40 hours]] Minister Jurečka behind me says there's enough work. Mr. Secretary, this isn't about whether there's enough work. It's obvious again that you're completely - that you probably fell from Mars. The work must also be adequately evaluated, and when the workforce comes here - I am surprised to have to call the Minister the basic economic considerations here, but in your case I am not surprised - because when it comes to the labour market 100,000 people who are willing to work for a lower wage than our citizens, they logically cut wages. [[He's raising his voice.]] Do you want me to explain it to you half-pathically? I can't believe the Minister's even saying that behind me. It's absolutely unbelievable who's in the government here. That there's enough work, that's your answer. But the point is, the Ukrajinec will be cutting off our citizens' average wages. Are you really that dumb? Do not be angry with me, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u9	My colleague, I must interrupt you. [[Members of the coalition are pounding into the benches.]] I've crossed the word brothel yet, however...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u10	The word dumb isn't dirty, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u11	Please forgive the invectives of this character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u12	Dear Members of the Coalition, if the Minister had not called upon me here in violation of the Rules of Procedure - so do not threaten me, Mr Výborný, do not point your finger at me - if your Minister had behaved politely and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, where you clearly had written that the Members spoke to the microphone, yes, I would not have had to respond. Do we understand each other? [[Voice off the microphone.]] Do we understand each other? So don't yell at me. [[Voices from the diaper.]] So don't yell at me. Through the President, maybe I'll say it a hundred times in advance. So I say again, you're confusing the cause and effect again. I was reacting to someone yelling at me from behind. You didn't even hear what was being yelled at me - nothing wrong, right, but I couldn't agree with it in a matter of fact, the minister wasn't talking dirty, the truth. So calm down, 'cause you guys better get your order together first. And that's that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u13	Member, address your colleagues through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u14	Yes. And the fact that you've been banging on the bench is great, because it sounds beautiful when citizens play it, that in the moment when I'm here fighting for the decent citizens in the Czech Republic and you've brought the Czech Republic into total chaos, and you're still banging on the table, I'm calling you to bang now, calmly! Keep banging on my speech. Come on, 'cause you guys are guilty of all the problems that will be here this year or next year. So bang here all you want, but I will continue to defend the citizens of the Czech Republic with all my strength, decent people who have families now have no interest because you don't give a damn about them, we've already discussed this, and there will be problems in health, social services and everywhere. So hit yourself all you want. You're just a dumb government, and I'll tell you again, you don't get it, and now you're gonna have to bang a hundred more times. You're all dumb, not just one, you're all from Mars, I'm telling you, and now yell at me. You can yell me again, that's right. Our voters are texting us mass, yes, you probably have the following couple on Facebook, so maybe someone will write you. They only write me comments on social media - and you can look - 5,000 people a day. It's not just that. [[Members of the coalition are leaving the Chamber.]] And now I'm going to the speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the subject of Ukrainian migrants several times, so excuse me if I repeat any of the facts. The first and crucial thing is that Ukraine has become an ideology, so whoever criticizes specific non-conceptionary government action is dirty as a traitor. I would add that the members of the government coalition are even banging on the table. Of course, this only indicates that the government is doing its job badly and cannot explain its actions to the public. The good news is that time eventually always shows the truth, and also that usually it is a thief who screams: Thieves! The SPD movement has repeatedly called for the government to submit a strategy for managing the refugee crisis from Ukraine. Our citizens are quite rightly complaining about the government, and there is an upheaval against the government. After more than two months on the basis of opposition pressure, the Deputy Government Minister of the Interior will finally Rakušan for the STAN movement on strategy, and it is of course nothing positive for our citizens, no matter what the performance will be, because the problem is already here. Here I would just point out that most of the government Members have now left their benches, because they are clearly not interested in this important subject. The government of Petr Fiala and Minister Rakušan solve everything randomly, without concrete analyses of the impact on our citizens and on our republic, without dates and deadlines. The SPD movement clearly states that aid to Ukrainian war refugees must be proportionate, only for the necessary time and must not take place at the expense of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The form of aid must not jeopardise social reconciliation in our country, must not cause social tension and must not jeopardise and restrict the access of Czech citizens to public health or education services and reduce the provision of delayed health performances for so long. Ukraine's migrants, in our opinion, should then return to their homeland and build their country after calming the situation, as there is no war on the vast majority of Ukraine's territory. For the SPD, our citizens are in the first place, and most importantly, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, it should be addressed. I don't understand why this is helping - well, you don't really know, because to identify - you admitted that you don't know at all in the government - because there are rich people in luxury cars, and they seem to be getting help too, instead of selling their million-dollar cars that are much more expensive than most people in the Czech Republic - I'm talking about Ukrainian refugees or migrants. It is also necessary to evaluate correctly, and I have not yet noted this in my question, and I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan: how do you distinguish a war fugitive from an economic migrant? Because it's essentially going to happen here gradually - and it's already happening - because at the moment that refugees or migrants choose - and you can see that the information is already circulating in the public - already in Europe a country where they have the best conditions, so it essentially turns gradually into economic migration, logically, right? And now, I really would hate for us to go smoothly into economic migration by you extending the visas and - I know that these are visas for a year, but that you can already allow these people to be given standard residence permits, and that's a problem, because I think that the visa should be terminated afterwards, and those people should basically have to go back to Ukraine, okay? And I need to assure you, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, that the visas will not be extended, that they will be identified, because most people I think will have housing in Ukraine, there will be opportunities, but we cannot help the whole world, of course, that would be the Czech Republic... It's like a boat, with a lifeboat, it has its capacity, or everyone will sink. That's just the way it is. The government's criteria for helping Ukrainian migrants are across-the-board, unaddressed, and, unlike helping Czech citizens, government aid to Ukrajinec is bureaucratically low and fast. It is the exact opposite of helping or rather not helping Czech citizens, with the fact that some help for our citizens is neither horizontal nor addressable, and is in fact discriminatory, when the Czech pensioner or disabled cannot be helped, while there are proselytized groups of so-called inadaptables who are in working age and on the black market or in criminal activity very active. I would also like to ask, in this context, who will have the responsibility. I know you have the responsibility, of course, but how it will turn out, because there is a rumor - and you have already spoken about it yourself, Minister, but lately, we already talked about it two months ago - that various criminal elements from Ukraine are infiltrating our territory and here, yes? So, what's it gonna be? How do you treat increased crime? So far I've heard from you, it's been at our meeting that you can't guarantee that there won't be any criminals or any people here either, but that's a little small for two months, it's a little small that it's a little bit... no longer enough that it's an understatement. So how will you guarantee security to the citizens of the Czech Republic? I was pointing that out, and I was being chased here for 168 hours a month and a half ago by a show that bullying me for my expression that these fugitives - a part of them, for example, or one of them - could be a security risk. That's what they wanted to bully me for, and they wanted to drag me in the media, a 168-hour show. And it comes down to my words, when the Interior Minister Rakušan already acknowledges, yes, that among them - you said it here somewhere in the media, I guess today, I read it yesterday - that there may be a risk that there are some criminal elements among them, and now you don't know what to do with it logically. So I was right, of course, and for that, in my opinion, this cheating program of 168 hours on Czech TV did it again in its own way to tarnish the SPD. [[18.50 hours]] So the rules of aid to migrants from Ukraine, as set up by the government today, unfortunately, support primarily economic migration. There is no more fighting on the vast part of Ukraine, and there is no problem for potential refugees from war places, i.e. from the east, to provide accommodation, such as under the patronage of the UN and so on. After all, most of the people of Ukraine live in Ukraine, the vast majority of the population of Ukraine from the 45 million-dollar country stays in Ukraine and lives, so under the patronage of the UN, even the premieres go there, the British Prime Minister goes to Kiev, now there was the wife of the US President, was in Ukraine, yesterday it was, in Uzhhorod. So it's not true that politicians from all over Europe, even from the US, normally go there. Then what is it? In my opinion, safe accommodation in Ukraine, such as under the patronage of the UN, can be secured directly in Ukraine. What I'm blaming you for is that you're not pushing peace talks. Your only solution is accepting migrants, and now you don't know what to do with them... Well, you know what to do with them, you want to accept them all and you cause social tension here, you cause, but most importantly, you should direct the solution to the point where the visa will be terminated gradually, you will find that those people will return to their homeland. There should be some capacity for accommodation, such as under the patronage of the UN. But you're saying integration, integration of nearly 400,000 refugees, and I'm telling you, it's going to be a big problem, because now it looks like it's already been lived by several hundred thousand Ukrajinec, and now almost 400,000 have come here, so now it seems that every tenth citizen of the Czech Republic will be Ukrajinec. Every tenth citizen of the Czech Republic will be Ukrainian! And I'm telling you, it's not sustainable. That it's not sustainable! So I would really like you to focus in this way, too. It would also be good for you to press for peace talks on your part, because I haven't heard of it at all, so... So I hear Mr. Jakob here that my performance here is absolutely undignified. [[Member Jakob: It is.]] So you're already at 3 percent of the preferences, your Mrs Pekarová Adamová seems more dignified. [[Laughs and applause for SPD Members and some members of YES 2011.]] Let's get the voters to evaluate it. Let's get it evaluated by voters who are dignified and who isn't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u15	Mr President, get back to the subject. Don't respond to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u16	So don't let him talk to me from behind all the time. They're upset, so they're still talking to me from behind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u17	He's probably not talking to you, but whatever.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u18	They're so nervous. What's interesting is that when we call on them to respond to the microphone, none of them go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u19	Prime Minister, to the point, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u20	Then why isn't he talking to me from behind? Or don't let him talk to me like Mr. Jakob does. I'm not talking to you right now. This is Mr. Jakob, Chairman of the STAN Club, commenting on what's dignified and what's not. [[Deputy Prime Minister Austrian: TOP 09.]] TOP 09, yes. You told me to say it wasn't STAN, but TOP 09, it's a good thing you distanced yourself a little bit from your coalition buddy. [[Fun and applause for members of the SPD.]] The truth is, I don't think it's dignified the way Mrs. Pekarová Adamová represents us here, I have to say this honestly. And neither is our voter. So, ladies and gentlemen, take a look for example, try to get out of the office and take a look at the largest flea market in the Czech Republic - U Elektra. There you will see hundreds of Ukrainian migrants between sellers and thousands among buyers. And how do you know them? Usually, there's a huge new cabinet Mercedes at the dealer's, and there's smuggled goods around it. And as for expensive cars and quantities of goods, there's no difference between a former or current dealer from Ukraine. But it is true that many Ukrajinec meet in used older Czech cars. Yes, cars are bought out, and tens of thousands of cars purchased are headed for Ukraine. As far as this phenomenon is concerned, it is probably a targeted project, because, as I said, President Zelenskyj canceled all duties and charges on their imports, Ukrajinec are buying cars all over Europe and driving them, wondering, to their country where they fled from. It is remarkable that Ukrajinec are driving their valuable property back to their country, from where they will flee for another car. Haven't any of you stopped at that? The government hasn't stopped, we have. By the way, here's one of the keys to knowing which migrant is in distress and which isn't. I hope the transport inspectorates under Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan have an overview of who buys cars and what cars they drive around here. Ukrajinec can ride here free of charge for six months without compulsory liability and I do not know how it is bureaucratically treated, but perhaps the Czech insurer's office could provide some data. And it would be nice if the government, Petr Fiala, provided our disabled or elderly people living below the poverty line, with the same assistance - free liability. Of course, Petr Fiala's government won't even think about that, because it's insurance, we're paying the compulsory security costs on Ukrainians, and we're paying for their super-luxury cars, all of us who have a car. It is not paid by the Czech insurer's office, and it is a question of whether such a gift is beyond the law for people, many of whom do not need help. That's how the government spends our money. None of us, not one of our citizens, will ever refuse to help anyone who runs from the war zone to the first safe place. But how are you going to force people into solidarity with those who are clearly taking advantage? People from the subsidiary of the General Health Insurance Company, PVZP, which is a commercial insurance company that provides health insurance to foreigners, will surely tell you how many daily Ukrainian refugees who buy commercial health insurance for the whole of the European Union. They do not want it Czech for free, because they are going to go around Europe these days looking for where they will do best. And that's information from our representatives in the VZP leadership. After the Maidan coup, there was research in Ukraine in which more than 70 percent of Ukrajinec said that if they had the chance, they would emigrate to the West. This was one of the main reasons why all the talks about Ukraine's accession to the European Union have really stopped. Now you've opened the gates wide. And I'm not talking about not helping - I'm saying about the way you do it. So you opened the gates wide open, and in blinding ideologies you refuse to distinguish between those who really need help and those who simply came to earn money. No, I don't blame the Ukrajinec for doing what's best for them. We say, "Dumb, who gives, but dumber, who doesn't take." I resent you, Government, Prime Minister Fialo of ODS and Interior Minister Rakušan of the STAN movement, because targeted aid, and preferably directly in Ukraine, would be cheaper and more effective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u21	[[There's none of the ministers in the hall.]] Mr. Chairman, I must interrupt you, at this point in the room... [[Minister Černochová enters]] ... finds Madam Secretary, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u22	Madam Secretary is here, so let's go. This means that we could even provide more to those in need than we are now when you spend money on everyone. So you guys were setting me up again for wanting neither minister to be here to interrupt me, but that was here last time. There's a constitutional complaint, so let's see how the Constitutional Court decides. This is how you wanted to interrupt me under the pandemic law. Let's move on. The territories that are safe in Ukraine have a larger area than the whole Czech Republic. The territories that are safe in Ukraine have a larger area than the whole Czech Republic! That is a fact and it is possible to build refugee camps with international protection of the UN and also in agreement with the Russians, and I am not talking about a tent town. After all, you can choose the whole safe cities and there to help build apartments and infrastructure. Such assistance will not only be targeted and effective, but will also help Ukraine itself in the future, because the money will not only stay there, but it will even be evaluated, it will not eat. The second absolutely crucial thing is that help to anyone must not be discriminatory. The government must not favour the social assistance of Ukrainians in front of Czech citizens. I don't know what the Czech pensioners who worked for this country for decades did to you, built it and put money in the state register, and now you are generously throwing money out of their money at their expense. Not only in front of boh but also in front of the state is every man equal, and if an old Czech grandmother stands before you, she has the right to at least the same help, but in my opinion to be higher than any foreigner, notabene a foreigner who parked a Mercedes or audi in front of social services. And again, so we don't twist our words. I see, of course, that Minister Vít Rakušan is no longer here, but I do not ask for his presence, it is useless. It's completely unnecessary, he doesn't want to listen, because you're the elite government, you don't care about the SPD's opinions, which were voted by over half a million voters, but okay, we'll talk about it here and the citizens will hear it. Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan just left, so he can't even note the questions, he can't note the notes, he doesn't want to note them. The government of the elite doesn't care! So I'll keep talking. I'm not even asking for a break that he's not here. [[19.00 hours]] So let's not twist our words again. The same in Granny's quotation marks, which came with a plastic bag from Ukraine and has nowhere to go because they rejected it in the first safe place despite the Dublin agreements, let us help. Assistance to migrants from Ukraine must only be proportionate, only for the necessary time and with the return to Ukraine to build their country. But Prime Minister Fiala says that he is counting on migrants to stay here permanently, and the chairman of the ODS government's ODS, Marek Benda, says that the government is to accept Ukrainian migrants indefinitely. The SPD doesn't agree with that. For example, a bunch of people of working age who are traveling around Europe looking for the best economic berth is not a war refugee, he is an economic migrant and I strongly reject the Czech State's support for him at the expense of Czech citizens. This is not xenophobia, it is common sense that most politicians and also some media are clearly lost. And oddly enough, it's not even for the benefit of Ukraine. It certainly doesn't help Ukraine if its richest people...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-001-110.u23	Mr President, at this point, I must interrupt you because there is no member of the Government in the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm interrupting our meeting for five minutes. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 19.00 to 19.00.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's 7:05 p.m., break's over. Before I go to the important one, I would like to make one more apology, namely, Mrs Tatjan Malá apologizes between 7:00 and midnight for work reasons. Now for the big one. Because, even within five minutes, none of the members of the government showed up to the O.R., and I have news that it will not happen, so I have no choice but to interrupt today's meeting. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning. Have a nice rest of the evening and see you tomorrow.
