ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u1	70. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 165/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered as Parliamentary Press 165/1 and I ask that the motion tabled under the authority of the Senate be presented by Senator Roman Kraus, whom I welcome in the Chamber of Deputies, and I ask him to take the floor. And I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down, and if you are not interested in discussing the issue, you will transfer your discussions to the lobby. Senator, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I wish you a good day and I would like to present to you a proposal for a Senate law amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws. Shortly from the legislative process. The Senate discussed as a committee the guarantee committee on health and three other committees: for foreign affairs, defence and security, the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport and the Committee on Constitutional Law and at the 21st meeting on 2 March by Resolution 405, the Senate passed the Senate Bill. The Government's position has been distributed to you 8. 4. and it was agreed. The text of the Senate Bill is in front of you. He's got five parts, and I'm just briefly from the explanatory report. Firstly, an assessment of the legal situation in force. Currently valid and effective legislation is defective and is contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and to European law. Legislation following the adoption of the amendment of Act No. 274/2021 Coll. is contrary to the right to freedom of business. Before adopting the amendment, travel health insurance was provided to foreigners by a number of insurance companies whose business was terminated, thereby significantly restricting their right to freely enter into business. Such a restriction may be constitutionally permissible only if it is legitimately justified and it is natural. The amendment runs counter to European law, including the fundamental treaties on the European Union. The proposed legislation corrects the current valid and effective defective relationship, when a monopoly of PVZP was created for the negotiation of health insurance for foreigners. The provision of health insurance to foreigners by this draft law, and this is essential, will be allowed to a larger range of insurance companies that meet the conditions of the law, when at the same time there will be greater transparency of the insurance system provided to foreigners. The proposal creates a register of health insurance for foreigners, which will be led by the Czech insurer's office, and what is important for regulating the movement of foreigners and the enforcement of this health travel insurance, will have access to this register free of charge both the Ministry of the Interior, the Police of the Czech Republic and then, and that is important, health care providers, because they will be sure that these people are insured and how. In doing so, this bill further provides an obligation for health care establishments to provide urgent care, which they can provide only up to the level of insurance, or refuse it if necessary. These are probably the most important things in this bill. And then there is a substantial increase in the minimum amount of insurance for one episode of treatment, diagnosis, from 60,000 euros to 120,000 euros, so as we have statistics on patients who are foreigners from non-EU countries, only six to seven a year requires care at a higher price than this 120 000 euro. As far as the impact assessment of the proposed solution with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic is concerned, the proposed proposal is certainly in full compliance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, as set out in Article 112 of the Constitution, as well as the assessment of these effects on discrimination and the protection of private data is clear - the proposed legislation makes no distinction as to the sex of a natural person, which means it concerns both men and women in the same way. It does not contain any provision which distorts the right to equal treatment and leads to discrimination. With regard to the assessment of corruption risks, it is clear that they are not foreseen in relation to the issue, and the assessment of the effects on the security or defence of the state - has no impact on the security and defence of the state. As regards the compliance of legislation with European Union legislation, the proposed legislation is fully compatible with European Union legislation, the case law of the European Union judicial authorities or general legal principles. [[10.30 hours]] As regards the effects of economic and financial, this adjustment does not constitute an increased expenditure for the state budget or other public budgets, on the contrary, the proposed adjustment has a positive impact on the public health insurance system, which already bears the costs of the first two months of postpartum care, and this provision ensures insurance for children born to foreigners who have a long-term residence up to 12 months of age, which is a substantial difference. So maybe this is a brief justification for this Senate bill and I would like to conclude by asking you for a commandment to the Committees or the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u3	I thank you, Senator, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr Hubert Lang. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, and I will hand over the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u4	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I have been designated as rapporteur for this press. Something has already been mentioned here by the senator. This is therefore House press number 165, which is the Senate bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic, and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws. In the last parliamentary term, the Chamber of Deputies agreed that foreigners with a long-term stay in the Czech Republic would have to be commercially insured only at the VZP Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the General Health Insurance Company. The Senate is now proposing to abolish the monopoly on health insurance for foreigners at VZP. Senators suggest that the provision of health insurance to foreigners be made possible to a larger group of insurance companies. The proposal envisages the creation of a register of health insurance for foreigners, which would be managed by the Czech insurer's office. The register that should be established would include selected data on agreed commercial health insurance of foreigners, access to it would be provided by a medical facility and, if necessary, police. The amendment is intended to allow foreigners to terminate the contract with the VZP Insurance Company within three months and to insure themselves to the insurance company at their discretion. Children of foreigners born in the Czech Republic should not be insured from public insurance only for the first two months of their birth, but for 12 months. It would concern children whose mother or father is allowed permanent residence in the Czech Republic. The amendment also has to double the limit of health insurance for foreigners with a long stay, it would have to be agreed on at least 120 000 euros, which is approximately CZK 3 million. The authors of the draft justified this by not increasing the limit for ten years. Insurance companies are required, according to the proposed proposal, to renew travel health insurance to insured persons who are interested. It is intended to prevent situations that a sick stranger would remain completely uninsured in the Czech territory. Regulation for the adoption of the amendment of Act No. 274/2021 Coll., as the government says, is contrary to the right to freedom of business. Before adopting the amendment, travel health insurance was provided to foreigners by a number of insurance companies whose business was terminated, thereby significantly limiting their right to freely enter into business. Such a restriction may be constitutionally permissible only if it is legitimately justified and proportionate. However, this is not the case in the case of current applicable and effective legislation. The main reason for the adoption of the amendment was allegedly replaced by claims from healthcare provided to foreigners. However, these claims do not arise due to foreigners who are insured with insurance companies other than VZP insurance companies, due to foreigners who are not insured at all. Thus, the introduction of the PHP monopoly does not solve this problem. Furthermore, the amendment does not stand from the point of view of the so-called suitability test in relation to interest in the quality and availability of healthcare. The PHP monopoly does not guarantee the quality or availability of these services and therefore does not go towards a tough target at all. Furthermore, the amendment does not stand in the test of need, quality assurance and availability of health services can be determined in a manner, certain conditions, licence requirements or other means. [[Secure?]] Thus, the funds would not have significantly affected the right to enter into business. According to the petitioners, the amendment will not stand even in the assessment test, since the claimed benefits of the PHP monopoly over the negative consequences of this measure for commercial insurance companies whose business is liquidated, and for foreigners themselves, who have a fundamentally limited choice of insurance or for the state of the market, which according to the applicants is in the state of any competition, are suffering from this. [[Loss?]] The proposer goes on to say: Moreover, the current legislation is highly risky. The fact that travel health insurance can only be provided by the PVZP threatens that, should the PVZP cease to provide this product or no longer be able to provide it, it would not be possible to comply with the legislation. The Czech National Bank and the Ministry of Health pointed out these facts during the original legal process. The proposed modification corrects the current and effective defective condition, as the applicant says, which created a monopoly on PVZP, a subsidiary of the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic for the negotiation of health insurance for foreigners. Government view: Government supports the intention to abolish the monopoly of VZP, a. s. and to allow the conclusion of travel health insurance with commercial insurance companies. In this context, the government points out that the administration of the register of health insurance for foreigners and the Czech office of their insurers is a possible solution, but the Czech insurance company does not constitute a system element in the applicable legislation. The Czech insurer's office is a legal entity established pursuant to § 18 para. 1 of Law No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle, and the legal obligations of the Czech insurer's offices laid down by law so far concern the issue of liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle, and its health insurance was not originally foreseen. The proposed legislation also deals with the existence of the Central Insurance Register pursuant to Section 27 of Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, where data on health insurance of foreigners could probably also be included. In conclusion, it should also be noted that the provisions of § 180 jb) para. 3 supplemented by a bill on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic can be interpreted as meaning that legal persons who are not established by law and who do not keep any records which would be an information system of public administration will be obliged to communicate to the Czech insurer's office the data necessary for the conduct of the register of health insurance of foreigners. However the wording of the proposed provision corresponds to the provisions of § 27 para. 3 of the quoted Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance, recommends the Government to consider whether the Czech Insurance Office's authorisation is too broad and whether this could not be a conflict with other legislation, for example in the area of personal data protection. This is a short summary of the proposed adjustment and I would like to add one sentence that, given that this issue is rather focused on the health sector, it has been ordered by the Committee on Safety, we propose that the Guarantee Committee be set up by the Committee on Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and allow me to welcome you all. I hereby open a general debate to which four Members have so far signed up, and I would like to ask the first of them, Mr Janulík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, hello. I'm just gonna follow up on what was going on here. I hope it's been two years since it sounded here, yesterday and so on and so forth. [[10.40 hours]] Well, look, let's get this straight with common sense. What is the current state of affairs - the current state, I would say, is certainly satisfactory. The situation is that any foreigner who comes who has to - I am talking about foreigners from third countries - must prove valid health insurance so as not to be discriminated against. And he will prove when he comes to the health facility, at that time valid health insurance for PVZP, which is for - the less understanding - the subsidiary of the General Health Insurance Company, or VZP Insurance Company, a. s., which, thanks to our amendment to the law, manages all this insurance. So the person will prove himself by the insurance, is given treatment, examination, treatment and so on and so on, medical devices will normally expose according to the methodology - basically it doesn't differ much, I do it almost daily, so you tap it, you simply issue an invoice that you send electronically to the VZP insurance company, which so-called liquidating it, this event, and basically within a few days you have the amount in your account, or the care is so-called fully paid, is not the only problem. Some time ago, the condition was that the foreigner in question came up with insurance, now it's called, I don't know, Maxima, Slavia kind of, cards all sorts of things, we, the paramedic in question did the same thing, the invoice was sent somewhere, and mostly it was so that she returned with the fact that the event wasn't covered, or it wasn't covered in the full amount, or that there was some mistake, or that or that, and in this sneaking way, it grew pretty debt to the medical facilities, the care wasn't just paid. And make no mistake, it could often have been very interesting sums, and they were interesting amounts. We remember this because after some car accident involving four strangers, the medical facility went off the rails because it provided super specialized care in ICUs, X operations and so on, and then the multimillion dollar accounts just ended up being irrecoverable. So the current state of affairs is that we have made an elementary order. The paradox is that I think the ODS was already in 2011 - the chaos was so terrible that the ODS itself introduced this and had to put it in order because it was just such a mess, and the same ODS wants to bring it back into the chaos today. It's just a kind of reminiscence of this horrible paradox for me. So the current situation is that the providers, i.e. doctors, are certainly satisfied even those who are insured because this insurance is not a fiction, but it really covers the risks that normally arise from normal life. Here I would add, it even covers the covid, because other insurance companies, they just didn't care about it at all, and of course, as every medic knows, are interesting sums, interesting things. So the insured are satisfied, the providers are satisfied, and who is not satisfied? Well, the ones who lost their business. So that's why, let's say, that's why we're standing here today, why we're defending the indefensible here, and we're saying that the sky is green and the grass is blue. And I'm sorry, we're making a fool of people. I just can't say it any other way because it's normal... Now he's supposed to be impersonating, is that supposed to be the great good that's coming from the Senate? What's interesting is - I have evidence of electronic correspondence here once, and now I'm going to talk about Russian-language people who exchanged e-mails that the situation will come back and the deal will be renewed because it was a fantastic business, and the fact that it was a business, showed just that the settlement, because PVZP of course, when it figures out, suddenly it turns out that hundreds of millions of crowns are flying in it every year, big money, really big money. Someone lost those, but somebody had them, and today the money is for those who should always have them, that is, medical facilities that provide care. It doesn't matter if they're single or if they're faculty hospitals. So that's the reason somebody's upset about it. That was delicious. And I don't theorize here like many of you. I went through it in health care slowly from the boiler room to the principal's office, and I speak from experience because it was time that I arrived with invoices, as Milan here says, as a medical worker in Prague and went to the branch, but the branch was just the commercial health insurance company in question, which was doing as well as the previous speaker here said, i.e. the senator, as she did well, well, there was just an empty mailbox and the doorman said to me, "No, here only the lady picks up the mail once every two weeks. So I could make a bonfire with those XK bills before Christmas, huh? And there were clouds like me in the republic. Of course, the bigger the device, the fatter the invoices, the logical. Well, someone liked it. Of course, when someone smokes a fat cigar in the Bahamas, that's a terrible junk, isn't it? He's thinking, "Hah, that's what we're doing, business, that's great, that's what we came up with in Prague, okay? And those morons in Moravia and everywhere else, they do it and keep quiet because they're just supposed to -- where are you going to complain? Well, you're just working, and as I described, we've settled the situation. I'm out of it, of course, and I feel good about it right now, and it's not like academic debate, work every day, not like you guys are theorizing here and you don't know what we're talking about. Every day, the patient comes in, a three-and-a-half-three insurance company, because PVZP has 333, I'm just gonna do what I always do, I'm gonna knock it off at the end of the month, and everything's okay, and everything's just the way it's supposed to be. And now we're supposed to change that? Why? Who cares? Well, it bothers you, I say it again, especially the two little insurance companies that lose their business. The Insurance Association? Who's that? What's that? Like they're gonna be, what are they gonna run the registers for? Who's it gonna serve? We doctors don't need the registers. They want business again, nothing else. Your goddamn effort, that's the money you're gonna put on some insurance association. Why? As the register will be established, new business will be done again, like, okay? And it's all gonna get covered up as it's so humane and how we need to straighten it out as a monopoly. And that you don't mind the twenty-year monopoly that the Czech Republic and Koopera have here on employee accident insurance? And that's okay with you? How come you don't mind? That's a monopoly like a stitch and it lasts 20 years. And everybody's worried, that's good. No? Now, what do you want to do? Set up a monopoly, state, what it's gonna be called, what it's gonna be selling energy. So you make a monopoly, and that's okay. It doesn't matter anymore, it doesn't conflict with Brusel, it won't bother Brusel, it will buy energy, the monopoly body. That's great, isn't it? But it doesn't matter here, okay? So, again, you're counting on the fact that a lot of the little ones aren't gonna tell you that they're gonna keep quiet, and you're gonna make a great business here in Prague, and we're gonna get the money back, 'cause now you can see the money on the PVZP. Now, let me make one very important remark, and now, you fellow Members, what you are sitting on the Board of Directors of the VZP, because if you are voting here to damage the PVZP economically by taking it into account that it is appropriate for it to be said to be a fork, you will damage the economic interests and you are also responsible for it economically, and there is already a question about Lloyd's insurance company, if in this case, because we are in the Board of Directors of the VZP insurance to be responsible for decision-making on the Board of Directors of the VZP, if Lloyd would be satisfied in this case - friends, did not! It's just as a precaution, she has two sides of every coin, so it looks awfully lala here, you raise your hand, but you damage it, you take away the PVZP or your daughter's big money, well, someone's gonna have to answer for it, the way he made his decision. Well, you're insured for that, but in this case, the Lloyd will say, "No, no, no, no, you're not insured for this, my friends, you pay for that." So when you press the button, remember what I'm telling you, so you can't say in six months or a year that you didn't know, because now I'm telling you. You're responsible, you're economic, and no one's gonna pay for it, so. And, of course, I am fluent in adding: Where do the profits of PVZP go? Which one of you knows? Well, those who sit on the board of directors of the VZP must know that. Well, mother, VZP, the dominant health insurance company, insures almost 60 percent of the population here. And where do the profits from commercial health insurance companies go? Well, abroad. How simple it is. And like I said, with a fat cigar in the Bahamas, it all looks beautiful. That's what we're playing for. We're playing for an X-Stock million a year to get out. [[10.50 hours]] Is that what you really want? You can't be serious, it's too much. Because I'm telling you, there's even a criminal complaint that somebody's looking forward to re-establishing the deal, that they're gonna restore it, that the money's gonna run again. Because, you know, normal Russian-language commercials, scarecrow, PVZP insures for 20,000, and our insurance company, which will be called - whatever - will cost CZK 6,000. And you guys are still putting in that you don't even put down commissions for those who insure. They're taking 80 percent of the commission. Does that seem normal to you? [[There's a phone ringing in the hall.]] It's a nice play for you. So 6,000 if someone takes 80 percent, what's left for the care? Anyway. So what is it? That's a normal day-to-day robbery. Is that why we're here to push buttons and raise our hands and act like it's all in order, that we're putting it together? We don't bring anything together, folks. 'Cause I'm gonna read you something. There's a lot of false arguments coming out here, all of them. The Prime Minister's statement to the competition authority was before we approved the amendment in 2021: "Dear Prime Minister, let me turn to you on the Government Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended." That's what I presented, my little thing, Professor Adámková. Amendment 7891 was tabled to which he responded by letter. "The President of the ÚOHS personally discussed the issue with the petitioners of the amendment. At that time, we have made a new version that represents a step in the right direction, and this alleviates the previously expressed concerns about maintaining a healthy competitive environment in this area and respecting public support rules. They consider it very positive to change the unification of the health insurance scheme when applying for a visa to stay over 90 days, regardless of the place of application and the shortening of the transitional period when travel health insurance will be entitled to provide exclusively the VZP insurance undertaking for a period of five years. It is important to establish clearly defined criteria for the provision of health care for VZP insurance company, a. s., as well as for other insurance companies that will be able to provide insurance to foreigners after the transitional period of this insurance. I hereby consider my earlier comments to be settled." So that's one argument that falls. As far as the argument is concerned that this must be brought into line with Brusel, that is what I said. Something has to be done, something doesn't have to be done. But what did Brusel say? Nothing at all, nothing at all, that's a completely odd argument here. Show me where it is. You got nothing, you got nothing. So, of course, as I'm saying, those who hurt them in quotes, so yesterday on New York's report - why do lobbyists put so much money in it, that there must be a story on Nova's evening about how someone was damaged by PVZP? PHP is settled by 10 to 30,000 liquidations per month. Of course, experienced journalists find one lady and say, that's all wrong. Is it worth the money to take care of strangers? To take care of our people, don't you put money into it? That's how much money he travels out, and he's throwing himself out on such nonsense in quotes, and there's no money for our people? To regulate energy, or to explain to people how it is or is not? There's no money for that, and there's money for that kind of nonsense to make this media massage? That's disgusting! We're gonna keep going, so look. I have described the current situation, and now, of course, the question is: when the current situation is completely fine, no debts arise, invoices are all paid on time - I say, I do not have it, as one lady said. I get it at the end of every month, I send the invoices, I see when the money comes, so that's the real deal. Then why change it? The problem, of course, is insurance. I mentioned the commissions for the brokers. How can the commission for commercial insurance brokers be between 50 and 80 percent? You guys don't even make a big deal out there? So that's where the insurance costs 6,000, 8,000 a year. How much is the real cost per insured person? If you take what we pay, the state only pays almost 2,000 per insured person, that's 24,000 per year. Really, the insurance costs are how much? Well, almost 30,000, that, we know from the VZP. It's just statistics, okay? So when you insure a large enough number of people, you have to count on large numbers. So how can you offer insurance for 8,000 a year? That's fiction, that's nonsense. It's fraud, it doesn't reflect economic reality, it doesn't reflect anything. So the question is, if you're left with 2,000 crowns of insurance a year, then what do you want to pay for it and who do you want to pay for it? Of course, you want to collect the privileged status of the PVZP. But I say twice -- and paradoxically, it's ODS here -- twice the privileged status of the PVZP has already given it. Then why did she do it in 2012? And all of a sudden, it's wrong? So here we should defend the interests of the state so that debts do not arise from medical facilities and not defend the interests of a few private entities, in this case I think mainly two. Every state wants to control this. Why don't we want to be in control? You want power control, you set up an energy dealer? There will be a monopoly, of course, but it doesn't matter there. Like I said, it's okay. You're interrupting the commissioning that's in there. Of course, the ceiling on commissions is alpha omega. That's outrageous! Because if I order them to collect the real amounts - which should be the 24,000 or 26,000 crowns - and they take 80 percent of the commission out of it, they give you a round of applause. But you'd just do it like that? I don't know. I don't think so either. Today, in fact, all that money goes back to the health care system, because if the insurance system works as insurance - that's what every insurance theorist tells you - then of course you have to give and give. You choose something, but of course you have the fulfillment, and we see it. We at every board of directors have a report from PVZP and we see how PVZP is filling, how much money is flowing through it and how it is managed with the money, so we have a direct perfect control. The question is, when you put it into your life, how will you control it? Well, none. And maybe that's what it's all about so there's no control. Plus, we want, there's a requirement that an insurance company that wants to do this has a network of health facilities, that is, an arranged network of health facilities. It's not like you're in Kittens somewhere and you're gonna break your ankle, just like a stranger, I don't think it's gonna be easy for you to think - Jesus, where I keep... You know, when it happens to you somewhere abroad on vacation, you call the numbers you have, and you need to get into a surgical ambulance or the department where someone X-rays it, eventually responds and fixes it. Most of the time, of course, they have it treated paradoxically - even those against us more backward states - that the network of medical devices is there automatically, logically. But here these subjects that we're talking about, who are so vehemently trying to break into it at any cost, they didn't have a network. They said they did, but basically after experience, when someone had already done the contract with them, he quickly testified - now I speak from experience again - because he found out that they were Czech-speaking scumbags. Because they're gonna say, "Yeah, doc, we're gonna cover it all, and we're gonna -- and then they're gonna return the invoice and they're gonna say, "Well, but, you know, there's this and this." Nothing. Then you write to them and they rely on you to get tired of it and that you don't want to give money for postage and you say, "It's 600, 1,600 crowns, but I really don't have the nerve to do it anymore, I'm gonna pass it off." You'll find a few thousand of these providers across the Republic, and that's a nice amount, that if you add it up and multiply it. You're gonna end up somewhere. It doesn't end up in VZP, it doesn't serve all of us, but only to someone, a few selected individuals. [[11.00 hours]] Of course, it was even so that then many colleagues, especially dentists, because in those dentists it was so that when it just hurts, the tooth hurts, so it just required cash payments. It's a defense of how you want to defend yourself. If the person is not in danger of life and has no death on his tongue, the health facility simply says, "Please, you have to pay us back. After all, this is how they behave and behaved everywhere in the European Union - remember, everyone, when we went out, on skis or to the sea, and when something happened to us, we clicked on the wood, no one cared about the cards. Just pay, and that's it! And if you don't pay, you don't have the money, we'll hold your passport. But we've always relied on it or it and told us something, so some colleagues, some of the medical facilities, they've gotten the same way about it because they've had experience, they said, "Pay or we'll hold your papers." I tried it as head of a large medical facility, so I was told from the Home Office that it couldn't be, that it was against something. I say, "Oh, so in the Czech Republic in Břeclav it's contrary, and when it's in Italy and it happens to Čech, it doesn't conflict! That's not a double standard, that's a double kilometer. All the same! Well, people were just picking up cash, but, of course, when you get a serious medical condition and you put it on an ICU, it's hard for you to ask him for anything, so you're just treating him, 'cause we have to cure him, and when we cure him, what happens next? Then it's just a fat invoice, it's signed by the person, it's got some sort of muffle, it's kind of a spilled tea, and it's taken as a claim. And it just kept going, it did, it did, it did, and all of a sudden, this just vanished. Get it out of the D.O.D., what the claims look like now. Not because it's all PHP and it's settled. And the fact that you guys made one story about some fictional aunt, it just doesn't change anything, because we all know how it is, we providers. So the network doesn't have to be either? And even if it was, according to the IHIS, that money used to be more than 170 million a year, and of course it wasn't completely, completely captured, because I know well when we did it... [[Mr Brázdil is speaking with the speaker, both judge by the view of the ministers' participation, looking at Minister Solomon.]] All right, I almost missed you. So, of course, those numbers were never completely objective at the UHIS, because in those statements, I say, often we didn't put these little invoices at all here, in the UHIS, it appeared mainly behind the large medical facilities, the outpatients completely Dušek, and that would confirm to you that this number is very badly shot because it simply relies on the fact that many of these subjects do not want to deal with it at all, because it is administratively so demanding and the end effect is zero. So you spend your strength and resources on it, as the soldiers say, and at the end you have nothing. So you're gonna ask. I'm just gonna pass it off and you're gonna throw it away the way I had to throw it away once. So what's the registry going to do? Of course, the Ministry of the Interior is already in charge of the registry, and a fellow police officer here will confirm that, so what's the association going to do, why does he start making another register, establishing it? For what? Well, of course, business, that's for sure, the insurance association has tolerated this mess for years! They're fine with it! And they're supposed to be the ones to fix it now? Firefighter calling? That's ridiculous! Then, of course, the cancellation or the limit you presented there, my colleague, that is EUR 120,000. We know from the Board of Directors that this year and last year, there were at least four major damages, which destroyed PVZP, over CZK 8 million. Yes, at least four! Here we go again, big minus. And who's gonna pay for that? We'll all pay for it again, won't we? So why are you putting in 120,000 euros? When you go out, you go on vacation anywhere, how much are you insured for? Not 120,000 euros! All the big ones will tell you $5 million, $10 million, if you have a repatriate that you're gonna need a tin case to get home by plane, you're gonna get at least five, and you're gonna put it in half? Why? 'Cause we're the scumbags who do half what we do out there? Why, I don't understand where that limit came from. At the same time, each of you, if he takes his Visa bank card, he knows he has up to CZK 5 million in insurance on that Visa. Why don't you put it in two and a half, tell me by three, why don't you put it in five? You can't explain it. It's just sucked out. And then the expansion of children with temporary pasquila in public health insurance, when one child is paid for by the state, for the other parent, and a completely different amount. It's a total mess. I mean, we all have this experience, because we don't live in a vacuum, why do you mess it up like that? Try it in Austria or Germany or another EU state as it is, and see how it is there. There is, of course, an elementary order, because this is not possible there, it is an excluded thing to have you come to a foreign country and present some papers there, and at the very end there is this card, as a colleague says, some insurance, it can be made by anyone who wants to. Stranger police are no longer able to verify and trace it. That was the point! That's what it was about to be like, this cool business, and the fact that somebody's gonna take the money, and they're counting on people not asking for anything, and they don't want anything. Which also happens often, but in a lot of people you always find someone who's seriously ill, who's going to have an injury, who's going to get worse with chronic disease, that's the biological rule, and there's no Senate proposal. That's an example that I've been using here since about the '80s, that I can make an amendment to the Law of Gravity here, and you can approve it with your hundred and eighty, but you're still gonna fall on your mouth the same way. [[Laughter, yes round of applause.]] Of course, a discriminatory lawsuit, followed by health tourism, that's a very interesting topic. Because somebody's going to do it -- and now I'm saying, I've got these ads -- scarecrow, 6,000, 8,000 a year, he's going to do it insurance, and now he's going to do it, and now he's going to do it, and now I'm not going to do it from the media, if I don't trust someone completely, at all, they're journalists, I'm going to do it, from my practice, I've been through it -- a patient with this kind of insurance, and she's going to say she's got a problem. I'm saying, ma'am, you're the problem - I graduated from Russian, I even had Russian at university, so I can speak Russian, besides German and English - so I say, but you don't have the problem yesterday that you came here yesterday, you have the problem because I've seen something in medicine, I'm old enough and I remember a lot, you have nine, maybe ten years. [[Mrs Schiller puts a bottle of drinking water on the speaker's counter.]] Thank you. And the lady says. Well, it's been a while. She just has a nine-, ten-year problem, and in her home country either she couldn't solve the problem, or they could, but for astronomical sums. But somebody will advise her that there are such assholes in the Czech Republic that they'll cover you for 280 euros, you'll go there, you'll get a boomer, you'll go there and you'll pound on the first door just outside the Moravia River, and they'll fix it for you and you won't pay anything. And he said, "Ježíš, that's great, I feel like I'm gonna buy some more. [[♪ I've ……]] Well, now he comes and says, "I want it." [[11.10 hours]] And I'm saying, that's how it used to work, that's how it really was. But then maybe the covid came along. And even now, of course, we do or I do, I'm describing to you from life that they have a really chronic problem, like in my field, and I'm saying, yes, that's for an operating solution, of course prospectively, it doesn't have to be right away, I might say, within six months. And she will. Well, I need it early because I only have the insurance for 150 days. I've got it in six months. And I say, well, that's nice, that wish, but since he was a covid and we didn't operate on our patients, so you have to line up, because I don't think I'd say waiting list, but I lead, dispensorize and follow X patients, who also need to operate in the foreseeable future and solve their problem. And they can't get ahead of themselves. How do we get this? There's always a shirt closer than a coat. Each mother takes care of her own child, then she takes care of the stranger, right? And of course they've already found out they have it for that time, but now we've extended it somehow again, so they say. Okay, nurse, the truth is that they have significantly lower demands on taking care than we do, they with each pincushion don't fly to the doctor, but nevertheless in those big numbers it's very interesting. So we have to count on it, even with the health tourism that we actually closed, so now we'd probably have to count on it again, because those options would be open again for the ridiculous money. Because if it's going to be, if it's going to cost 1,000 euros, then it's going to be a different amount. It is a claim, but it can no longer be a source of such business and such advantages for all involved. We were there in the novel when we were doing it for the PVZP, so we wanted to set an elementary order and consider the deadlines. It wasn't the acitation, but we thought: there's a possible compromise before it's done... but it was, careful, I'm warning you again, even to my colleague Kraus, even what you're holding in your hand, that's pre-war. That was all before the war. No one knew what was coming, what was going to happen, and the war started, and I'm not saying that it took off, in a way, and exposed those energy issues. [[♪ Someone ♪]] I think the way I said it yesterday, I'll say it again, we have other concerns. We have other concerns now, my friends, than to dig up a functioning system, because now we really should take care of people, our citizens, those - speaking of insurance - our insured people. Because you know what was in the '90s? You don't know, I'll tell you. Retirement workers at home shut down the heating, turned off the electricity, and went to the clinic. There was warmth in the waiting rooms, social life, chatting in the waiting rooms, having a buffet, having something and not having to drown at home, okay? But tonight, she's gonna be cold everywhere, even at the clinic. Well, I've already told the board, and I'm telling you all laymen here: that's nice to say, up here, that the temperature will be down by two, three degrees. And you know what that's gonna mean at the medical facility? Oh, my gosh. Everyone gets a cold, gets cold. That's what the practitioners get, from the practices mostly then the taverns, something comes up in gynecology, the cystitis, for example, because from the waist down it's gynecology, that, of course. But the chronics get worse, so the chronics go to the infirmary. And the hospitals, of course, they're gonna fall for it, they're gonna fall for it one at a time. Practicers will be entitled to the required care, which will be expensive in a huge way. What seems to be the savings that go down by two degrees of temperature is a tough loss in the finals. But, of course, a man of science wouldn't let that out of his mouth. Well, the unknowing one thinks he's going to save, what good he's doing. And as it is said, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. So if someone had done the job and calculated it, I'm convinced that the savings will ultimately not be at all, on the contrary. And it's hard to express the parameter of deterioration of the population's health, shortening the median life span. These are all very difficult to grasp, which you find difficult to express. And I understand that cutting someone's home from twenty-four, so-called toast temperature we called it in the army, twenty-one goes, but I'm 20, I'm twenty, I'm sixteen, so no one can ask me to do that, because I'm not an Eskymák. [[Cheer up in the hall.]] Because you can't adapt to a regulation by issuing some paper and ordering it because it wants to... These people live under some conditions, and you can't do that day by day. Look how upset we all are, even though we're going straight from summer to winter and from winter to summer. In my life there are only two seasons, spring, summer, peanut, winter, but here in Prague winter, summer. [[Members are laughing.]] But already the peanut is getting sooner (Laughter and applause in the hall, we already have it in August. That was never before, but then, of course, boom, and now take what was cold this September. It's always been said that the heat season starts on October 16th, but now it's gonna come up in September and you're gonna find out that you have to flood 'cause those properties are gonna get cold, those buildings. But I say, we doctors are all watching: Jesus Christ, who's gonna think of this, because it's just going to gradually -- and that's the biological rule again -- that doesn't affect any regulation, no changeling -- it just moves and pours into it. And all of this, of course, has to do with everything, and it's going to be another claim on the health insurance system, which we took 14 billion, by the way. That's just totally unbelievable to me. They've been pouring money in there all their lives, and now they're getting married from there. It's just unbelievable. But I guarantee you, I'll live to see that we'll have to refill the money again because they won't be there. That's the question, that's the rule, that's the question of time. We then calculated that, after the time that has passed, it might not be done, other insurance companies would do it, but those that have these parameters for example PVZP - that is, let the other health insurance companies, all of them, establish their daughters as they did at the time of the VZP, and let them do it on exactly the same principle and the same basis, and that is it. The money won't flow out, it'll stay in our health insurance, it'll meet all the criteria of course, which you're talking about, I'm saying, which I'm going to disprove you one by one, because none of this is true. And that would treat it. They all have those contracts with medical facilities, the network, the available care, not to be paid in cash and so on. And I was talking about the monopoly, and I told you that it wasn't about that. And I'm saying, Kooperativa, Generali, who has employees' accident insurance, no one cares about that, why? So why don't you explain to me how you're okay with it over there, and it's supposed to bother you so much here. Then let's cancel it for everyone. Are we so numb that we don't even see that there's a monopoly on employees' accident insurance? And it doesn't matter, it's been going on for so many years, and it's all great. Well, here the European Commission is haunted, but since 2012, the European Commission has been talking about the monopoly of Kooperativa and Česká pojišťovna at that time, because today it is Generali, and it is for the 2012 Government resolution that this duopol, or monopoly, should be abolished, and nothing is happening until today. And it's not a major problem, for anybody. Anyway. So something yes, something no. Anyway, I'm all for it, but there's no way to explain that to normal reason. And those private insurance companies who are in the Prezidium of the Insurance Association, why are they attacking this temporary and privileged position? It's basically semi-state, the PVZP, but since the beginning of the pandemic, these two insurance companies have refused to pay for the covid. They just had the reservation. We registered it, we looked at it, okay. That wasn't bothering anybody either, no one at all has looked into it, the Association of Insurance should be the most concerned, because I think the negotiations are going out of the ordinary in a huge way, I would say. And again, I remind you again, where are these two insurance companies that yell the most, the profits? Well, abroad! What do we get out of this? Nothing, it's just a business for somebody. And if we are to be righteous and you want to straighten it out, take it from one water to all. So put into this proposal everything in here that will be abolished by the monopoly at Kooperativa. So this is where everything's going to be canceled, but let's just... There must be some consensus on that, and not that there are two private subjects lobbying here, and I say, there's evidence for that, because the PVZP has already filed a criminal complaint against those people, the police are saving that they're already agreeing that they already have it in the Senate, which is confirmed after all, which is why I'm standing here today. If they weren't in charge, I wouldn't be standing here. And so they're in charge that it'll come back and business will go on. I feel like I'm in a bad movie! Where's old Corleone? Come on. [[11.20 hours]] So the way I'm suggesting again, since the insurance of foreigners should be like that private, so let the health insurance companies that are here, the years flying are on the market, the exact same model. It's not like it's hard. Now I don't want to comment at all to everyone, you all got these hysterical emails to Members, senators, those fictional stories, like whoever, somewhere, for God's sake - well, then, of course, someone has to pay that. It's not like someone gets the idea on Sunday night, sits down and starts writing these heartbreaking stories to everyone here - that's nonsense, of course. Someone's gonna make that, and somebody's worth putting money in that by accident last night on Nova's story. I recommend an honored auditorium to look into it. It's all a paid campaign, of course. There is a question as much as possible to blacken VZP or PVZP and, in order to be able to do business again, quasi-business in this area. 'Cause I'm sorry, there's never been a business, it's a normal burglar, nothing else. So what do we need, why are we here, who are we supposed to defend, what are we supposed to defend? The MP is from the word that these people sent us here to defend their interests. Again, I ask you: Whose interests defend this proposal? Providers are satisfied, insured people are satisfied because they have actual insurance, the state is basically satisfied. He doesn't pay anything because he's fine through the VZP. So who's unhappy? Well, those two insurance companies from the presidium! And that's what we're here to defend interests? Is that what we're here for? That's not what we're here for. So at all, I would consider it the most decent thing to just throw a towel in the ring, say, "Please, we're pulling it down. Let's talk about it, of course I'm not saying it's been a while, it's been two years, let's talk about it. Let's try to fix it, improve it, because, of course, everything can always be fixed, it can be better. I'm saying it's a pre-war proposal, the situation has changed. Ukrainian refugees came here before the war, they got the insurance, so to a large extent the reasons have passed, so for me, this is just the birth of a dead child. Why are we wasting our time here? Now we should talk about how we're gonna help people with energy, and not a couple of Rusák here or some crazy Easters somewhere in the Caucasus or something, our insurance. We're gonna spend three hours of nothing here. Yeah, and when I found out last night that I was tangling through D1, that it was on the grémia again the odeska, which twice already to us, again Markův's brother, who's pushing it, why? [[unintelligible]] Of course, this is important, what are we supposed to do now? At this time? Does that really seem normal to you? At least I'll contact you with a doctor. Why? I'm saying again, everything's working. What's all this nonsense? Let's deal with the things that are really pushing us right now, which are burning this state. This is definitely not one of them. And we're supposed to work for our people, not for some strangers who come here to get insured. Yeah, and I'm warning my colleagues again, we're sitting on the board of directors of the VZP, we're not sitting on the board of directors of some Slavia or whatever the names of those Maximy, Daximy, I don't care. So if we're going to defend these interests, that's clear. So let's tear it up, throw it away, and let's talk about something normal and proper that really is for people, for all people, for the citizens of this republic, because yesterday I listened in the office all day, that people don't have anything to pay for the electricity. With us, the heat has increased five times, the supplier disappears, and we're talking nonsense. That's why I'm saying again, let's just say it's over -- it's gonna happen, it's probably gonna come to that sometime, I get it, but if there's gonna be a war in Europe for a while, there's gonna be a five-year deadline, and it's gonna be a quarter off the clock anyway, and we're wasting our time here. Now we're going to have something to drown and light, and before we figure it out, the deadline is gone, and the problem is basically gone. So I don't understand why we have to deal with this right now. So, look, you're saying that the renewal of the competition and somewhere and all this talk, it's not really a competition - oh, my God, what contest? They were rushing to see who offered it for a little money. Did you call that a competition? So they gave you $8,000, they told you, we'll give it for $6,000 a year. I've been documenting this for you, documenting everything, so that's defending the indefensible. I'm saying I can show you the e-mails that they exchange. I guess there's some reason for everything. We understand the reasons, we know, we understand it, but it still seems paradoxical to me that - of course I don't know - it presents the change, Mr. Senator Jirsa, who wasn't even here with it once! He always sends you, and he wasn't even here, that I could, as someone says, say something to him for four eyes. So what I'm saying is, what's this supposed to do, what's it for? Actually, it'll come back, the business. That's the point of bringing back the half-legal one that someone's gonna grease their pockets on the insurance, and then the Insurance Association's gonna take it up and make another register, so it's gonna take more money out of it, 'cause it's all gonna take money. So the insurance's gonna take more money and it's not gonna be for the delivery, for the care. And I say, if you wanted to - on the one hand, you say you're limiting the monopoly, but you leave the commissions that we are, they're clearly there now, there's one, two, three, so you leave them there free. And what business do you have, insurance or something that the broker picks out, 60 or 80 percent? I've never seen or heard that before. So, of course, we were on the board of directors, and then we were arguing about how much we were going to pay for refugees from Ukraine, I say, because this proposal was made at a time when no one knew or at least most didn't even know there was going to be a war. Now basically they don't issue visas for Russians, Belarusians, the commercial insurance market in that sense has de facto ceased to exist. So what's the point? Why should we immerse ourselves in this, because because of the conflict in Ukraine, we have included refugees in public health insurance. They are de facto in the category of state insured persons, so now commercial insurance companies have no room for that activity at all. So I don't know, I don't understand, why don't you just... I see it as a dead star's light that there's still something to come, but it's lost its meaning. That's how the snake uroboros alchemic, which is eaten by its own tail. That doesn't have any practical meaning. If it's a good time to snap your fingers, who are they gonna insure? And now take this, of course, that foreign capital, which represents from my point of view - now, of course, it is my subjective point of view - represents the Czech Insurance Association. That's actually all foreign money, 99 percent, I think. Of course, they have great powers and resources, and they can hire the big lobbyists. I heard names - Beck (?), Poljakov, this is some office of the Euro Office, which as the most involved, of course. Here we have some of us experience with names such as Diviš and Matoušek from the Association of Insurance Companies, which a colleague of Faltýnek here could speak for a long time. Then the White & Case law firm, which advised them to haunt arbitration and so on and so on. Please, it's all business, that's how you work here. Maybe not in our country, in Moravia, but here in Prague it is. And the Russians mainly, they had the biggest business out of it, that's the paradox that you and I all know now that with the Rus it's what it is, and now, of course, it's all blowing out of the open Russians. Well, I don't understand it, but I'd expect you to just put a tip in it and call in a loud voice, "No, not that way!" Nothing to do with these bastards! And on the contrary, you want to open the door for them again? I really don't understand. [[11.30 hours]] There's a Mrs. Leitner sending these aggressive e-mails, which is a pirátka. They get, as far as I know - and of course we all have, we don't live in a vacuum - she's such a troll, she makes those activisms through social networks and so on. Find Strachovka.cz - Find the pages, the scarecrow in Russian means insurance - Strachovka.cz and there is information on 6 April of this year: imagine that 80 per cent will be abolished by the VZP monopoly and in the coming months will return profitable insurance policies. That's great, isn't it? I thought I was gonna pass out on that computer. I'm saying, what the hell did he say in the Bond? Someone here knows more than I do. It's just that you can't breathe. I'm saying what, that they should, that they would sit in the Senate? I don't know, I guess. Again, let me remind you that the PVZP in this position, in which it is now, has already been twice and has done it to the ODS because it has been such a mess. And I don't want to use that word, but breugel, it's a racket, it's a racket, it's a racket, it's a racket, it's a racket, it's a racket, it's a racket, it's a racket, it's a mess, it's a racket, it's a racket. Even the law on the residence of foreigners in 2010 was tightened back then, and that was because of the unfair practices. It was served, I could name it here, some of them were still sitting here, I think my colleague Bendl was here at the time and he was one of the referees, Mrs. Němcová, they passed the law at the time because it was such a mess. And then there was some sort of order in it, and then it got kind of weirdly loose again, and now again, it's just coming from you to come back again - to relax. So that's... I don't know, I don't understand. And now I'm easily quoting to you here: one state insured person is costing the state budget - let's say, today it's probably 25,000 a year, it used to be, two years ago it was, I think, 21,000, but that was before the covid. So, of course, everything else was reflected in this - higher morbidity, mortality and so on, so let's say it could be 25, 26. The average intake of health care per capita has risen again thanks to, as I say, to those factors of 37,000. And of course I say the statistics are clear if they come from any country, even if they don't have the demands, so the disease in quotation marks mainly the serious diagnoses, they are biologically spread, so there is no big difference, so I don't know, on the contrary, eating habits, history, heart attacks, cardiovascular diseases, oncological diseases and so on - it won't be lower than our residents, so I would say, as I have experience here, that due to lower sociocultural and health levels they also have, sometimes there is a need for those third countries to have a so-called relocation shock. Austrian colleagues could tell you that when they come from Muslim countries and so on. Of course, you need to... At first, those young men went, but now, of course, there are children, women, older people, so logically there is... You have the logical swings in that demographic tree again. So now take it, if this were the impact, if you were to calculate at 100,000 people, it's over 2 billion, but for insurance like that, the impact on the state budget would be what it would take. But of course, if it was, it would take $2.5 billion to make that payment. And for taking care, the average, if it's 37,000, it's 3.7 billion. So logically, how are you going to do that? How are you going to balance it out? In order for this insurance system, this as quasi-commercial insurance, which - I say again - once again, Europe tells us that we will come to those, we must not discriminate against them. They're supposed to have the same attitude as our people. And the moment you throw them into the arms of these health, commercial health quasis, just these two, you can't guarantee it at all that they're going to have the same access, the same possibility of drawing, because it's just the financing, so it's not, it's absolutely impossible thing. And now take it, if you were to make it out of the eight - the bulldozer again - we can push through - we can do anything as the Švéd did when they conquered Prague - so we will cancel the privileged position of PVZP in quotation marks. So 100 million -- the lost investment and the cost, which, of course, even the law imposed when we adopted it at the time. And I warn you, if you hadn't voted with us then we wouldn't have voted. I couldn't do that. So there must have been enough votes from you. And I'm not going to give you a tax name here. But if it's canceled, then we actually caused 100 million to accept the amendment that PVZP had to get different things and so on for 100 million. And please, I got that from PVZP. Now that it's a five-year period, four more years, it's four times, so it's 400. So it's 400 million a year for the traffic. It would have been half a billion if it had been five years. So it's going to be four years, so let's say five years would be longer. Well, for four years, that would be about half a billion. The impact of the temporary inclusion of children of foreigners from third countries with a long-term stay within one year of what you want in public health insurance with payment from a legal representative as a state insured as a result of the use of health care within one year is about 102 000. PVZP gets less than 24,000 crowns ideally - ideally. But it's more likely not to pay the insurance. So he can get, like, 15,000 per head, like. Well, there's going to be a negative balance of course, isn't there? About 80,000 for the baby. If it's 10,000 kids, that's obviously a high number, but it could be as many as we don't know how many are coming. A year ago, I didn't think there was gonna be a war either. Two years ago, I didn't think there was gonna be a tornado on Moravia. Yeah? Anything's possible. So all of a sudden, you get into huge numbers like losing billions. And it's mentioned that almost certain success is the discriminatory lawsuit. The state pays for Czech children and for children of foreigners with permanent residence, therefore the legal representative pays for this category, while in all cases they are participants in the same health insurance. So that's another hit on the state budget. And the fact that you're arguing that the positive effect is going to be the reduction of impregnable debts, well, of course they're not now, the argument falls because no one's actually running it now because it's been going on for quite a long time since then, and with that PVZP everyone has it settled, and of course you'll find that out by one phone to friends who run medical facilities. And the effects? 500 to 800 million crowns a year - such a sober estimate - will end up in the hands of a few people, as it just ended every year until then. The foreigners will pay... of course they will be forced, because sooner or later it will happen that they will... we will probably reach out to saying no, you will pay us in cash, because your insurance company does not do as it should - either at all or late or not in full. That's a great trick they'll say, yes, you've provided care for 12,000, but we'll pay 6. It's as common as it gets. Well, there'll be those impregnable claims again. But of course, the profits of the half billion, of the 800 million, so far it looks like it could fit into that billion, I'm saying it's the impact of the war, but it's still just huge, it's amazing numbers. I can't imagine it was before, so it could have been multiples of, like, two. I don't know. But they're just stunning numbers. Well, that's actually the motivation we're playing for. [[11.40 hours]] If we put it on those daughters of other health insurance companies, which, as my colleague Kuchař says, would be - it also seems like a normal solution to me, I say, after that period, and so the money just stays here, in the health insurance system, and they'll be paid for care. It won't be anybody's profit. And once again, it would be an excellent step towards what you have in your programming statement, and I like it, of course it would be a way to commercial health insurance. That's what we should be about, but our citizens, our citizens, that's what we're talking about. I'm saying let's not deal with some Asiat here, because we're not here, we're here for our people, and this should be the job we're doing because it's going to do something. Even the top socialist Austria has the so-called Sonderklasse, you have the opportunity to insure yourself, and we still don't have the option. We doctors are always haunted by the sections that we can't and we can't and we can't and we can't, and it's still half-dark. [[unintelligible]] To say in tax terms, this is, yeah, if I close shop at 4:00, I'm just gonna go cash from 4:00 p.m., I'm collecting money, that's all. And we still haven't done that. And it's you who claim to be the right-wing government - so hell, this is what I would expect of you, and not that we're gonna be messing around here with this and recording the deal to two subjects. So I've summarized the implications for you. How's it gonna be an honor to skate out of this? Well, how? Take it back. I'm saying, it's been a while, it's been happening at some point. I get it, too, but I'm saying, the things that are going on in there are long gone, that's a long time ago. And now I'm quoting here from the pages of the Scarlett. There was an advertisement in April of this year, they even scooped there by the fact that if you had insurance - now it's for the foreigners, I'm talking about it being for the foreigners - when you have insurance PVZP, soon you'll be able to terminate the contract without financial losses and get insurance under better conditions, because the Senate will arrange it. [[With a smile.]] And we still have better insurance than PVZP, okay? So they offered $9,000 for the student, they probably had it figured out, but it's still basically half the amount. In fact, in April, there were numbers from last year, how many insurances are really issued, so it just can't work out, so the only possible resumé is that it's just business, it's not insurance in the sense of the word. And as I'm saying, there's no commission, they have contacts, cell phones, cell phones, the address of Wenceslas Square, across from Bati... Probably a decent troop, as the classic would say. You don't have the insurance money? Take advantage of a maximum discount of 10 percent. You pay half the amount, you negotiate the current PVZP insurance today and then you just transfer it. So they wanted to take advantage of the PVZP and advertise it. What do you need? Bank note, CZK 600 when applying for insurance, will write a receipt, solve difficult cases of visa extension, help experienced lawyers, registration of IP and company... It's just unbelievable. I can't serve that. [[With a smile.]] I can show you... Here's "If you're in your 30s, they'll pay versus 9,000 crowns." [[It shows leaves A4 and reads Russian.]] Yeah, like insurance commercials for those stupid Čech. And Scarface is given here - PVZP is the bad one that picks a lot. This is the insurance company - I'm not gonna give her an ad - but I have an insurance policy here, foreign insurance. I have the names of people, GDPR, all gone, but the limits of insurance - insurance Student: limits 2 million per insurance event, dental care 5 000 crowns, outpatient prescription drugs 5 000 crowns. It's from 1. 9. 2020 to 9. 6. 2021, 12 months, and the premium according to the tariff is CZK 20,000, but the business discount and the premium is CZK 9,000. This is offered for CZK 9,000. So if this isn't for some office, what's its name, which should be guarding this... Well, I can also offer you a Rolls-Royce for CZK 6,000, but I don't know how far you'll get. And that's normal, that's what happens here, great. Is that what we're supposed to applaud, or am I supposed to squeeze a button here? And, of course, they have it in azbuka: "Kompleks medicinskoje sporovanie Slavia". Let's do it again. They put it on the moon, on three, on six, on twelve, on twenty-four. It's a business strategy, I understand. Otherwise, a brief tour of history. PVZP has been engaged in health insurance for foreigners since 1995. That was part of the VZP back then, it was the only one at the time, no one was discussing it. Since 2004, when we joined the EU, the market has become free to offer more insurance companies, and, of course, at that time - because PVZP was the only one who held the normal one because it had to do it properly, logically - so they already wanted 20,000 per year for insurance, and then I think the intermediaries could get it - they didn't get it, but I think the maximum was 25 percent. But then, of course, the competing insurance companies came. In addition, realize that PVZP often communicates with the Czech National Bank, she is supervised unlike others, and also the Ministry of Finance, which of course no other entity has, has and will not, because some registry or some CAP, I do not consider that even a joke. So the scheme is simple. If I provide, I fake, the payment follows. I'm communicating with a client, but of course I have to meet all the legal standards that are there to prove it. Those other insurance companies I might have quoted in the azbuka, I don't know anything about. And I know that because I've been doing this my whole life, and I've been communicating with many of them, and I've been doing quotes for them, and they were supposed to liquidate some insurance events for me, which didn't happen to my injury, and even in 1989, the maximum value of the points that could be billed and so on, and then they offered. And when we compared it to public health insurance according to age groups, what are the costs, I have it from 2010 to 2018, so there was an average of maybe 2010 cost of 21,000 and increased to 2018 in eight years to 28,000. Just the increases were there, that's indisputable. And these numbers only appeared with PVZP, they didn't appear with anyone else - that's very interesting - and now, of course, yearbooks. But how much was the minimum deposit of the CFI in 2021: 28,000 and an average remuneration of 26,000, but the CFI had to pay 28,000, our people, okay? And the stranger-- he's good with nine? Or 11? Where's the discrimination? [[11.50 hours]] You're right, but she works the other way around, or she worked the other way around. It doesn't work the other way around anymore, because it's in order. And if you add up the average wages and contributions, you'll figure out how much it pays to get even. Of course, the state pays - significantly increased the payment for state insured people, until it was the 1 967, so now you have reduced it. The market share of public health insurance - it was more than 10 million people, foreigners - there it was 66 000 people. In doing so, the payments made by foreigners for the extent of the insurance to be as if quasi-public did not reach the contributions of the CFI, let alone the payments made by employees at all, because they paid you even more, nor the payments made by the State for their insured persons. I'm documenting this with statistics. So there's no solidarity, that's all, I'm telling you, a con and just put it all back, I just don't know. This is so ridiculous. We're good to go. I say, here I am again - for one year 4,200 crowns, offering Strachovka, that's in action. And I don't know what changed in such a fundamental way. For example, a vote - 7th meeting, 128th vote, 9 November 2010, and that was when it was voted that order would be made in the insurance. And, as I was saying, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura even voted in favour of it then. And today, the head of his cabinet, Markův's brother, wants to cancel? That really isn't normal! It's just for a psychiatrist, it's not for politics! So I'm not going to describe the situation any more, but in order to deny you any of these objections, I have something else to tell you. I have legal analysis here - and of course the mother - PVZP as well as VZP and renowned offices, it's not even a year old, where they are of course an assessment of the condition that was actually being and which has now normalized with the amendment, and of course I have been evaluated here - it's quite comprehensive material, it's available to anyone at any time - and it's beautifully evaluated here, and from more sources, of course, not only from one mouth, how it's been corrected, and that was at a time when we didn't know - and you're probably at some point, I don't know exactly what date your amendment is from, I don't remember it if you told me about the date that month that your amendment was made in the Senate? [[Senator Kraus' incomprehensible reaction.]] That's over a year, isn't it? Something like that, thank you. So it's actually from that time, from the same time. Here again - it is an opinion and it is a reputable law firm and hardly anyone can blame it for any bias, I do not know from whom we would like it more: "Viewing the travel health insurance of foreigners in the scope of comprehensive care according to the section, according to the provisions of the 180 Act on the residence of foreigners, it is an instrument of promoting the general interest of us as the Czech Republic to protect the health of this group of residents of the Czech Republic, which is able to provide them with access to health care in a range comparable to the health care of citizens on the basis of public health insurance." So now you've heard that it has to be comparable in scale. For CZK 9,000 a year, it simply cannot be completely comparable. It's just not possible, it denies itself from logic, so it just doesn't work that way! And as I'm saying, I understand that nothing in the world is perfect, there are reservations about it, but just in this humpoly way, it's gonna break it over the knee and say, "Now we're gonna push it through and we're gonna put this mess back in, sorry, so it's just wrong. So let's make some, I don't know, round tables or seminars or something, and then let's talk about it. Let's invite even the insurance companies to tell us how they see it, because I believe that apart from the two who pay for these terrible campaigns and those media massages, no one is asking any questions. But we at the board of directors of the PVZP know what the situation is, how it's normalized and that it's okay. So I'm saying a couple of colleagues are in a double role here, but I'm saying you're just gonna bear the responsibility, even economic. I pointed that out to you, it's on the record, so then we'll see what happens next. So that's... Now, of course, the assessment of constitutionality, I say, I have the opinion of the UOHS here. Then there's another opinion from another law firm. Of course, it's always better to have a few opinions, so I have a different opinion available here, but de facto affects and describes exactly the same and nothing else than the arguments that I put forward here, it's basically impossible to figure out, because the fact that somebody made it there somehow, just to make it fit, to suit someone, so of course we know that everything can be done here, you just write down anything. I can say here that white is the lightest shade of black and black's darkest white, and in a way it's true, but that doesn't change anything at all. I say, of course, I'll get ready - I've exhausted you and myself with this so far, but I think we're going to continue - and of course I'm going to give you some more and more opinions that will prove to you again and again and again and after 180, that this just isn't right. We can argue about it, we can disagree with it, but that's about all we can do about it - for now. The fact that you can push it through - you can, of course, about the room, of course I'm getting used to it here - but that it's going to be fundamentally wrong, so sooner or later it's going to just convict you. So please consider, I say, so far I suggest we withdraw. Just download it, do some seminars, round tables or something, take it to the health committee, have fun about it, really update it, because since then we know exactly that it's been a long time since the novel, and from this one of yours it's been more than a year, so let's talk about it. More heads, more sense, of course. We'll think of something for all of us, and especially for our patients, for our citizens, which will be good, because that, as I'm saying, is just the particular interest of a few people. That's not good, and good horses don't fold. There's order in the system today, we know how much money it's worth. We know he's looking forward to it again, coming back -- I say, there's a lot of dirt in it, and it seems like there's still a lot going to be that they just don't pinch and stop at anything. I've heard a lot of things in my address, too. I'm already looking well when I go across the pedestrian crossing - I was also advised, but that doesn't change anything so far. Mr President, thank you for the floor so far. I'll be back in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u7	Thank you. I'll be passing in two minutes, so I didn't think I'd even get a word in. Mr Koten first came forward with a point of fact and then Mr Kraus is still reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to follow up here, and I'd like to respond, through you, to my previous speaker. She's basically most of the things that have been said here, but since the honourable colleague is not sitting on the Security Committee, I'd just like to add some of the information that has taken place at the time of the amendment, which is now valid. [[12.00 hours]] At that time, various activists appeared at the committee or meeting of the Security Committee. I'd like to name them here. He is former Member Jan Čižinský and plus some members of the Czech Pirate Party. It can be said that they really had an eminent interest in it being in this form, which is now being proposed here, because they were interested in the eminent business, because, for example, the brother of a former member of Čižinský defends migrants against the Czech state, so the insurance would somehow be very suitable for the portfolio, the cheap insurance. And the pressure was really huge. They even demanded a speech at the Security Committee meeting at the time and were not interested in the fact that PVZP will finally bring some order and order into this. And here we are witnessing how another activist - I say this intentionally - the activist proposal headed to the House. And even because there are completely different solutions here, we're dealing with refugees and we're dealing with all kinds of things here, changing insurance companies, making it cheaper for them to crash our medical facilities, but we're not really dealing with what's bothering Czech citizens. This is therefore truly a trivial and really active government should think about itself and rethink priorities - from the priority of the reconstruction of Ukraine to the priority of the reconstruction of the Czech Republic and the preservation of the Czech Republic. [[Time, please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u9	Thank you. And now Senator Kraus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u10	Mr President, Madam, Members. So I learned now in a rather emotional speech by a colleague of the previous, what the ODS is up to and wants to achieve with this law. Among other things, I felt for a while that our patients would start freezing in hospitals. I would just like to say that when it was mentioned here that my colleague had experience from the medical facilities of the VZP, I was the head of the University Hospital Brno for 13 years and I am currently also a member of the Board of Directors of the VZP, so I think we have information very similar or the same, and I want to say that this Senate proposal was not created by one party, it was a group of senators across the party. And, yes, we created it more than a year ago after he returned from the Chamber of Deputies, so a number of things were refined there, so this version is actually from November 2021, when he was first ordered in a modified form to Senate committees. I will not, of course, respond to everything, but PVZP, a. s., is not in any way deprived of its rights by this draft Senate Act and will continue to undertake travel health insurance in this area. In other words, it will only have competition - or it will not, of course, we do not know what products will arise, but the rules are precisely defined by this Senate proposal. This means that in addition to raising the minimum price of one insurance event, which is precisely defined in the law, for example in hospitalization, it is simply an episode beginning with the admission of a patient and ending with his release from the hospital, so it is not insurance for the whole year in summary, but it is for one episode. That means it doubled. The PVZP, a. s., has so far insured at a minimum of 60,000 euros. It will have a duty, as will other insurance companies, if they enter the business, to 120,000. In other words, it brings far more certainty to providers, whether outpatient or hospital, that the cost of the care will actually be paid. Until then, no provider had access to the registry to know exactly how the patient or client is insured. And as I was saying, it's perfectly explicit in the law that if it's not urgent care, it's a medical facility based on the information it gets from the registry that it can or can't provide the care at that price, and it can refuse it. As far as emergency care is concerned, whatever history the insurance has, the travel, health, I say it again, for people who are outside the European Union and have been here for more than 90 days, and in any case the medical facility has information, it has to be specified in the register, and that is essential from the point of view of safety. It has a precisely defined approach of the Police of the Czech Republic, Ministry of Interior and Providers, so also the level of security increases this way. So it's definitely not some sort of disengagement of these parameters. Plus, it's been said that they're going to pay for the kids, actually they're going to be state insured, up to 12 months, until now it's been within 2 months. But again, we are talking about children born in the Czech Republic to a mother who has a long stay here, so you can imagine what a small group it is. And definitely, as far as these children are concerned - these are of course known statistics, I don't have them here - so if drawing on the health insurance costs of the newborns in the first year, it's in the first two months, because it's mostly about children who are born in some way damaged, immature and so on. And then the next few months, if the baby gets sick later, it's totally marginal costs. So what has been said here is not, it really is no offer at the expense of citizens of the Czech Republic treating children of foreigners who came here with them on purpose and had them treated like this. This cannot be done, because as I repeat it again, please let us remember that they are children born in the Czech Republic, not brought from somewhere in order to heal here, whatever the disease is.) Then let's say that PVZP, a. s., in order to make some profit and corresponding to its shareholders, is a semi-state, create some profit and be in black numbers, insure cars, insure property, insures only asco. Other health insurance companies do not have these subsidiaries, because at a time when they were established, as was said by a colleague, it was assumed that additional insurance would be created, whether commercial or additional or other. To this end, the VZP mother established this daughter - the others planned it, it wasn't enough, and today the law would have to be amended so that the other health insurance companies could start it. However, the comment on the need to work on additional insurance is entirely possible, it is being worked on. And precisely, the subsidiaries of the current health insurance companies, whether from the Union or from the VZP, would then, if this thing were to be created and approved, go through a legislative process, of course, implement it. So all I really want to say is that we're bringing much more security to the providers here because they're gonna know from the register how the foreigner is insured and what they can afford in the planned care of him brings certainty to those foreigners because they're gonna have more products to offer. And in that law, among other things, all the insurance companies that are going to offer this insurance must completely publish the terms and conditions on their websites and are bound by law to actually provide it this way. Of course, I do not appreciate the degree of risk that such a person can or cannot be insured for, but I have heard that there was no difference between the margin of the insurance company, that is, the possible profitability that counts in the insurance price and commission brokers. That commission doesn't play a part in the insurance price itself, it's just something else entirely. The insurance margin yes, the broker's commission is completely different, and it's a matter of the insurance company if it has the brokers, and if, in the way they are paid, it doesn't affect the insurance price. So I just wanted to comment on some of the things that were said here on our side. [[12.10 hours]] And I definitely have to say that there's no motive for anyone wanting to help anyone, but it's actually a comparison of legal status so that there's a free competition. And you know that the European Commission or the competent authority has already turned to the Czech Republic and wants to explain how this monopoly of PVZP, a. s. will be dealt with, or you know how it is here in these questions that we will either explain that it is conformary to our legal order, which is not, as has been said repeatedly, or what changes we will make to resolve it. Step two can then be a penalty on the part of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u11	Thank you. Two Members wish to respond to this contribution with factual comments. It is signed up with Mr David Kasal, then Mr Milan Brázdil - and then Mr Janulík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u12	Thank you for the floor. I have to respond to my colleague Kraus. I'd like to say one thing. I'm not questioning what he said. On the other hand, no one's talking about the way you talk about insurance all the time, I'm talking about doctors, and now let's not talk about faculty hospitals. Do you know how to account for medical care? You know that? I'll tell you this: by treating the patient, the situation is that he shows you a contract, but you have to issue an invoice and you don't even know if the invoice will be paid. And I was really excited when the new law was passed, so the patients I have reported to me: Well, Slavia's insurance company went around us and we made a contract for the future. So even though it was at the time when he was supposed to be paying the new law, it was being circled anyway. So I'm just saying, besides talking about the insurance company, it should also be in the interest of how it's going to be charged to the individual doctors. And that's where the huge money goes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u13	Thank you for keeping time. I will also draw attention to addressing each other, please through the President or the President. Mr. Brázdil, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to ask the senator if he could probably come next time, because today we can't do it, prepare for us, the members of the board of directors of the VZP, de facto even for you, some analysis of what is at risk, if you would even, by defending it here, if it isn't something else, I'd really like to - the insurance company, the Lloyd, who we're insured with basically against some misconduct, so what that means. You might also be wondering if you're actually defending it, if you're not in any danger, if you happen to get away with it, what the convention for Members who are members of the Board of Directors would be and would de facto confirm something against the VZP. My colleague, Janulík, has raised doubts here. I think it would be a tough penalty. Thank you if it's possible, if it's possible to work it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u15	Thank you for keeping time. In fact, Mr Miloslav Janulík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u16	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'm going to say to the senator's margo that, of course, our time on the Board of Directors of the VZP, we agreed that this proposal is not exactly what I've been saying all along, so it would be an advantage not to say redesign it in some way, but it is possible to go there in the minutes (??) that our opinions were identical - today you say that it is excellent, so it is a turn for me, just a shift, I don't know what happened at that time - but on the margo of what my colleague said to make you understand: we are against faulty decisions, because we are just people, insured, but insurance can also be insured, but it is insured by the reinsurance undertaking. The reinsurance company is Lloyd in London, that's logical. This is how it works in all insurance companies. And when we make the wrong decision to do the damage, of course, the damage - because in this case, the decisions concern large sums, it is not humanly possible to pay for the damage - that's what the reinsurance undertaking is for. But the reinsurance undertaking is already going to do the possible, double role of a Member and a member of the Board of Directors of the VZP, where, as an MP, it causes damage to her daughter, and the damage will have to be done by her mother, so she has taken a negative stand. The Lloyds said they wouldn't do anything like that. So you can ask yourself, the paper, I've seen it, I've got it in a copy here, the position is black and white and it exists. But clearly, if there is any damage to the economic interests of the PVZP, that responsibility is there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u17	Thank you for keeping time. I'll read it before we proceed to the next Mrs. Ambassador's enrollment, apologies that ran out in the meantime. Mrs Iveta Štefanová apologizes all day for health reasons, and Minister Vlastimil Válek apologizes all day for work reasons. Now, please, Madame. Mr. Jan Síla will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, and the matter that should have brought much good and certainly brought about is a source of great debate, and I like to be clear on matters, so I would like to ask a few fundamental questions, and further investigations will be carried out accordingly. I would ask: Brno, a large faculty hospital, has no impregnable debts from foreigners? I checked the numbers. I suppose it must - yes, it does, thank you. Thank you for the correct and true answer. I get it. It's hard. I'm gonna go back to history a little bit. In 1990-1991, of course, foreigners had a rather limited approach, not that they were restricted to health care, but there was a large department for foreigners in Homolka, where I had the privilege of working, and so trust me that I have been dealing with this for a very long time, because it has been almost thirty years. We are talking about some confusion here, sometimes lies that are called aliens from Eastern countries, but I can assure you from practice that every person is based on his economic possibilities, but also a Western stranger, so it's perfectly natural to say, and for us to understand that he's going to ask when he's going somewhere, where he can insure himself as cheaply as possible. I don't blame him. Please, that's common, we're comparing. We open the TV and we have to srovnat it, whether it's mandatory liability or insurance. And, of course, it turns out that there are people or legal entities in this market who want to raise money, but they don't, as far as possible, so all the major hospitals that have experience with it have impregnable claims. Why do I say impregnable? I've served many decades and I'll tell you my cases. I won't appeal to literature or to what anyone tells me. I have a lot of experience of my own. Two hours a night, colleagues who serve, know this situation, the patient arrives. He's not completely acute, he's not bleeding, he's just coming, he's sick, he's a stranger. No one in our terms will ever dare to treat a patient in the world, no one, we'll probably be in agreement. It's nice to have a register, but Mr. Senator, Director, a doctor I respect very much, at two o'clock at night, I can guarantee that it will take years to get into it. And it will be as my colleague Janulík says: the patient has a card on him, and he is also deeply convinced that he is insured for everything, please nicely. He was just looking for the cheapest insurance policy. The insurance might be enough for some very common treatment, but from the treatment that didn't initially seem quite acute, it was only a worsening of the difficulties, the need for gastroscopy at 2:30 in the morning, the profession of a surgeon, and the person suddenly finds out that it is actually acute. Then, of course, things are different. None of our hospitals ever - and I suppose I know my colleagues here - refuse a patient because we just don't. I just want to say that this is an example that has gone a bit wrong, but also a situation that is different when I just treat the patient and he may be there somewhere for two hours to watch, compare the pressure or something like that, he really gets then - either he signs us some kind of debt and something and comes in the morning - and now the big carousel for workers in that department, which is either for foreigners in some hospitals, somewhere it merges with the insurance department, because you are starting, please, a search party. They're starting to see if the stamp is even valid, because really at two o'clock at night, we can't find out, believe me, we can't. I assume you have similar experience. Suddenly they find that the stamp is valid - that's good then, we're already happy, so there's an institution like this, except that no one can track it, so we'll never get an invoice. Hospitals have tens of millions of impregnable debts. I'm warning you, the patient wasn't really responsible, because he was just looking for the cheapest insurance policy and he just came in. I'm afraid so. [[12.20 hours]] In order to get back a little bit by then, please don't just be here looking east, so I assure you that I was there when the gold-volunteer foreign car arrived for the patient, but the invoice was completely outstanding. It just happens. So the problems are there, and it's really a little more complicated than that. The next thing I want to say is, let's take a look at the history that was here, because in 1990 we really were a flagship for this, so we looked at information, data. I have to assure you that when a stranger left us knowingly without paying - that happened too - with some little insurance, we were all very surprised to see it because we thought it was not possible. But of course it's possible, it's life and it's common. We have to count on it, and we have to defend ourselves against it. I would just like to say that the VZP - now the PVZP, but the VZP - always gets a privileged position in a time of crisis. When there is a time of peace and nothing happens, we have other problems and so on. It was the first time in 1995 during the ODS government when we were talking to those very colleagues - at that time I had no idea that I would ever stand here - because this had to be dealt with and it was necessary to bring clarity into the problem. This means, once again, a way to avoid leaks that are here until 2004 and later in 2012. It was so that the Government of the Czech Republic decided by resolution 180 of 21 March 2012 on the processing of the bill, repealed Act No. 266/2006, as amended. This was followed by the decision of the Legislative Council of the Government of 26 January 2012 amending Act No. 266, as amended, and so on. Furthermore, the conclusions of the Economic Ministers' meeting on the issue of 15 February 2012. These documents - and now just allow me to insert them, I know that we have famous lawyers here and that everyone has some legal opinion, and of course nobody is taking it away - but from what has been said here, I feel that there are so many uncertainties and so many problems to be dealt with, and it needs to be improved that it would really be best to withdraw it and work out after the previous agreement. So I just want to say that in 2012 it turned out that unless it was handled differently, those documents would have been inconsistent with European Union law. So the monopolistic position of Kooperativa and Česká pojišťovna, given that the constitution has not been abolished, is still ongoing, even though it already has that it is not right for us to just get things straight. So when it comes to, say, protective mechanisms to protect the health market - because it is, of course, a service like other, although rather specific, but also a service - so usually, and as you can see, governments have done it completely different than ours, they have done it to determine an insurance policy. First, they had a clear idea of how many patients they could go through there, let's say, they could make a prediction. Secondly, what was important for them: to protect health care facilities, because we are here for citizens of the Czech Republic, we are elected by citizens of the Czech Republic as all of you, and we are elected to ensure their rights, of course, by being very solidarity, and with that I think there is no problem. But then there are big problems that unfortunately could not be evaluated. So it's always been because of some crisis situation, unfair practices that have outgrown the limit. As already mentioned here, commissions of 80 percent, low prices and conscious sub-insurance of the person, because many of the insurance companies have it as their business plan, they want to make a profit, and they don't care if you treat the patient or if the medical facility goes bankrupt because of it. Just don't look for any big ethics, she's not there either. Otherwise, to say to ourselves, PVZP has now paid 98 per cent of the costs directly to the medical facility, the other insurance companies about 5 per cent. Moreover, as you well know, since 2020, these insurance companies have had problems at a time when they simply did not pay for covid or vaccination against covid. I can assure you that I served at the IKEM vaccination center, so there were these strangers coming, they were confused, they were unhappy, we were also unhappy, of course, because they had the idea that once they insured there, so the insurance company was serious. She just wasn't in this case, she was just looking at her profit, and they didn't really care what happened to that person. So it was very uncomfortable and sad for me because we had to deal with this. Let's look at some of the things that are here. I have to say that looking at the interest in this issue - and I am glad that you brought the problem, we have to talk about it, I just think that the amendment is simply not to approve it, it is to talk without a doubt, maybe to improve it, there can be a number of other things, but it is not really in this semi-finished product to approve it. It's so raw that even from the way you answered it, I can see that there are many things further to deal with. Now that I'm looking at those benches, let's make it a little easier on the culture. Surely many of you have a classic education and know Chinese verses written on water. When I see an interest in this thing here, I'd take the liberty of paraphrasing. It says: "marno can write into the soul if he does not want to love you. " I'd say, "Marno in the ears of colleagues talking when they don't want to hear you." I'm sorry, but I have to put it that way, because interest is clearly not that big. This is very important, because the confusion, of course, affects health care facilities, takes the capacity that could be used effectively. Apart from the fact that it's probably not a good business card, because many strangers, please, don't come here to parasite on this system, it's not. Of course, many can come to economic advantage, that's perfectly fine, it's done by many of our citizens, and we can't say a word about it, or that it's wrong. But they're the victims of, say, just the hard business. I think that the Czech Republic should be clear on this and should be serious, because that would certainly bring us a lot. Otherwise, I would say that there has, of course, been an appearance, that perhaps something is wrong with some anticompetitive position. So please, the truth is that the UOHS gave a positive opinion on the amendment in force in 2020 after a very careful examination, and believe me, it was a very tough situation when they really examined every word and expressed the experts clearly. Furthermore, I would also like to say that the possibility of intra-Union arbitration excludes not only the fact that agreements on protection and support for investment were terminated as of 10. 12. The Commission therefore considers that, in the light of the above, it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 264 and 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, i.e. that all arbitration clauses contained in intra-Union agreements on the promotion and protection of investments are incompatible with Union law. We have a view here of the Court of Justice. As I say again, I think there is so much confusion here that it deserves a great deal of talking to our fellow lawyers - lawyers, because I can quote this to you here, but, of course, I am not able to say what the Court of Justice was based on, I am not a lawyer, but that conclusion is clear to me. If our fellow lawyers have a different opinion, they may be right, I am not saying that the Court alone has the right to say true things, but, please, nicely, it must be discussed and we must have a clear support in those grounds that would lead to this. Because otherwise I must say that everything that is said here is some personal opinion of a lawyer that I respect, but what the European Court and its Court of Justice have written is crucial to me because it has proved itself, because they have given it as a return, it is a decision, and that is valid. [[12.30 hours]] So I say again, things are changing, there may be a lot of opinions, we can improve that opinion and show that everything hasn't been clear, but I don't see this debate yet. I see a proposed amendment here, which is imperfect, has many uncertainties, some of which we do not have answers, and it goes against the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Otherwise, the contradiction with the law of the European Union is one of the competing legal opinions that I have already said, and we cannot look at the health insurance of foreigners residing in the territory of our Republic, only formally, to want to comply with one side only because I say again that, as the Czech Republic, we have an absolute commitment to our citizens, but secondly, to people who come here in good faith, want to meet all the facts and simply come across them, and that is why we must protect them. So I believe that the submitted amendment is now really a little unhappy, imperfect, unfinished, with many big question marks, and if the question marks are such that the submitters can't even - I don't even want them to answer now, because it's a complicated matter and we can't ask one person to name all the nuances there because they're complicated - so I think they really should go back, rework them, but before - not when he's here on the table - we should really take advantage of the experience of our fellow lawyers, of course the experience of health professionals, patient organizations, and so on to discuss all the problems, plus those insurance companies that might express themselves. Another such thing - which is very smiling from my point of view, but it gives great suspicion that the motives are not pure - the Association of insurers and insurance companies ordered a story on one television, they came to me yesterday. I must say that the reporter was very polite, she tried to get her bearings in the problem, but when I explained to her that someone was complaining somewhere, really a lady who wasn't complaining anywhere else, and I advised her that Mr Ing was the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the VZP. Kalousek, whom no one can impose on the idea that he would want to protect any opinion YES, but is very fair, experienced, and did not get this, did not turn to him, did not turn to the leadership of PVZP these people, so in me it makes me think that it is a bit manipulated, that it is not clear, because otherwise they could have obtained redress - if there is something to correct, of course I do not know the case. But it looks like you're going to buy it - not to say - in one hypermarket, but you're going to claim it to the other. It's nonsense, they didn't actually turn to the insurance company at all. So it's wrong, and as you can see, the cast is clearly such that it would certainly be judged very well. So I recommend, please nicely, I repeat, to return this novel, it is imperfect, superficial and there are many things that need to be clarified - not because the petitioners are not interested, but because the issue is so broad, so I think that it still needs to be taken into account. Furthermore, I would like to say that as far as the surplus insurer's office is concerned, which the Senate proposal has, please, never actually resolved any proposals for any unfair practices. As far as the possibility of cancellation of insurance is concerned, that is a very difficult legal question to ask. Only when I saw the proposal, I asked the renowned law firms, and they don't have a single opinion at all, because it could be the insurance company's damage. And I repeat again what my colleague Janulík has already said, that we really all have a personal responsibility there, so just be careful that - or that in order to accommodate someone - you do not really damage the Czech environment more than it is bearable. Otherwise, extending public health insurance to other groups of foreigners with long-term residence according to some lawyers is contrary to Government Resolution No. 607/2014 which is not cancelled. I don't know, it's a legal opinion, it's a lawyer's opinion, so be careful that you might even get into conflict with this. Otherwise, I repeat again that the absolutely majority, monopoly insurance companies Kooperativa and Česká pojišťovna, despite the fact that there was a significant toe lift through European structures, this still does not solve. So I'd really like everything to be dealt with for everyone. And careful, if we talk about this novel, we can really look at all the problems that are there, and I say again, I think there are so many experienced lawyers here that they will help us somehow find the way, plus that there will be insurance companies, so that we do not commit any injustice towards the Czech environment. And I want to point out that there really is a personal responsibility. So I have to say, from my point of view, there are a lot of questions. First of all, another one, as it would be solved, and I don't really know it, I'm asking, the patient who's coming doesn't seem to be anything acute, but it becomes what we call a million-dollar patient in medicine, it's just that once we start treating her, we get into a situation where the treatment is really so expensive - and I'm asking, I don't find the answer, I just didn't find the answer. So maybe it can be simple, maybe the lawyers will say: Yes, it will go like this, like this - I just don't know it and this question may be very important because I can't imagine how we would now, whether the citizen is originally from any country, please nicely, I really don't just look east, because I have personal experience with the other world - will we send him home? This hasn't happened before, the Czech hospital has never done that to send a cured patient away just because he's expensive. And I would hate for us to take the practices of some countries where this could happen. So that's my question I don't have an answer for. Just as not quite clear, children's insurance is also being formulated there. I fully understand what you said, Mr Senator, through Madam President, but that explanation is your personal one. I want the legal background, the legal opinion, because I've already learned here that sometimes what seems completely simple and reasonable, the moment my fellow lawyers look at it, they'll show me that I'm wrong, that it's not that simple. I just don't know, so that's another thing I'd like to say. And then there's another thing, that's possible - and I can't find the answer to that either, and now that we have it, let's look at it completely - that's the cure of these foreigners who can really undergo some treatment - please, they didn't come here for her, I don't want to pass on that he's coming here because he's going to be treated, people are sick, diseases don't go up the mountains, but people and common, trivial things can prove to be a serious disease. Normal patients of ours would eventually end up in the supplemental spa treatment, we have it normally, and it's not only clear to me here that by the fact that these two insurance companies would want to enter there, and we know that they never provided that care, because if it wasn't, we're not actually treating it the same way, and they had, unfortunately, lower patients' rights than our patients. These are questions that I really don't know the answer to, I think we need to talk about it, and sometimes even from the point of view of the petitioner, it is necessary in order to choose the extra insurance that could, of course, be talked about very consistently, and we need to talk about it, so we need to act a little bit like the Sicilian gambit and what seems to be lost at the first moment will eventually be a win, because there will be a good novel, why not, which will accept all the new things, all the new relationships that are coming, and we can talk about them. So, please, nice, I just want to sum up, I don't want to keep you long. Believe me, the situation was to avoid unfair practices, and actually only copied the practice of ODS governments three times before, and I think that right, because there are different things to be done in peacetime, but then we saw that it was not that the market is taking a completely different direction, and what was always well done is needed, so of course, why not. [[12.40 hours]] For the next one, let's not push all the patients - strangers to want to go around. They are really victims of misleading advertising. They believe that they are insured for care for which they are not insured, and I repeat again what follows. If they are in some countries - I don't want to name any country to touch anyone, perhaps one neutral little beautiful country near us - they won't be treated, and we know that again from the cases of many colleagues. But the moment they're in Czech health care, of course, we won't let them go anywhere on the street. I think I see a fellow doctor here, and he'll confirm it. We will take care of them, but we know that the care will not be paid, which, of course, is also not possible. Moreover, let us note the current situation of our health care, when covid used up a lot of money, and I am really proud that we could provide care as provided. Next, we have a crisis that our modern world doesn't know, so we don't know exactly what it's gonna bring, and economic experts can't actually answer us exactly how it's gonna be with inflation. And remember one more thing. Healthy insurance plans of insurance companies were based on some prediction that was valid three quarters of a year ago. That's fiction today. These insurance plans are actually worth a lot of remodeling today, so we'll see, and it's really playing with the rainbow ball, because no one knows how the supply is going to be. On the other hand, they're threatening small, medium, now even big -- well, let's just say that there's a threat -- businesses are really going to have to cut production, so that's where we're going to get into completely different numbers, and I think it would really be bold to say that somebody knows exactly right now. I don't think anyone knows exactly. So what I'm saying is that the situation is a little tense, luckily not because of perhaps the Czech people, but we have to deal with it, but I am certainly quite responsible for having to talk about this situation, we have to take it under the eye of the present time. This amendment doesn't match what we could approve, it's worse than what we're paying, and approve something worse and unclear than what's really working, what's going through the whole proper circle here, the IOHS gave the right opinion on it, and I say again, more or less it copies certain decisions by the governments of the previous, which are always - be careful, I have to say one more thing for the good, all three decisions, i.e. the ODS government, I know that it didn't rule itself - it turned out right. So please, nicely, here just because this was an amendment given by the YES movement, so to show that you now have a hundred eight, it's really not entirely worthy of this assembly. And I think there are so many experts here that we need to talk about it and work out the novel. I'm glad you came with her because the situation is different, it wasn't what it was. So let's do a seminar, a joint session. We have economists, lawyers, let's invite insurance companies to do this so we don't really run, because we have a vague message here - I repeat - the Court of Justice of the European Union against the two insurance companies, who today of course feel that they might have something from the novel, but please don't argue with that. Secondly, there are not quite clear things that are formulational, it is necessary to work out and talk about it, and in any case we can never harm provided health care, both for our citizens, but also for insured foreigners, and here we could get some damage, i.e. insurance companies, where we are responsible personally, but also financially as persons. So, please, let's agree that this amendment will be returned for processing. Of course, everyone, I think we feel that we need to work on it and do what is best, and I think it will be a solution worthy of this House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u19	Again, Madame, shall I take it that you have made this proposal? [[The Member gestures.]] Okay, logged. And now he's applying for action because he doesn't have a choice to perform right now, Mr. Senator, so please note that it will be two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u20	It's just a short one. I was asked about debts or claims of FN Brno for foreigners. I don't know them right now, because I haven't been director there for 2.5 years, but I just want to say, those claims were always, or 90 percent, at least in FN Brno, created by foreigners who also had some travel insurance that they came from their country with, that is, during the first 90 days, and that doesn't solve this law. So, of course, at night, no doctor is looking at whether this person is insured because the first person will provide assistance in urgent care - that is, of course, and there is no discussion about it, but right here, by the fact that these people are insured under this law, there is some certainty of the 120 000 euros at least, but in those first 90 days, even this law doesn't solve it, and there are the most of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u21	Thank you, and I'll reload an apology. In the meantime, Mr Jaroslav Bašta apologized from 12:45 a.m. to 9 p.m. for medical reasons. And so now, Mr Jan Síla, the enlisted Member, Mr Radek Vondráček, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u22	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the Senate amendment to the law under consideration or from the SPD's point of view, and I would like to... I will not repeat here all the arguments that have been put forward so far. I have several new views, and I would like to stress that the main reason for the adoption of the original amendment was the outstanding claims for health care granted to foreigners, and these claims arose against foreigners who were not insured at all. The introduction of the VZP monopoly was intended to address this problem. These legislative changes were made about a year ago, unfortunately they could not yet be properly verified and not evaluated properly, there was no time to consider their risks, and the Senate is already trying to abolish them, which is a bit for discussion. I would like to mention another point of view on this issue, from the point of view or from the point of view of the state's health guarantee. Why the VZP monopoly? The Constitution of the Czech Republic requires the State to ensure the availability of health care for every citizen, because it is equal access to appropriate, i.e. complete, quality care, as further laws of higher legal force specify. The Constitution of the Republic also provides that such care is not paid directly, it is paid in solidarity with public health insurance, which means for the State to establish and control a public health insurance company. In our opinion, the responsibility for fulfilling the constitutional obligation cannot be delegated to a private body. Plurality of insurance companies increases operating costs, which would be around 33 per cent in one insurance company, which is currently legal, in a country with developed pluralism it is more than 6 per cent. When we look to the United States, where the commercial system is running and established most, the United States is demanding, or the revenues are - about 23 to 24 percent consume commercial health insurance companies, which are 800 roughly. In the Czech Republic, up to 10 billion crowns a year would be saved. Plurality also causes problems with the conclusion of personal contracts, conceals irregularities in payments, the disappearance of control systems. Now let's go back to the amendment, to the comments that I have specifically to the amendment to Act No. Commission Regulation (EC) No 274 of 13 July 2021. The nature of the attack on this amendment is to be supplemented by paragraph 1. 13 in point 132, paragraph 180j, article I, part one, and these are amendments to the Act on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic. The 13th probably reads: "Travel health insurance according to para. 6 is entitled, for a transitional period of 5 years from the entry into force of the Act, to provide exclusively the VZP insurance company, a joint-stock company.' Now let's take a look at the submitted amendment, which was supposed to allow foreign and commercial insurance companies to enter into travel insurance. The government took a favourable position on this position, but in addition the government pointed out in this connection that the administration of the Register of Health Insurance of Foreigners by the Czech insurer's office is a possible solution, but in the current legislation of the Czech insurer's office does not constitute a system element, which was a very careful statement. [[12.50 hours]] I would like to draw attention to a few negative moments from the perspective of the SPD. In Part Six, Amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance, Art. 9 IX after Section 30, the following paragraph 3d is inserted: "The basis of assessment for a person born in the territory of the Czech Republic to a mother residing in the Czech Republic on the basis of a long-term residence permit, until the end of the calendar month in which that person completed 60 days of age, is reduced by half the basis for calculating the premiums, which is the minimum wage." In the original Regulation, double the minimum wage as the basis for determining the amount of insurance premiums. Secondly, the amendment abolishes the limitation of commissions for closing the policy, ergo returns to the game about half a billion a year in the grey zone. Thirdly, the proposed limit of 120,000 euros is nowadays rather a mockery and a sure way to further economic downturn of health establishments, because, for example, in such an IKEM, there are accounts for one patient of CZK 6, 7 million. Annual insurance for the insurance market will have to be as low as possible due to competition, hence a discount and then a commission. It must be noted that there is no obligation here that these insurance companies must establish networks of providers. It's just a blunder and a result: a formality for the police that a stranger is insured with health, but the health debts will continue to grow. Fourth, in the Senate, they came up with a register of foreign insurance with an increased limit, but weighing, if the base is bad, then no registry will help, and neither will the limit. Insurance companies with no network and no public control, but it'll be in the register -- well, what happens. A foreigner will have to pay his own cash in the doctor's office, and the insurance company will not give him anything or a minimum, because the hospital will cancel the contract with her after the first such bad and ridiculous payment. Fifthly, the proposal scandalously abolishes the obligation of a network of health establishments. How is it to ensure that clients do not pay for cash care in violation of the laws on the residence of foreigners? This is approximately CZK 170 million per year according to ÚHIS statistics. When commercial insurance companies sell them a $2,000 insurance policy, which means very low, the person is practically uninsured, or more precisely insured, because the rest or costs that will be over this amount, which the insurance company will pay for such a low insurance policy, will actually have to pay for the medical facility, or, better said, the medical facility will go into debt, while the stranger has submitted to the Ministry of the Interior insurance that he is insured with health, even if it is practically worthless the insurance policy. A register is being established at the Czech insurer's office, a subsidiary of the Czech Insurance Association. This is an association that has defended its monopoly here for 30 years, and now they are complaining about foreigners to the European Commission. This is a non-systemic step because the Ministry of Interior has been running the register of foreigners for many years and the insurance companies are connected to it. In its government opinion, the Ministry of the Interior itself recommended that the register be eliminated, but ultimately gave us a positive opinion on the bill. It is truly unbelievable whose interests those ministerial servants defend as they turn their own opinions over time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the VZP Supervisory Board and I have the opportunity to see specific figures. I also recently read an article about how PVZP's insurance company has little profit because of foreigners and so on. She returns insurance to the system, pays the doctor, pays health care facilities and providers, and when you look at the tariff, all doctors involved know that her health insurance policy holders pay relatively the most of all health insurance companies. The Senate proposal under discussion would cause commercial insurance companies to have this huge profit, and the doctors will again remain černýý Petr in the form of debts. I would like to stress that this is a continuation of the policy of commercialisation of health in the direction of ODS, with which the government of Prime Minister Topolánek began. In 2008, the Ministry of Julínkův granted a licence to the Agel health insurance company, which acquired 60,000 insured persons during the year. Soon after that, she took advantage of the gap in the law and asked for a merger with Hutnický employee insurance company and with the Czech National Health Insurance Company. Mr Hovorka then submitted a bill to prevent this merger. This House approved his bill in June 2009, but on the same day the Minister of Health - again for ODS - Jurásková signed the merger of the health insurance company Agel with the Hutnický employee insurance company, and before the law came into force, she still had time to sign the merger with the Czech National Health Insurance Company. This created the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Corporation controlled by the same person as the Agel Medical Chain, which operates twelve hospitals and more than twenty other health establishments, clinics, pharmacies and distribution companies, laboratories and various companies with medical material. After the 2010 elections, the new government coalition of ODS, VV, TOP 09 and Mayors and Independents abolished the original Hovorkův's section limiting further merger of insurance companies and reopened the space for strengthening the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company and the Agel chain. In August 2012, Minister Heger signed the merger of the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company with the Medical Insurance Company of the Metal Alliance. Although the merger is not legal, the Ministry of Health gradually allowed three donation contracts to create the second largest health insurance company, which now has 1,200,000 insured persons and turnover of approximately CZK 25 billion in three years from the miniature health insurance company. However, the Ministry of Health itself has contributed to a huge inequality between health institutions and between insurance companies. I mean, when it's taken around, it's probably not normal anywhere in the world that one person who runs a medical facility can control a health insurance company at the same time and from the collection of public contributions, or public health insurance taxes, pay for the health care provided to his own health facility, and all of this without legal limitation the possibility of paying for the same amount to different providers, different hospitals. You could call it, that's what started the tunneling of health care in bulk. David Rath addressed the resolution of the VZP crisis due to a lack of funding in 2006 by increasing the state's long-term stagnant payments for state insured persons by 16 percent. The House approved the government proposal. In the Senate then opposition Senator Tomáš Julínek proposed an even higher increase, a total of 25 percent. Shall we ask ourselves why the right-wing politician did this? So far at the end of 2007, VZP had a loss of 10 billion, and then at the end of 2008, all health insurance companies had a surplus of 40 billion. And here's the answer: I mean, health insurance companies were supposed to become business companies, they were supposed to be privatized. Part of the collected health tax, because there is no other way to call it health insurance, should be directed into the pockets of health insurance owners as well as in Slovakia. [[13.00 hours]] Secondly, after obtaining a close majority in the Chamber of Deputies with the help of defectors, Mirek Topolánek's government, with the help of Miroslav Kalousek, pushed through a government statement without any discussion and wanted to go through the Slovak transformation and privatisation of health insurance companies and all medical facilities. The sickness register was in excess of our taxes, so it could start privatizing. In autumn 2007, the government approved a plan for legislative changes in the health sector, which envisaged the transformation of health insurance companies and their privatisation, health insurance, the emergence of university hospitals as public limited companies, in spring 2008, the government introduced seven reform laws in factual proposals similar to those in Slovakia, including the introduction of regulatory fees as income from health establishments. In May 2008, however, students and professors of medical faculties rose up and opposed the new law on university hospitals as stock cards. The universities should have only 34 percent of the shares and the rest had a tent that could have gotten rid of them at any time. [[Stop?]] In May, Members forced Prime Minister Topolánek to stop the privatisation of state health establishments, including faculty hospitals, and to make a public statement about this in the House. Under pressure from fear of the results of the regional and senate elections, Topolánkův's government finally decided to divide the package of laws and postpone more controversial laws for a period after the elections. Fortunately for paramedics, citizens were created in autumn 2009 by the government crisis, early elections, which cost the head of Minister of Health Julínek. But the reform was to continue. In March, before the vote on trust, Prime Minister Topolánek withdrew the privatisation proposals. However, Deputy Marek Šnajdr, a member of the ODS, a true ruler at the Ministry of Health, successfully promoted further steps towards the commercialization of health care. As of 1 July, the miniature health insurance company Agel and Hutnická employee insurance company HZP merged, as we have already said. However, the amendment to Act No. 48/1999 Coll., on public health insurance, which originally came from the fact that the remuneration to the contracting provider is not given by the favour of the health insurance company or the free agreement of the contracting parties, but is based on the legislation of the Ministry of Health pursuant to § 17, i.e. from the document of the type of list of performances with field values and the payment decree for the given year arising under conciliation proceedings. However, this is where the privatization lobby ODS was once again incorporated, as follows: on 1 January 2008 it was an amendment to Act No. 261/2007 Sb. made a subtle but absolutely fundamental change. In the present section, paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: The last sentence of the last sentence concerning the issue of payment orders was added: "The decree referred to in the fourth and fifth sentences shall apply' - and now - "unless the provider and the health insurance undertaking agree otherwise on the method of payment, the amount of remuneration, the amount of advance payments for reimbursement of paid services and regulatory restrictions'. No one will notice much, and everything is so-called legal. This sentence is set out in today's § 17 para. 5 which is constantly there allows health insurance companies and selected providers to detach themselves from the decree regulation by simple mutual agreement. The example of a hospital subsidized from our taxes is clear, so it makes the profits of some hospitals and actually steals from the new way. Health insurance companies remained fully dependent on the public funds required by the insured, the ergo law was fulfilled in the letter, but at the same time the health insurance companies gained contractual freedom to spend them as if they were private enterprises. The existing legal situation directly encourages health insurance companies to selectively favour the public money of selected health entrepreneurs, usually with ties to the decisive functionaries of insurance companies or to the ruling political guarantee. The semi-market nature of this private enterprise with public money is extremely prone to corruption. To citizens - insured people was filled with a standardization saying: What is yours, it is my - mandatory health insurance contributions - and what is mine, it is none of your business - the lack of public control over the conclusion of individual contracts with providers. There has been a system where we currently have public legal health services under the law, but private companies have introduced their own capitalism into it. The current state is following. As I said, in the view of the IOHS, health insurance companies are not subject to competition law which would otherwise prevent a market dominant undertaking or more undertakings acting in agreement with selective and discriminatory access to contractual partners. Let's see what we can't control right now when private entities are running in no one's zone, where only price orders apply to them. When concluding contracts and setting up payments, they are not bound by public procurement law, which would otherwise ensure a transparent selection of at least contractual partners. After the 2005 amendments, 2006 citizens no longer have the right to choose directly or to run for office in health insurance companies, which would allow democratic control over the behaviour of their officials. When setting annual remuneration, health insurance companies are no longer bound by the regulations of the Ministry of Health, unless otherwise agreed with the provider. All it takes is mutual agreement between both parties and regulation is useless, because the amendment sets really valid prices. The pint is pulled out by it, the finances flow freely through a system from which it drips only a little, but still, and it accounts for approximately 30 to 40 billion crowns a year. One leaky place could have blocked the corrected amendment, see the legal regulation that was fought for in Parliament in 2014 and which our newspaper was silent about. In Article 17, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5, which I mentioned, is added to the following text: "The price amendment requires the consent of the Ministry of Health to its validity.' This amendment, with an elaborate and explained solution, was brought back to the House by Mr Hovorka in September 2014. At the meeting of the Health Committee, his proposal was not accepted. He proposed ongoing control of the contractual arrangements, the most important and essential ones, with hospitals where the biggest money is spent. Then perhaps there are other important additions among those who operate medical facilities that have been tied up by outsourcing from hospitals. These are very important from a control point of view. Overall, experts estimate the control of a maximum of 300 providers for which additions would need to be checked. Only two Members voted for the ČSSD to tighten the control. Who do you think it was for the benefit of? Furthermore, the budgets of regional health centres and health institutions, the privatisation of laboratory activities and so on have been continuously restricted. [[13.10 hours]] The worst, I think, was that when Mirek Topolánek's government handed over the scepter to Prime Minister Fischer's government, it approved participation in joint ventures with Primecell, a. s., further approved the purchase of shares in strange companies of the National Tissue Centre, a. s., Brno, and Center of Cellular Therapy and Diagnostics, a. s., Ostrava. Companies are supposed to develop tissue engineering and tissue production. Firms with zero resources received money from European funds for 0.5 billion crowns and built a centre in the University Campus building in Brno. According to Mr Marek Šnajdr's proposal, this health sector was to open up to business. This is enough to amend the Act on the safety of human tissues and cells, creating an intermediary between the tissue bank of faculty hospitals and the medical devices that the tissues need. This middleman earns money from what was previously common wealth to all of us as donors of bone marrow tissues for transplantation and so on. Another example of lobbyist change of laws and tunneling of VZP intermediaries is the well-known IZIP and so on. After the elections of 2010, after the reign of Petr Nečas, Miroslav Kalousek selects Dr. Leoš Heger as head of the Ministry of Health and he is pressed against the wall by the true rulers of the Ministry, Marek Šnajdr behind the ODS, Petr Tluchoř behind the ODS and the advisor of Minister Kalousek, Mr. Rudolf Zajac. The last appointment was made by the Minister of Health in Dzurindův's government as a successful privatizer of Slovak health for Penta. The ODS government has prepared so-called reform laws, a law on public health insurance, health services, specific health services, medical rescue services. The denominator of these laws is the limitation of the constitutional rights of citizens and the limitation of the claims of insured persons from health insurance. Laws impose unreasonable administrative obligations on doctors, as well as high to liquidation sanctions, including the withdrawal of licences to private doctors. These laws prove the resignation of the Ministry to any management and coordination function in the health sector and open up free space to medical chains, which will quietly dominate the entire Czech health care system in the foreseeable future. New laws bring no standards or excesses. Instead of entitlement to free care, they provide an obligation to pay for anything that is not the cheapest option of the care provided. The cheapest option is not specified anywhere. Patients can only dream of better rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u24	I'm coming, I'm coming. It's up to you to know whether the senators who are doctors or hospital directors have any idea what the association has given them and what they actually advised Mr. Senator Jirs, or - I don't want to touch anyone's conscience - have written directly. It seems to me that this whole amendment, which has been tabled by the Senate to us in negotiations, has no other task but to continue the commercialisation of health care by giving the authority to insure foreigners to commercial insurance companies. Please, let us stop the constant unsystematic invention of obscure solutions that will move the problem of funding health care to the state budget. Isn't the aim of public funds now rather to stabilise rather than privatise profits? The arguments about monopolies and etatisation are not relevant in light, for example, of the current, as has already been mentioned by the government, of the establishment of a state energy trader. I think I may have explained the reasons why this Senate proposal needs to be rejected. In this form, it is unfortunately timed, dangerous, it goes against the interests of the state, health professionals, foreigners and supports only an unfair market. The petitioners themselves stated on the Board of Directors that they realize how risky the proposal is and will do everything for withdrawal. If, after all, the House decides to let go, then the Senate proposal needs to be completely redesigned and amended and prepared a solution good for the state, health professionals, foreigners and fair - I stress fair - the market, among other things, to address the monopoly of accident insurance, which is the only real problem for the European Commission. I would like to conclude by proposing that this amendment be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u25	Thank you. It's been marked. And now Mr. Jiří Mašek has made a point of fact. I will add an apology to what has come in the meantime: Mr Jan Bauer apologizes for health reasons throughout the day. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes to actual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already reported my de facto before the speech of my fellow Síla, the President obviously did not notice, it was in response to the Senator, who said here as an experienced doctor - yes, we do not at the beginning in providing acute care to find out whether the patient is or is not insured. That's true, we're not, and one of the reasons is that we don't have anything to find out fast. And it is this perhaps critical monopoly of PVZP, which, by the way, is supposed to end in four years, and it is in these turbulent times when a lot of foreigners are moving, and many of them have a longer stay than those 90 days, and this insurance solves it, that it offers that there is a unified database, and it would be worth considering that all medical devices have a quick entrance there and that they know right at the start of providing acute or life-saving care, whether or not the person is insured, because we doctors know that the care, the next procedure, can be differentiated in some way. We will certainly provide life-saving care, and some other suspensive procedures can then be dealt with depending on whether or not the person is properly insured, for example by transporting it to the country from which the person comes. So what I would see right now is that it would be better not to change it and make it possible for medical devices to have easy access to the Home Office's insurance database, and there may not be any details, but only if it is, or if the person isn't insured. A colleague of the Force, through the President, said that the expected registers, which should deal with this under the Ministry of the Interior, did not really work. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u27	Thank you, thank you for the heads-up. And now we return to Mr Radek Vondráček, who will be prepared as another Mr Karel Haas. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u28	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will look at the issue a little differently, but of course I will not forgive myself to warm up my soup, because the subject of today's discussion is the Senate proposal for an amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners, and I will not forget to say that I am very interested in the lobbyist footsteps of this press, which has arrived to us, and I can only wait to say that I have submitted a proposal for a lobbying law at the beginning of the parliamentary term. And if this was adopted and the coalition had not been brought back to rework - the coalition does not yet have its own, and President Výborný knows it and is leaving - so we could read about the origin of this law, because with all due respect to a fellow senator, it certainly did not happen that a senator would wake up in the morning, look out the window and say to himself: So I will prepare and write an amendment to the law on the residence of foreigners. According to our information, which has not been refuted here, as far as I know, indeed this regulation or what we are discussing has been written by the Czech Association of Insurance Companies. It's basically classic lobbying, and there's nothing wrong with classic lobbying. It's just the lobbyists who want to push their economic interests. Lobbing is not a lobbying problem, lobbying is a problem for those who are being naughty. [[13.20 hours]] And I confess that I do not consider it worthy of this Chamber of Deputies that we are debating this press because we know what its objectives are, we know what it is, and we have heard it in all the contributions of my previous speakers, my colleagues. I was even represented here by my honored colleague Věra Adámková, when she even mentioned the decision of the European Court of Justice. I would just like to draw attention to the legal side of the matter in relation to the discussion of this press. For one thing, it is a matter of monopoly status, whether or not it is in accordance with Union law, whether or not it is in accordance with the administrative and legislation of the Czech Republic. It has also been quoted here or referred to the expression of the Antimonopoly Office of two years ago, which actually arose in connection with the discussion of the amendment. I can say from a legal point of view that maybe it wasn't the ideal way that the amendment was adopted. It was in the form of an amendment and, of course, had a major impact on private insurance companies. But again, I have to say that this was the way in the right direction, because it already turns out that PVZP has removed the vast majority of unfair practices and that the amendment to the law has made sense. This has already been said by my colleague Janulík: let us not create the impression that the privileged status of PVZP is unprecedented in the Czech Republic, because there really is insurance for employers with liability for damage caused by employees, where the monopolistic position is actually two dominant insurance companies - Kooperativa and Česká pojišťovna - and no one is going to stop at it, with a premium of 10 billion per year, whereas we are talking about 1 billion for the health insurance of foreigners, if I have the right information. What is one of the main arguments of the petitioners or what do they point to? To imminent arbitration in connection with the law. And I say again that this is a matter of law and that we should look at it within the constitutionally-legal committee, and when the moment comes after the debate and when the President will ask us, I therefore advise that the constitutionally-legal committee should be another committee, not a guarantee committee, but another committee in which the question would be discussed. We have that space on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I have no information that we are now given a large number of prints. If there's no sense in shortening the deadline, we'll have time for that. And I always appreciate every debate, because we're really dealing with it on the constitutional law committee, kind of impartially, we're dealing with it really on the legal line. And I would like to invite a representative of the Treasury to explain to us better what always appears in the indications in the argument, why we should accept this amendment, which means that there have been some arbitrage announcements, there has not come up what the legal side of the matter is. Here it is said that there is perhaps a contradiction or there is no contradiction with European Union law, for these reasons, that the insurance legislation contained in Section 180j of the Act on the residence of foreigners as a provision of public law is part of the immigration policy of the European Union and belongs to an area of freedom, security and justice, not to the free movement of persons, services and capital. The competence of the European Union shared with the Member States in this area allows for the creation and adoption of legally binding acts both of the Union and of the Member States, while Member States exercise their competence to the extent that the Union has not exercised it and to the extent that the Union has decided to cease exercising its power. This is Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR. Article 2 (1) (a) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of Paragraph 180j of the Act on the residence of foreigners regulates the issue of travel health insurance of foreigners for the purpose of the authorisation of long-term stay, or the decision to extend it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 288 Treaty on European Union. In addition to the requirement relating to the scope of risk coverage, the Directive does not lay down any other requirements for this type of insurance or insurer and is therefore fully within the competence of the Member State to adjust other conditions for insurance of foreigners for the purpose of residence proceedings. Comprehensive health insurance of foreigners pursuant to § 186j para. 6 The Alien Residence Act does not constitute a product which would be provided under insurance services intended for nationals of the Member States of the European Union. PVZP is a private law entity entrusted by law with the performance of a special task - the implementation of travel health insurance for third-country nationals who are long-term residents in the Czech Republic in order to meet the requirements of Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The creation of instruments that are capable of protecting the health of long-term residents is fully consistent with the European Union's policy and cannot be favoured against the protection of human health and the availability of health care by an interest in the protection of the internal market. So much for the legal side of the matter. I have noticed somewhere that according to the Ministry of Finance, the insurance companies that feel damaged by the PHP monopoly estimate that over a period of five years, their damage may be up to 1.5 billion, which is a lost premium of 1.3 billion and 255 million for a failed investment. The monopol nature of insurance is no novelty in the Czech Republic. I already talked about it. I will skip the historic excursion here because we are running out of time, too, and I would like to keep most of these arguments for discussion in the constitutional and legal committee if my proposal is supported, for which I thank everyone present and absent. We would like to focus there on the issue of an agreement on investment support, because the Ministry of Finance has reportedly received three announcements of the existence of a dispute and a call for friendly negotiations in the sense of agreements on the protection and promotion of investments. The announcements were specifically submitted by Slavia pojišťovna, a. s., Maximus pojišťovna, a. s. and ERGO pojišťovna, a. s. In total, insurance companies under international arbitration are allegedly applying damage of CZK 1 billion for the time being. However, we could make it clear on the constitutionally-legal committee whether it is or not part of some coercive action by the opponents of the law that we adopted here a year and a half ago, because it is hard to imagine that other commercial insurance companies would somehow voluntarily give up compensation if they were created, as they claim. By adopting the Senate Bill, however, it could arise in the anticipated cancellation of the contracts of 250 million to the loss of the prescribed premiums of 600 million and we are talking about a joint-stock company that belongs to VZP and VZP belongs to all of us - this is a state insurance company, a dominant insurance company on our market - to the detriment of 300 million over the five years and to the failure of investment currently estimated at 30 million. As far as disputes are concerned, the position of the Czech Republic is quite problematic here, because both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health had a disagreeable opinion when adopting the law, and it is precisely the fact that the adoption of the law will violate European Union rules. As regards international arbitration, it is necessary to take into account the fact that agreements on the protection and promotion of investments as of 10 January 2014 are terminated. 12. 2021. It is good to mention exactly what my colleague Adámková has already said here that the European Court of Justice issued a decision on 6 March 2018 stating that the arbitration clauses in the agreements for the promotion and protection of investments concluded between the Member States of the European Union are incompatible with the Union law for the conflict with public policy. This is the judgment of the Court of Justice of Achmea versus Slovakia that the doctor spoke of. In response to the decision, Member States have issued a declaration stating that they will jointly terminate all bilateral investment contracts by the end of 2019 and that, following ratification of the agreement by the Member States concerned, bilateral intra-Union agreements on the promotion and protection of investments concluded between the Member States of the European Union which have signed the Agreement will be terminated. Member States which have not signed the Agreement shall terminate bilateral agreements on support and protection concluded by the Member States of the European Union bilaterally. [[13.30 hours]] The above leads to a complication with regard to the performance of a potential arbitration award in the Czech Republic, so it can be considered that the conduct of arbitration proceedings in this matter can primarily serve to influence the opinion of the public and political representatives and, somehow, create some pressure on us to decide, in this context, the proposal that is presented to us today. This consideration is also supported by the fact that proceedings before an arbitration tribunal are to be conducted, although it is both time and financially more demanding, and since the competent authority for the protection of foreign investment is the Ministry of Finance itself, which is, say, currently opposed to the legislation. This is therefore, from my point of view, a possible purposeful argument, which serves to support the opponents of the monopoly. But the monopoly in quotation marks, because a fellow Member Janulík has already said it here, nothing prevents other health insurance companies from also starting stock companies and doing business on the market, and it would be Czech entities that would somehow generate profits in the Czech Republic and that money would return to the health system. It is therefore proposed that the Act on the residence of foreigners be amended rapidly to abolish the VZP monopoly and thus bring national law into line with EU law. This would put an end to the further increase in claims by insurance companies. This is the main thesis that a group of senators are probably coming up with, and we would really like to take a look at it within the constitutionally-legal committee, and we would like to see if there really is a discrepancy with EU law, or if it is just a firm disagreement, and we would like to have concrete information about the arbitrations. I think this discussion belongs on the floor of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The Czech State should ensure the availability of health care for foreigners so that it does not endanger accessibility for its own citizens, and as far as I know, PVZP seeks to make the foreigner pay at least about as much as the Czech citizen pays. And just so you know... I think my colleague Janulík also said that a foreigner pays an average of CZK 22,000. When we average the contributions of Czech employees, employers, we get to CZK 64,000 per insured person. With regard to the new proposed amendment, in the context of the commentary procedure, I would like to draw attention to the objections which I suspect were of the Ministry of the Interior, which concern the register, the new register, which is to be managed by the Czech Insurance Office, which according to the Ministry of the Interior represents a highly non-systemic element, because "The Czech Insurance Office is a legal entity established under § 18 para. 1 of Law No. 168/1999 Coll., on vehicle liability insurance, as amended, and these provisions define the ČKP as a professional organization of insurers, i.e. insurance companies entitled to offer liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle. The ČKP's rights and obligations are established, the legislation concerns only the issue of liability insurance caused by the operation of the vehicle. Its activity in the field of health insurance was not foreseen. The proposed regulation also completely ignores the management of the Central Insurance Register under Section 27 of Act No. 592/1992, on public health insurance premiums, where data on health insurance of foreigners should appear to be included. Nor can it be ignored that the exchange of information in the context of health insurance is carried out between several parties, which are providers of health services, health insurance companies" - i.e. including VZP, are legally entrusted with specific tasks, such as the management of the Central Insurance Register - "supervisor bodies, insured persons and pharmacies." [[of which:]] The involvement of ČKP as another party would mean the need for coordination of related administrative processes, including information systems, which would probably mean additional additional costs." So many quotes from the Ministry of the Interior. I do not think that in a democratic rule of law it is really possible to initiate a change of law only because of the discontent of some private entities with valid and effective legislation, without due consideration and, above all, a legitimate justification for these changes, and this is currently happening to us. For example, I don't understand why we put the press on hold. Why do we have to discuss this press today in a situation where we voted on about 50 opposition proposals yesterday and it was really about the energy crisis, was it about inflation? We have a second reading of the budget next week. We really have quite different things to do here than this law, and so I'm asking myself, who is the benefit of this process? I think that orientation on this issue, you've heard it now from the doctors, I've outlined to you that it also concerns lawyers, that it concerns EU law, that it concerns arbitration, and that's why I'll be very happy to see if most of those present are here, that's the 81 who would vote in favour of getting it into the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Haas is now signed in and Mr Jan Kuchař will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u30	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I, my dear colleagues, have only entered into the debate during the debate, and now I will use the words, through Madam President, the honourable previous speaker, Radek Vondráček, about lobbying. I was forced to do the show when I heard him lobbying here - and I'm gonna say it hard - for maintaining the monopoly. I didn't expect to hear such a massage for the monopoly here, and I have prepared for you, please, eight specific factual reasons, are mostly legal, even that is the answer to a fellow speaker. Eight reasons, because I would hate for this House to sound just voices supporting the monopoly. So eight specific reasons why today's proposal is the only possible and correct one. One. My colleague Radek Vondráček, through Madam President, mentioned legal aspects. Everyone who knows the current monopoly situation knows that the current situation in the Czech Republic is illegal from the point of view of international obligations, contractual obligations of the Czech Republic. Why? Because we, like the Czech Republic, have concluded and have acceded to the Treaty, one of the EU's founding treaties, to the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The current monopolistic state is contrary to Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 49 TFEU, 56, 102, 106 et cetera. Indeed, the existing monopoly is illegal from the point of view of the international obligations of the Czech Republic, see the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and I cited specific articles. Two. Even if - this is for European hoodlums - even if we were not a Member State of the EU, the current state of the monopoly is contrary to what we should all be honoring, contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, with Art. 26. You know what anchors the article. 26 of our Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms? Right to business. Contrary to this article, we cannot prohibit anyone in the Czech Republic from doing business, which has undoubtedly become a monopoly. Reason ad 2. Reason ad 3. We've heard a lot of hauntings about how market competition in foreign health insurance produced debts for health care provided to foreigners. Please, I have hard data from the top five faculty hospitals in 2021. Do you know how many - for those who were so frightened - did you know the percentage of claims on insured foreigners from the total claims of the five largest faculty hospitals in the Czech Republic in 2021? 1,2%. So please, who's haunted by the fact that the health insurance of foreigners and the market competition produces debts in it, either doesn't knowingly speak the truth or doesn't have the data. I am really able to provide the data for the five largest faculty hospitals in the Czech Republic in 2021. The volume of claims per cent of the package behind insured foreigners was 1,2 %. Fourth reason. If someone is haunting the competition in the insurance market again, please remind me that insurance, insurance distribution, is a legally very strictly regulated sector supervised by the Czech National Bank, let a very strict insurance law, let a very strict insurance and reinsurance distribution law, let a very strict and robust European insurance regime under the Solvency II regime. Reason ad 4. [[13.40 hours]] Reason ad 5. Imagine that even those who criticize the competition here on the insurance market live and use the benefits of what demonopolization brings. Since 2000, we have had a demonopolized mandatory guarantee in the Czech Republic and since 2000 all motorists in the Czech Republic have been living off the advantages of competition. The best market prices, competition and the best possible products bring competition and, on the contrary, this puts the monopoly to death. Reason ad 5. Reason ad 6. There are a number of things in the bill - and I do not deny that the situation before the monopoly was ideal - so I appreciate the proposal and mention here at least three to four things that the draft law brings into the principle of health insurance for foreigners very well. Until then, no one has dealt with the increase in minimum premium limits. Now they are increasing to 120 000 or to a limit equivalent to EUR 120 000, which is CZK 3 million, which, in turn, affects essentially the dominant majority of healthcare provided. (b) for reasons of transparency, the amendment introduces the publication of insurance contracts and insurance terms of insurance companies on the web, i.e. public accessibility, creates a Health Insurance Register accessible not only for health care establishments, but for the Ministry of the Interior, for the Police of the Czech Republic and so on, placing children of foreigners under 12 months of age into the public health insurance system. These are all very positive things that move foreign health insurance forward. Reason ad 6. The reason for ad 7, this is for a colleague, an honourable and honourable colleague, Mrs Adámková, again through Madam President. This mentioned that the adjustment effective from August 2021 was very well prepared. Please, of course that doesn't correspond to reality at all. Monopol was introduced, let us put it bluntly, thanks to the amendment of 6 May 2021, thanks to the amendment of then and contemporary fellow Member Miloslav Janulík, so it was not a government proposal. Of course, there was no monopoly in the government's proposal for the then amendment to the Alien Residence Act, so the argument that the monopoly was a step that would have been discussed by a comprehensive legislative process, including the government, does not apply. And the last point, because this has also been mentioned here - and again either the people who use this argument are not telling the truth, whether consciously or unconsciously - was mentioned here the opinion of the Office for Competition Protection, which actually arose last year in connection with the amendment. It's an opinion so you can track it down, from 15. 4. 2021, reference number - I like facts - 12545/2021/440/LCI. Here it was argued that the ÚOHS had expressed its opinion on the amendment in such a way that the amendment was not contrary to the principles of public support. Then please read the statement. The UOHS expressed itself exactly the opposite. What happened to the UOHS was that the proposed amendment constituted a contradiction with public support, a contradiction with the dominant position, and what happened was that the President of the Office for the Protection of Competition in his individual personal statement, not in the official documentation and official documents of the UOHS, expressed himself differently. For what reason, I'm not going to comment. That's the last argument. Thank you for your attention, please support this only sensible proposal and I hope that this House will not support monopolies in any field in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before Mr Jan Kuchař gets the opportunity, we have a factual one. Mr Radek Vondráček, Robert králíček, and then Mrs Věra Adámková, came forward first. Unfortunately, Mr Síla has volunteered from his post, so these Members have priority because they have applied electronically. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u32	I'll be very brief. I want to thank my colleague for the contribution that he gave us here, say, one of the competing legal opinions. I, in turn, can argue that this is an instrument of regulation in the general interest, that unfair practices have indeed been eliminated, that there really is an interest in some public health, that insurance for foreigners is not just a formality, that it is really drawn, and we need to focus on that. The monopoly, which does not need to be a monopoly which is currently a genuine monopoly, is or is not contrary to Union law? There's just two legal opinions here. I think this debate will just suit the constitutionally legal committee, and I hope that my colleague will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Robert králíček, Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u34	I would like to respond to the two things that have been said here by my previous speaker. I would like to ask him, through Madam President, whether, if he has the hard data, if he could present to us what volume, what amount is 1,2 %, because it may be quite essential to talk about what business it is, because presenting 1.2% is misleading. The second question is, if you're talking about the fact that the research involved five faculty hospitals, then in this case, I'm wondering how many percent of these patients it is so that it isn't a slim percentage again, and so that we can talk about the numbers relevantly, because both data were misleading for me. The last reaction is - well, you say that in the last parliamentary term, this matter was modified in quotation marks by a mere amendment by my colleague, Mr Janulík. What's wrong with that? You are also making fundamental laws, such as the Civil Service Act, by parliamentary proposals, not by government, so it doesn't matter. If the amendment is of good quality, does it complement it, why would Mr Janulík not submit it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u35	Thank you. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I will also return to what was said by the honourable colleague Haas. My colleague, I would begin with one sentence: you did not listen. When I was talking here, I was saying that we have a lot of great lawyers here that I count you to, so there's certainly a lot of legal opinions there, and they were before that. After all, a naive person would think there were no other legal opinions. I guess we agree on that. So please nicely, I was saying more or less what you said, that there are many legal opinions. It is necessary to clarify this in order for there to be a greater sense of certainty - because I have already taught here the term of legal uncertainty, which is certainly not - but in any case I would just say what my colleague králíček has already said: the parliamentary amendment is full, in which I think we agree, passed through this House, no one can do it alone, so the view was majority to be accepted, so certainly the House that was here agreed that it would be this way. And otherwise, there are many legal opinions, and it is precisely for the insecurity of us doctors, because you lawyers can't agree, I think that this needs to be addressed even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u37	Thank you, Madame. Mr Karel Haas wants to respond with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u38	Thank you very much for the floor. I just made two notes. Please report to me to the Members who want to provide the data, I will be happy to provide it to you. That's answer ad 1. And ad 2 - I, please, did not criticize the parliamentary proposals in my previous speech. I have said here that, through Madam President, the honourable colleague Adámková stated in her first speech that the current state of the monopoly is the result of the full legislative process and the outcome of the government proposal. So I merely pointed out that this is not the result of the entire legislative process starting with the government and that this is the result of the Janulík amendment on 6 May 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u39	Thank you, too. Madam, before you, Mr Robert králíček came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u40	I'm sorry, and I don't mean to be wrong right now, but I'd like to talk about the sums, because you mentioned them here, you kicked out the percentages, and for me the misleading figure, I'd like to talk about the amount in plenary, I don't want to know about it afterwards. So if we're arguing with some numbers and data here, let's just say it. If 1.2% could be 100 million, then it's super business. [[13.50 hours]] So we're talking about a hundred million-dollar business that these insurance companies are competing for and where there's something going on. But if 1.2%, as you say - and it was suggested from your context that it was such a slim sum that it wasn't nearly important to discuss it, I sensed it from that context - I need to know it to decide whether or not I will support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u41	Thank you. Another is Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u42	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to extend it anymore. Well, if you ask me, we'll talk to a colleague of mine about it. The government proposal itself has, of course, gone through the whole system and, of course, the parliamentary proposals are not going through the government. So it's just a question of how we understand each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u43	Thank you, Madame. Mr Jan Kuchař is now in the debate. I'm sorry, Mr Síla with a point of fact, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u44	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to mention it. When there was this mention of how much it costs and how convenient it is, how plurality of those insurance companies is economically advantageous. If you take it around, the commercialization of health care always leads to the loss of money in the system. It's logical, because the money stays in the pockets of the very healthcare entrepreneurs, whether they're insurance companies or they're the owners of different medical facilities. A couple of numbers, if you take it around, we have about eight percent of VAT going to health care and we have three percent for health insurance companies. If we take the United States, it's 18 and 23 percent that are commercialized. How do you explain this when you say how convenient it is to have commercial insurance?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Kuchař will now be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u46	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, I am not going to talk about whether or not a monopoly is to be abolished. It's definitely supposed to be canceled. I'm not gonna talk about whether or not anything's been lobbied here. I'm gonna talk more about what I'm missing from the senatorial proposal. One thing is that it's a little misleading for me and terminology that it's travel insurance. Because it is insurance of long-term residents in the Czech Republic for more than three months related to visa, residence permit and so on. So it should be said that it's residential health insurance. The second thing is that we should also, first and foremost, work on the transposition of European law, which is insurance for children under the age of 18, which should just go to public health insurance companies. At that point, if we think about the number of insured people, we're talking about about 60 to 70 percent of these insured people who aren't actually gonna be a business for any other than public health insurance companies in the future. Because if you marry who is the insured person, they are not working in the Czech Republic, but they are their family members who came with them or their children. Of course, these children under 18 should go through public health insurance. At that point, too, those who seek to provide this service should be told that they will lose about 60 to 70 per cent of the market when this European law is incorporated into Czech law. Another thing that bothers me a little bit is that insurance should be provided by insurance companies that currently do not have a contract with healthcare establishments. In other words, therefore, if we are to abolish the monopoly, let us cancel it in such a way that all health insurance companies on the Czech market can provide this service. If they are able, these seven health insurance companies, to insure ten million people, they are certainly able to insure another 100,000 foreign insured people, which we are talking about. That's when we're talking about the insurance companies that medical facilities, be they hospitals, doctors and so on, have contracts. They will therefore reduce the administrative burden for these health care establishments, as they will be billed to insurance companies, which are currently invoiced and clearly coded, whether it be 333 or 888, it doesn't matter. But clearly, insurance companies will be contracted with their subsidiaries. Last but not least, it is up to us to allow business for these public health insurance companies. I realize this is a matter of the new law. But let us allow public health insurance companies to do business in commercial insurance, whether it be foreigners or in the future, even Czech citizens who want to insure their health insurance. So let's say they only have the opportunity to insure in the health sector. This means that they should insure health workers, insurance workers, hospitals, their facilities and so on and they will have to be 100% owned by those public health insurance companies. Because at that point, we're going to make sure that this higher health income stays in the health sector, because the profits and dividends from these stock companies, public health insurance companies that are 100% owned, can't go to other activities than health care. So we will open our way up by correcting this law, opening our way to getting more funds into health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u47	Thank you. Your speech raised one point of fact which Mr David Kasal is referring to. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would have responded to my previous speaker through you. Thank you for hearing that. I'll add one more thing to explain. We bill insurance companies electronically. When it comes to arranging people from abroad who are here, we have to issue a paper invoice that has no continuity whatsoever with the company that insures, because it is a commercial company that has no contracts with the medical facility. Specifically, pediatricians have a huge problem with how to charge vaccines. Because the system of administration of vaccines, which are from regular insurance, is that we get it basically free and charge directly to the insurance company. So I'm not even able to give a specific price to, like, Hexavaccine, what I'm supposed to charge for those commercial insurance companies. So this is all unsolved. In order not to make an even bigger mess, I think it is necessary to discuss this in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u49	Thank you. Mr Miloslav Janulík will now make a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I'd go to margo colleagues - I was wondering who, they'd find someone to defend their colors. The difference between you and me is huge, in this case, we're not in a straight position, because I'm not sitting at a computer and I'm not theorizing, no one's pushing me any backgrounds and numbers, and the numbers you're talking about, I'm doing these hands. That's the big difference, and when you say 1,2%, you have no idea what's behind the huge amount of money it is. But the faculty, it's just one part of the pie, at least the same size or larger, it's the thousands of us that do it with these little hands, and that makes up the big and interesting sums. And if you were sitting here listening to me, you'd see that it's hundreds of millions of crowns, it's not millions of crowns, it's hundreds of millions of crowns. And look at the data of the IHIS for the year 2020 or 2015, 2013, which took place in this, what amounts they were. And look what it looks like now. My question is always the same: who is it supposed to serve? When it suits the providers, it suits the insured, it suits the state, and it doesn't suit who? And your legal perspective on the matter, it's a goddamn theorizing, because you're not gonna come into contact with it at all, it's a virtual reality for you. But I'm telling you again, if you just have to do it with your hands and then do it manually, and then they find out that no one will pay for it, and the insured person in question, quasi-insurgent is somewhere beyond the mountains, you'll never see the money again, and that's how it piles up, so that's the point. I didn't have any other motivation but to finally make things right, because it was just very difficult for me personally. It wasn't a legal act for me. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-12-ps2021-041-02-003-070.u51	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the agreement, I am interrupting this item and the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until tomorrow, that is until Thursday 13. 10 a.m. until 9 p.m. when the meeting begins at paragraph 175, which is a written interpelation. I'll thank both senators for now. I have another announcement, please, members of the Organizing Committee, to meet in the Dagmar Burešová room in five minutes, which is room 106. Thank you, everyone, and I wish you a good meal.
