ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1994 Coll., on Road Transport, as amended, and other related laws /house print 58/ - second reading I will ask the Minister of Transport to take the position of the appellant, as well as the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. I would now ask the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka to introduce us to the proposed proposal. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are returning at second reading to the draft law amending the law on road transport, as amended. The main objective of the bill is to ensure the implementation of a number of European Union regulations at the legal level, in particular those which form part of the so-called mobility package. The bill addresses several areas of legislation. Firstly, it is the operation of international road transport and the hooding of vehicles or combinations with the largest permissible weight of 2,5 to 3.5 tonnes intended for the transport of animals or goods. It is also about sending drivers to carriers established in other countries, also a proposal that regulates the exercise of control and state professional supervision and a number of other specific adjustments that have already been mentioned in the first reading. The Economic Committee adopted six amendments to the draft law with which the Ministry of Transport agrees. So much very briefly to introduce this bill in the context of second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will state that, at first reading, we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 58/1 and 2. And I would now ask that Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, take the floor to inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee has dealt with this press 58 twice at its meetings. On 10 March 2022, it set a timetable for the submission of amendments and subsequently adopted a resolution for this press at its 6th meeting on 31 March 2022. [[11.30 hours]] "Economic Committee [[I.]] Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House Press 58 as amended by the approved amendments." Since it is possible to read the press, I would merely summarize that these are proposals that have helped the Ministry of Transport to complete and merely refine the submitted press. Subsequently, "the Economic Committee empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; [[II.]] III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. I would now like to open a general debate in which I am calling for an application so far, Mr Martin Kolovratník. I will ask the Member to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. I will not be submitting an amendment here at second reading, but I would like to comment briefly, or explain, explain what is actually the content of the amendment, because it is - I think here I confirm the Minister's words - the implementation of European Union regulations, say relatively non-conflict, but, as they say, the ďábel is hidden in detail. And it is precisely the word "relatively" because it concerns - aside from a number of other changes or provisions - what I want to talk about concerns the conditions for the operation of road transport, the truck. In the Czech Republic, the association Česmad, the association of road freight carriers, deals with this. It deals with the conditions of both drivers of companies from abroad who are visiting us, operating on the territory of the Czech Republic, the term is called cabotage, so of course it solves the conditions of our drivers, employees of Czech companies who operate abroad. All of you, each of you who is a little bit interested in the European Union or about foreign relations, you know that it is never simply black and white, that on the one hand we have the nice words, nice thoughts - one Europe, one market, one single market, that those conditions should be the same for everyone - but then we see the reality: differences in price levels, in average drivers' wages, let's say west of us, with us and vice versa, east of us. Sometimes these are moments that can be advantageous for us, for Czech companies, for Czech companies, that we are actually the cheaper alternative, but the opposite is somewhere - at least I feel it for myself - in the middle and vice versa, we can be applied to, say, competition, which we or Czech companies and Czech carriers do not like. The reason I'm going to talk about it briefly and factually is because the story isn't on the table right now. The road package - that's the name of the whole thing - is from 2020 and I remember it very well from the beginning of the previous one, and especially from the past period when we were discussing a common position on this road package on the board of economic committees. Several colleagues and I were also at a meeting of economic committees within the framework of V4 in Hungary and there exactly - even then three or four years ago - I will say that the position of the Czech Republic was, say, comparable, perhaps similar to that of Slovakia, completely different with Polák and completely different with Maďar. Finding common ground in order to sign a joint memorandum - but on the other hand, so that the memorandum was not empty - was very difficult at the time. So, as I'm saying, what I'd like to bring you closer here, and maybe in a good way - I don't want to say it now, but he's calling on my colleagues from the Ministry of Transport that it might cause some problems for the future, and maybe it'll be another topic for some follow-up amendment here in this Act No. 111/1994. Otherwise, the law also deals with taxi services - even here - digitization, Ubry and so on - that is not what we are doing at the moment - so it is necessary to know that certain question marks are being born here, which we may not see today. We'll see them in six months, maybe a year. As I said, here are the provisions, what goes through today's second reading, on the Economic Committee - and now I don't want to repeat what the Minister said, we discussed it there on April 1st - a number of non-conflict amendments were adopted, let's say complementary ones, prepared with the resort. These provisions respond to the road package of 2020. As regards the controls of sending foreign drivers to our territory, in the territory of the Czech Republic, it is clearly positive and correct there. This is also positively perceived by market players, when we know or expect that the Czech authorities will have a new right of control over foreign drivers, they will be able to sanction them. This means it is better and more consistent control of our Czech transport market. It is also fair because Czech carriers face precisely such checks abroad, in other countries of the European Union, and if we want to have a fair competition and we want to give Czech companies a chance to survive on the European market, the conditions must be the same. That's the positive. Where it gets a little worse, this relates to the second point, and this is called a check on working time. It is well thought - and we have seen it often in other fields - such a good way or the way to hell paved with good intentions or good thoughts. Because it is also the implementation of European directives, but mainly the representatives of Česmad, precisely the carriers, have already pointed out in the interdepartmental commentary procedure that the real road control directly in the field may be poorly controlled conditions. Firstly, it is because we sometimes do not even know the rules of the sending or home state of the country where the carrier is registered. And it's logical, working hours are given in different ways, there are different historical customs in individual states. There are also different interpretations. Somewhere they have a work code, as we are used to in our country, in the Czech Republic, elsewhere they only have collective bargaining, elsewhere, as you know here from the Czech Republic, it is a combination of both. So, in practice, in this directive, which we are now implementing by this law, Directive 2002/2015, those interpretations are not uniform in the Member States. Here it must be said frankly that during the discussion, when the road package was proposed in Brussels, the lobbying of the large states, France, Germany, has simply prevailed - and you know that, especially in France, the conditions are, say, different, non-standard, quite different from us and the unions there have a much stronger word - that is, for example, what carried the package, and it is not quite good or balanced with countries like us, the Czech Republic, Poland or Slovakia. In a good way, it may also be an appeal or a call for a government coalition, for our representatives in Brussels, to keep this in mind in the committees of the European Parliament and try to get back to it and perhaps strengthen our position. But I'll move on quickly. There is another question mark, and that is the fact that in the proposal as presented to us, the control of working time is built according to the tachograph, depending on the records in the digital register, the digital tachograph. All I want to point out here is that the tachograph controls the driver itself, which may mean that he and contrary to the employer's instructions - and it doesn't have to be intentional, it can also be unintentional - can set his working hours at a little different times than he actually works than he does with actual work performance. Sometimes even drivers can't tell exactly what the time is or what the work emergency is. In other words, records from the tachograph may not always reflect their working hours precisely in the case of checks. Now I can think of an interesting comparison with the world of rail transport, where we were here in the last House exactly a year ago - and it was this time - they adopted an amendment to the Railway Act. We put - and I appreciate it here, I would like to remind you - after political agreement across the coalition, opposition and after expert discussion on the Economic Committee, we adopted a provision called MLS - monitoring the driver's license. That was the road traffic he was dealing with. For example, rail rules are much more strict and I will really say, not for hours, but for minutes, railroads in the driver's world are defined, monitored and recorded exactly work performance or on-call performance. I just want to point out here that it is not so clear and firm on the road yet, and it could - I'm not saying that it will - but it could cause problems and, of course, in the event of some kind of control or penalty, it could then commit some disputes, perhaps even judicial action, if the person concerned resists. [[11.40 hours]] And the third problem is the balancing period, the so-called compensatory period. The point is that our Czech Labour Code sets a compensation period for 26 weeks, collective agreements can extend it, it is very variable, up to 52 weeks. But beware, the tachograph is checked only after 28 days backwards. This means that records may not be and are not actually available after such a long time during the road inspection. But like I said, I don't want to haunt this place, I don't want to block the law right now, go back to discussing things. Rather, it is something that I feel is important to be heard, recorded, and to wait for practice. I believe that if we could see the problems then, let's say, in real life, that we can agree on a brief discussion in a supplementary amendment, for example, in the so-called '90s' and work these things out. I'm sure the control of working time during road checks is something that needs to be addressed. It is logical that supporters, carriers, those players, entrepreneurs who are on the market are not completely enthusiastic about this, but when I asked a technical question, I felt, say, some kind of helpfulness or understanding that, in short, the Ministry of Transport, the Czech State must respond. It is the implementation of the EU regulations that we have to apply to us, and we do not want the carriers, nor do we, as a opposition, want to be directly opposed to this. Probably the last thing I've learned about this law or those proposals and when compared to practice is the last thing I've seen, so the potentially conflicting place can be the fact that road transport drivers have regulations on compliance with driving times, breaks, rests and so on, let's say, very strict. Sometimes these rules may seem a little useless, but again it's more of a discussion, perhaps even of sub-legal standards to discuss, that is, the so-called implementing decree. And maybe I'll just say a little bit of relief, an illustration example, that this directive, the road package, and what we're going to pass into Czech law, it might even apply to road transport entrepreneurs. So we could theoretically - some of you have a business or business - suddenly de facto ad absurdum could introduce requirements for some working time, for breaks and similar provisions that are common to employees, so we would suddenly implement them to an entrepreneur who is on his own, and it is up to him to decide. So that could happen in practice. Bottom line, now the implementation of Act No. 119/199, the special obligations of a road transport operator operated by large vehicles may also apply to an entrepreneur who is also a driver. So there could be these absurd situations. But, as I have said several times in my speech, it is not a matter that would be a reason to return the law, to discuss it or to block it unnecessary. It is more a matter which I feel should be heard here, at second reading, in the explanation and also in the view of amendments. And I advise: if we hear the interpretation or the problems in practice, then it can be a topic for the subcommittee on transport, for the economic committee, then, of course, we will be ready to fine-tune it and work to make it work well. I think we can all agree here across both the coalition and the opposition, if this is for the benefit of Czech companies, Czech industry, our entrepreneurs, their greater competitiveness in the field of the European Union, so we will definitely find a consensus here and accept any further changes as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u7	Thank you. I note that we are in the general debate of the Road Transport Act at second reading. The next party to the general debate is Mr Martin Kupka, Minister of Transport. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u8	All I can do is add and underline some facts. The important thing is that, in the case of checking working time on the road, the presented form of the law is actually the transposition of the directive and it is a check of weekly working time and breaks for food and relaxation. This is not a modification of the control of all aspects of working time. In addition, the control will be limited to checking data from the tachograph, and the responsibility for both the driver and the carrier itself is already laid down in the current legislation. However, I would like to add a few points that is well mentioned, because, as it brings on the one hand some new responsibilities and adjustments to new responsibilities, on the other hand, it also brings about some removal and reduction of administrative burdens, given that we should always bear in mind that we should also bring simplification to the regulation of laws. So I would like to mention that in this case, a road transport entrepreneur will not have to report new data to the transport office concerning vehicles operated by him if he is also the operator of the vehicle, which means a certain degree of reduction of the administrative burden. Similarly, the obligation of road transport entrepreneurs to carry out repairs of large vehicles on surfaces is abolished and the proof of maintenance is kept outside their own premises for two years, which, of course, means further unnecessary paperwork. Plus, the adjustment cancels the unnecessary paperwork. A, in the case of vehicles used for the training of applicants for a driving licence or a driver's professional licence, there is no obligation to use a tachograph, even if fitted with a vehicle. Finally, one of those partial adjustments, which is based on current practice. Duplicates the assessment of integrity among road transport entrepreneurs and the responsible representatives are also eliminated by the trade authorities and transport authorities in this respect. This also means some relief.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u9	Thank you, Minister of Transport. Next, where I announced the application from the post, and Mr Karel Sládeček reporting. So at this point, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, although I see the facts, but Mr. Sládeček has already been logged in. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u10	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear ladies, gentlemen, I would agree here with my colleague Kolovratník, although we perceive some possible problems, so this law, this bill I think contains very important legislation. And I can say for the SPD club that we will support this bill until third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u11	Thank you. Now may I - a factual remark is written here by Mr Jan Bureš. Doesn't he report with a factual remark? Okay. I have it right here, so... At this point, I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? I see, from the position of Mr. Martin Kolovratník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u12	Thank you. It would almost be on a factual note, but it doesn't matter, because it'll be a few seconds. I want to thank the Minister very much for the reaction. And I also said in my opening words that these are potential potential risks that could come in practice or in real life. If colleagues at the Ministry of Transport - it is clear to me that when the amendment was being prepared, the implementation was also being dealt with by market players on the market - they asked what could be done in real life, that is, if this is what is being counted on the resort, and I hear the words about simplification there, I definitely welcome that. I think it's very good, so thank you for the explanation. And actually, I might even lighten it up - if my fears are unnecessary, I'll only be happy and it'll be fine if it works. Although on the other hand, I allow myself to think a little bit short that I'm looking at it now in the long run, and it's in relation to the energy crisis, fuel prices: it's all connected. Now that we're having a debate about individual modes of transport, we're actually kind of helping and simplifying road transport, and it has logic from the point of view of the road entrepreneurs. But I'm always and I'm not always hiding, my heart is just a little closer to the railroad, so I'm going to hope and wish that we could make the lives of the railway businessmen a little easier, so that the railway, like transport mode, which is environmentally, more efficient, energy-efficient, perhaps even safer in terms of fuel and the like, so that we can find a similar match there. But I agree that this is, of course, another subject, another law, it is not an amendment to Act 111 on Road Transport. So thank you for the reaction to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-003-002.u13	Thank you, too. I do not see any further applications for the general debate. I'm gonna ask at this point if anyone's checking in? I'm looking around the hall, I don't see anyone, so at this point, I'm ending the general debate. I'll ask if the Minister of Transport is interested in the final word? She doesn't, neither does the rapporteur. [[11.50 hours]] At this point, I would like to start a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I'm going to ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, so at this point, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'll ask if there's any interest in the final word from the Minister of Transport? It's not. On the part of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee? Not either. So at this point, I am ending the second reading of this bill, thanking the Minister of Transport and thanking the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. And now we're going to the next point, and that's the point.
