ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 164/2013 Coll., on International Cooperation in Tax Administration and on Amendment of Other Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 203/ - Second Reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura for the plaintiff, and I will ask him to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to make a second reading of the draft law amending Act 164/2013 Coll., on international cooperation in tax administration and amending other related laws, as amended, and other related laws. This proposal is the implementation of the so-called DAC 7 Directive, the March 2021 European Union Council Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. The proposal concerns changes in three laws. Firstly, it is an amendment to the International Cooperation Act on Tax Administration when automatic exchange of information is introduced from Internet platform operators in the area of a shared economy, such as platforms that mediate accommodation, sales of goods and the like. Furthermore, the obligation to provide... I can stress that the obligation to provide information does not fall on vendors active on the platform and does not fall on ordinary e-shops unless they provide sales or accommodation via the Internet to third vendors. The Czech authorities will obtain information about sellers from domestic platforms and from platforms from countries outside the European Union operating in the Czech Republic. The information obtained relating to dealers abroad shall be exchanged with their home State within the limits of that Directive or within the limits of the relevant international agreements. On the contrary, the Czech Republic will receive information from foreign authorities about Czech vendors active on foreign platforms. In addition, the international exchange of information in tax administration, including so-called group requests, is regulated. The international exchange of information in tax administration is being adjusted, further forms of international cooperation are deepening. The second law that we amend in the framework of the amendment is the amendment to the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic. Following the introduction of other instruments of international cooperation, an instrument not yet used in tax management, namely control purchases, is introduced for the control of obligations. However, it is now only being implemented for this area, not for tax administration in general. Thirdly, it is an amendment to international assistance in the recovery of certain financial claims, where the possibility of international enforcement of tax sanctions is regulated. The effectiveness of the bill is expected on 1 January next year, except for joint tax checks, where efficiency is expected on 1 January 2024. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee and the committee resolution was delivered as House prints 203/1 and 203/2. And now it is time for the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Hana Naiclerová, to take the floor, but if I am not mistaken, she is excused. So I just want to make sure that someone else can take the floor for the committee? I don't see the lady in the room, and I think she's excused. I'll read an apology in the meantime. I'd like a solution. Mr Lacina's apology came from 12:30 to 14:00 for work reasons. And since - if I am not mistaken - the chairman of the Committee on Budgets is not present, we need to interrupt for two minutes and I will ask the rapporteur to be provided. I'm interrupting for two minutes until 9.40 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u4	Thank you for the arrangement. The first Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets has nominated Mr Jiří Havránek. We are at second reading, so we do not have to vote on this, and I will ask the Member to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any possible amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u5	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues, I will be happy to represent my colleague with the fact that I will only read the resolution, and I will introduce you to the resolution. It was the 113th resolution of our budget committee from the 14th meeting of 22 June this year, when, after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Fojtík, Mrs Naiclerová's intelligence report and after the debate, the Committee recommended the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to amend Act No. 164/2013 Sb., on international cooperation in tax administration and on the amendment of other related laws, as amended, and other related laws, i.e. House press 203, agreed and subsequently authorised the rapporteur to read here this resolution, which I finally read. Thank you for your attention, and let us continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u6	Thank you, Mr President, and I am now opening up a general debate to which President Alena Schillerová is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u7	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues. We are discussing an amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Tax Administration, which is a response to the EU Council Directive 2021/514 on 22 March 2021. After all, the Minister spoke of it. This amends Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, Directive DAG 7. And it was I, as the Finance Minister, who advocated the implementation of this directive. This was especially because the digital economy and its relation to tax issues are very close to us. At a time when I was Minister of Finance, we were one of the leaders in opening up this issue in the context of the whole of the European Union. The proposed amendment significantly strengthens and introduces rules that strengthen transparency in relation to individual digital platforms, which will subsequently announce the income of natural persons and legal persons. This information has been obtained in a manner or will be obtained in such a way as not to report such revenue and as a result that such revenue is not part of the grey economy. Directive DAG 7 concerns, in particular, cases where digital platforms operate simultaneously in several countries. The important point of this amendment is that the state should collect taxes effectively. Entrepreneurs who work honestly and pay taxes are not and must not be affected by this step, compared to those who try to cut taxes - they must not have a competitive advantage over honest entrepreneurs. This directive in question is perfectly in line with the policies of the YES movement, which we have been promoting throughout governance. The main part of the proposal is the extension of the current framework for international automatic exchange of information in the field of digital economies. Thanks to this amendment, the tax administrator in the Czech Republic will regularly obtain information about individual vendors who receive income from the provision of services or sales of goods, rentals or other provision of real estate or, for example, means of transport on these platforms. One of the other important objectives of the amendment is to modernise and make international cooperation more effective in tax management. Directive DAG 7 responds to dynamically changing environments, especially to the consequences of the increase in the role of shared platforms and the digitalisation of the economy, not only in the Czech Republic but in most countries. The individual tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union do not currently have sufficient information to correctly assess the income tax achieved by their commercial activities carried out through digital platforms such as Liftago, Airbnb, Uber, Bolt and others. The very strengthening of administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is based on efficiency, the modernisation of existing institutes used in international cooperation in tax administration, and the strengthening of legal cooperation, which will also be supported by the introduction of new deadlines, institutes that are created in such dynamic sectors. In strengthening the measures to comply with the obligations under the International Cooperation in Tax Administration Act, the draft act also contains a clarification of the transposition of Council Directive 2010/24/EU on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims arising from taxes, charges, duties and other measures and makes clear the scope of the International Assistance Act in the recovery of certain financial claims as regards the enforcement of penalties imposed in tax proceedings. On a specific level, the draft law can be broken down into several thematic units. These are other forms of international cooperation in tax administration, including tax control, which is carried out together with the authorities of the Member States of the European Union or the Contracting States, and secondly the international exchange of information in tax administration, including so-called group requests, thirdly the protection of personal data and the correction of security breaches, fourthly the automatic exchange of information obtained from platform operators, fifthly the amendment of the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic related to the modification of the Institute of Control Purchase and sixth last item, international assistance in the enforcement of tax penalties. As a result, the proposed bill will increase the tax revenues of public budgets, promote fair business, and I therefore consider this amendment to be a good example of how effective tax collection is to be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u8	Thank you, too. Am I still looking around to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? This is not the case, or I am ending the general debate. For the record, I'm going to ask if there's any interest in final words? The Minister and the rapporteur do not want to. I can start the debate in detail. In a detailed debate, I have the Minister's application. I merely remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u9	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is set out in House document 1176, including the justification. I'm not gonna read those paragraphs, I'm gonna explain easily. Conditions for the performance of the Director-General's duties as Deputy Director-General shall be adapted. Existing legislation was adopted before the adoption of the Civil Service Act. This amendment brings this into line with the Civil Service Act, which means that these financial administration officials will be subject to the same conditions as generally applicable under the Civil Service Act. Thank you. I repeat, House document number 1176.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-07-ps2021-035-02-002-018.u10	Thank you. Once again, I do not see any further application for a detailed debate, so I conclude the detailed debate again for order - I assume that there is no interest in the final words. It's confirmed. And I hereby conclude the second reading of this proposal, thank you both to the Minister and to the rapporteur. And we will proceed to the next point. So I'm opening point number.
