ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u1	77. Government bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Law /House print 137/ - third reading We interrupted this point when Mrs Dostálová spoke, I first ask that both the rapporteur and the rapporteur of this law sit on the news table and we continue to discuss it. I will ask Mrs Dostálová, who I think was interrupted during the factual remark, whether she wants to complete it or not? He's giving up. So other factual points were made here by Mr Jakob. Mr Jakob was, in turn, signed up for a factual remark. Does he want to use it? He doesn't want to. Furthermore, it was Mr Letocha - neither did he. Minister Rakušan - no. Mr Brázdil with a factual remark on the construction law - no. President Schillerová has also been signed up for a factual remark during the hearing of the construction law - she will also not make use of factual remarks. We have dealt with the factual points, we are returning to the general debate to which Mr Hrnčíř is registered - Mr Hrnčíř is not present. Another Mr Kukla for the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be in the middle of this, but I'm here to say a few things from my practice from the region to the amendment to the construction law. I'm sure I'll be short, and you'll all thank me for it at the end. When we look at the building bill amendment, I think the target that was here three years ago was clear. We wanted to come up with something new, that is, speed up the building process, improve it and improve it, because when we look into today's practice, we see how it works. Building permits are long, there are delays, x years waiting. And when we finally had the hope that this would improve, we know that there was a great political debate, it was discussed both at Parliament's level and at regional, municipal level, and there was some agreement after a long time. Now that we've seen hope, a new government comes in with a novel and pushes back what I said in the beginning to speed things up, improve and improve. When we look into practice, we can see that in Havlíčkův Brod, for example, a bypass is built for about 1.6 billion, built by the Road and Motorway Directorate. The bypass is under construction, hundreds of millions are invested there, and at the moment the bypass doesn't have a building permit, the administrative court has rejected it. That's just how I'm talking about how it should be improved. When we look at what the experts say, they say, "Yes, the amendment, but what's to be done by the novel?" The amendment has something to improve and respond to the current situation. I don't think this novel is responding to anything, but it's pushing back what everyone's been waiting for. The problem is, when we look at what the experts say and what they say: Territorial planning needs to be improved, they call on city representatives. According to representatives of large cities, one of the significant brakes on faster building development is complicated spatial planning. According to Ondřej Boháč from the Institute of Planning and Development, this problem is particularly intense in the largest cities of over 100,000 inhabitants. The biggest complication of the project is its location in the given territory. You need to make a project and a social agreement that the project has some height, some volume and use. It's always the most complicated in the territory. The problem does not occur with small municipalities, so it may seem that there is no problem on the outside, but the problem is. As I have already mentioned, this is a problem for the largest cities such as Prague, Brno, Ostrava, Liberec. There is an extreme problem that pushes away available housing. The current state of territorial planning has called Boháč the most complex and the least understandable tool in Europe that deserves change. Even the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš admitted the need for change, but he also pointed out that there will probably not be a number of changes in the upcoming amendment to the construction law. "I think that in the amendment to the construction law - perhaps not in this, but in the future - we should deal with the role of territorial plans," he said at the summit. However, this approach is not considered sufficient at all by city representatives. According to Boháč, the government has a chance at one amendment during a given parliamentary term, which is probably the best one to do. It's a mistake not to see it. "The state tells the big cities that planning is necessary, but later. As long as this lasts, we will not move on," the Boháč man summarized. Deputy Mayor Zuzana Bajgárová was also critical: "We started this debate three years ago and all we can hear in that time is: Now is not the time, let's deal with it sometime in the future. And nothing new has happened in three years," she summarized. Michal Sedláček, Director of KAM Brno, considers it a mistake that too much emphasis was placed on the speed of the building permit in the preparation of the construction law and the territorial plans were forgotten. No one understands the zoning plan, so he found himself on the other side of the dorm. But people don't realize that it has the same effect on the development of the city as building permits. Brno is an example of something being wrong. They have a 1994 zoning plan in Brno, they started working on the new one in 2002 and never thought it would take 20 years. The planners of the largest Czech cities therefore called on Members to amend this law as quickly as possible. Today, it prevents cities from creating territorial plans according to their own needs or from having their own building regulations. Therefore, I would like to call on this place to say that, at this point, there is no need to make an amendment to the government's five-calices, but if necessary, territorial plans need to be dealt with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u3	Thank you, that was Mr Kukla, and now I see Mr Hrnčíř, so I will ask him to take the floor. We are in a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment briefly on the amendment to the Construction Act. I haven't been to the construction law yet, so I'd just briefly remind you of some things here. First of all, I would like to remind you that this was also the SPD movement, which, despite the opposition of the current ruling coalition, helped enforce the much-needed building bill No. 283/2021. That an adjustment to the current state of civil building law was needed, they agreed, I think, all politicians across the political spectrum. [[Noise in the hall.]] It has been and must be admitted that the length and circumstances of the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic are still completely unacceptable, unbearable and I am not afraid to say - even shameful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u5	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and let the speaker speak calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u6	Thank you. According to World Bank statistics, in 2020, the average period for which you will obtain a building permit was incredible 246 days, which ranked the Czech Republic as 157th out of a total of 190 states. For comparison, in Denmark, it takes us 64 days, within Europe, and not just Europe, to process a building permit, our Republic is simply wrong, which is a problem that is being discussed, and unfortunately it has only been debating for too long. Of course, immediately after the approval of the new construction law, votes appeared, especially from the current ruling coalition, which claimed that even the new construction law would not accelerate the construction proceedings, which is not true. And I'd like to stop by for a while. In particular, the replacement of all authorisation processes, including a two-phase territorial decision and a subsequent building permit by a single building project procedure, is an entirely unambiguous time saving, not to mention the examples of practice where one of the permits was contested and before it was decided, the authorisation from another authorisation process ceased to apply. The builder was again at the very beginning of this, when I overreact a little bit, rat race and it was necessary to run all the permits again. There can also be no further delay in the proceedings due to the failure of the Office, since the failure to give a decision automatically implies the approval of such proceedings within a period of time. I also very much welcome the principle of full appeal in the appeal proceedings, as this is once again an indisputable saving of time. In accordance with the principle of full appeal, if the appeal body concludes that the contested decision issued in the application procedure is contrary to the law or that it is incorrect, it will change that decision accordingly, thereby, of course, losing the infinite ping-pong between the appeal authority and the first step office. So, of course, the claim that no time will save it is false. Therefore, when we all agree here that the current reality of the construction proceedings is simply trivial, it does not make sense to me by amending the proposed postponement of the new construction law for another year. On the one hand, before the elections and the current government coalition declared the need to accelerate and simplify the construction process, on the other hand, the reality is elsewhere. What I do not welcome at all is the rescinding of the Supreme Building Office and the system of regional construction offices, i.e. the creation of an independent system of construction offices. That's just completely wrong. The existing de facto sub-location of construction offices under self-government often makes it practically impossible for an impartial and independent authorisation process when we get into such situations that officials allow the intention of the municipality or the region, which, of course, are also their employers. This, of course, is a conflict of interest. Does that make such a decision seem distinctly independent to you? In doing so, self-management has a clear impact on the construction in its territory, as it issues territorial and regulatory plans. The government, it seems, is not enough and clings to leaving building offices at city halls, which thus have some control over how concrete constructions are decided in individual building procedures. I would just like to point out that, legally, such informal control is, of course, illegal. A consistent separation of the state construction administration from the self-government would solve all the problems mentioned. The government rejected this for some reason, so the lack of independence associated with the sometimes insufficient expertise of officials remains another infirmity that had the new building law's potential to solve, and unfortunately, it will not be resolved after the government's intervention. Lack of independence from the building authorities, fragmentation of regulations, complexity of the building process, these are all problems that need to be dealt with immediately. And I say that it was too late yesterday, and therefore I cannot support and support the government proposed amendment to the construction law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech raised one point of fact, Mrs Peštová. Madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. He, in essence, as he was speaking here, it looked like the submitted amendment, which is being presented to us here, that there is actually some kind of salvation, that he is dealing with something. But she doesn't solve anything, she just postpones. That's where the efficiency is shifted, that's all the novel's gonna solve. What should happen in quotation marks is yet to come, and I would like to take advantage of my factual point here, and I would like to ask Minister Bartoš, through Mr President. I've noticed in the paper such an article that the building bill, or the amendment to the construction law, has broken the county down a lot, if you have anything to say to me, because last time you've always read me the current situation here, how it's settled, so I'd quite like to know how it's settled to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u9	Thank you. That was a point of fact. Vice-President Havlíček is now reporting to the general debate with the right of priority. Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u10	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I have spoken to the construction law in the first reading, where I have calculated the reasons why we believe that this is wrong, that everything that has been prepared here is being extended again, and I will not go back to that. In any case, it must be said that we will not support it, which is probably nothing unusual, the more so than that we have worked on the law for four years, that the law has passed a really precise opponentship - and I acknowledge that it is not brilliant, it is not a law of such character, the more so that it is attended by virtually all departments and that there are hundreds of opponents and various comment points. It should only be recalled that we wanted it to be quick, that there should be one office, that there would be one stamp, that there would be one application. We wanted everything to be quick, so that everything would be simple, that different approaches of different authorities would be put to an end, so that we could save our lives, and that the end of irreplaceability would finally be over. Yes, the government has the right, the House, or the five-calice, to have a hundred-eight, and it can change everything. But then it must be said that it bears all and full responsibility for anything that doesn't work, just as we were responsible for the fact that if our law, which we were demandingly preparing, didn't work. What we are preparing today, or what is likely to be agreed by the House, is probably the worst solution that can be. I would also understand perhaps if the House said: Yes, we see it quite differently, let's agree on where we will make certain changes, and let's make the law in some compromise. I may not like it, but I have to respect some rules that are, and a hundred eight is clear. What we're doing today means we're half-delaying something and leaving something at the same time. This will cause such confusion, for which I really do not know who will be responsible in the finals. But I can say it. The person who voted for him will be responsible for him. It's pasculi, what we're doing today. Let's just look at it from the perspective of so-called reserved or unreserved buildings. What's going to happen in traffic today? The highways will be approved according to our law, first-class roads, second-class roads, third-class roads will be approved, or the procedure will go, in another mode. So will the railroads. The main railroads will go according to our law and regional lines, or small railway structures and so on, the railway stations will go completely according to another law. I note that there are a number of other laws that have been established here, but I can't imagine how it will look in the finals. And let's not be illusioned that everything will turn around in the coming weeks or months and that everything will be all right as we march. It's gonna be a big mess. [[12.50 hours]] Let's just take a look at the fact that we've been planning on digitalizing it. These are the four pillars that the Ministry of Regional Development has in its full sense, whether it's the digitization of processes, or building processes, or the digitization of documents, or geoportals or digital maps, I hope I remember it all correctly. And all of this was tied to one date, and that date was 1. 7. 2023. So now it's all moving. So something's moving six months, something's moving a year, something's going according to our regime, something's going according to the new regime. We couldn't bring any more chaos into it. That is why I am surprised that it will probably not pass, if there is no miracle, Mr Kolovratník's amendment, it is the B five, who at least in this confusion is already trying to pull the handbrake and try to put into one regime all the critical infrastructure, which means that we do not judge the motorways according to one law and the first class road according to the law of another. I'm not saying that this is the most brilliant solution, but in all the chaos that is being created at the moment, it's at least a little bit of an effort to make things right and at least give it a uniform order. Thank you for the opportunity to come out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u11	Thank you. This has been the last logged in so far, but the rapporteur is reporting, which can, of course, speak at any time during the general debate. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u12	Thank you for the floor. I, not even as much as the rapporteur, but as a Member, I would like to express myself again, and I will try again. I'm gonna try again, really, but not so long, but I'm gonna try to turn your attention again to what we're trying to postpone today. First of all, the new building law was to speed up and simplify the construction proceedings and remove the rampant bureaucracy. We all need a new building law to tackle the crisis of available housing, to complete the motorway network and other strategic constructions of the state, but also to start drawing an enormous amount of money effectively, because for the next period we managed to negotiate the largest package in history, about CZK 1 trillion. Of course, if we can preserve our procedures, we'll find it hard to fill. At the same time, we must encourage the country's competitiveness so that investors do not run away from us abroad. Everyone must know whether it is an investor - a state or an investor - a citizen whether they can build or not, including appeals and judicial review, within one year at the latest. The principle of the new building law, which we are trying to postpone for one year today, is, in particular, the integration of the authorities concerned, no ping-pong among the authorities. Environmental conservationists and conservationists will retain their influence, because we have set it up so that where specially protected areas or specially protected monuments are of course not integrated, on the other hand, ordinary buildings are integrated into the building office and, of course, the environmental permit will be under the construction office. And even in the new building bill, it goes with one permit, which means the news that is being said here is already being incorporated into the new construction law. All citizens expect better services from officials. Currently, construction agencies only employ around 7,000 people at municipal level. Since bureaucratic procedures are really being removed, we follow the appeal principles, we remove ping-pong, so, of course, every mayor I've talked to said that it's clear to them that when they read that four people will really need two, that is, a new construction law counts about 4,000 to 5,000 people. At the same time, the unified system had the magic of a unified methodical leadership and, of course, eliminated the expanse of the number of construction offices, because, as I have said several times, we have municipal construction offices, special construction offices for various types of buildings such as military, railway, water law, so those construction offices in the Czech Republic are about 1,300. This really is not possible to keep this up, so we went the way of regulation of individual construction offices. Today, a builder - an investor needs a territorial decision and a building permit, often also the statements of owners of transport and technical infrastructure, binding opinions, statements of the authorities concerned. All of this is responded to by the new building law, so that the investor really communicates with only one office, namely the construction office. This means that the investor will need one permission from a single office and the construction office will handle all the documents. Of course, it is also very important for us to have one electronic request instead of the stack of documents, which means that all acts between the builder, the authorities concerned and the public or technical infrastructure owners take place electronically. We've already talked about this, the foundation is the Construction Man's Portal and so on. Since you really do not reflect that the proposal that we are dealing with today has great legal shortcomings, we delay the effectiveness of something that is effective, the amendment law has been forgotten. I'm going to try to turn your attention again to see what can happen. By forgetting the amendment law, all the component laws - take, for example, water protection. When you look into this compound law, it says that 1. 7. 2023 will go to the Supreme Building Authority for a water permit, whether it's a state or a citizen. And since we haven't changed the amendment law, this remains in force, but he will have nowhere to go because there is no Supreme Building Office. This isn't postponed by that one year. Your Minister Šalomoun said that we would bridge it in interpretation. I wonder what the courts will do about it when it is interpreted that - sorry, citizen, there is no Supreme Building Office here, we can't give it to you, go where you are used to, but where you are used to, it may also be the transferred scope, but since the law has already determined it somewhere else - I wonder what the debate with the Ministry of the Interior will be, who will pay for it. So these are just things I wanted to point out. The second problem - and again, please consider all this - is that we are actually dividing the buildings. We will allow the motorway as a dedicated construction under the new construction law, which means under the specialized construction office, the first class roads will be permitted under the old law. That means we're gonna have two laws in the construction field. Indeed, this will cause a huge amount of problems. Given that Mr Kolovratník could not attend today's discussion, who would certainly like to bring the amendments he tabled closer, I would very much like to show you - not as rapporteur, but as a Member - as a colleague of Mr Kolovratník, because amendments have been tabled. Firstly, from the workshop of the Ministry of Regional Development, adopted by the Guarantee Committee, which you have under the letters A1 and A2 - these amendments postpone digitization by six months, i.e. instead of 1 July 2023 to 1. 1. 2024. Then Mr Kolovratník's parliamentary proposals are under the letter B1 to B5. With regard to B1, there, in essence, Mr Kolovratník responded to the criticisms of the cities, that is, to abolish the requirement for standardisation and the content of the planning documentation. This is especially what statutory and large cities want. He's basically indulging in this to straighten things out. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Guarantee Committee disagreed on this, so the cities will not be able to accommodate it. Another proposal under letter B2 is basically that it complements the reserved buildings with the so-called critical infrastructure, while it is said that supervision of the designer of the reserved buildings is excluded, because, of course, there is no supervision of other reserved buildings that are already in the law. Amendment B3 - the issue is that construction regulations can be done by all statutory cities, not only Prague, Brno and Ostrava. Amendment B4 is precisely a link to the amendment law. Here, the Member has actually tried to include in the law at least a reference to the amendment law - so that we can deal with it in interpretation, so that there is something to lean on. But, of course, the fact that there are not listed component laws would be a question of what application would be in practice. But at least the attempt, the fact that the amendment law was completely forgotten, we were trying to straighten out here, or Mr. Kolovratník was trying to straighten out. [[13.00 hours]] And Amendment B5 - he was also mentioned by Vice-President Havlíček, through you, Mr President. That's exactly what I said, so there's no such thing as traffic chaos - one railroad there, the other railroad there, one road there, the other road there. This means that it is to be completed between dedicated buildings, that is to say in Annex 3, the construction of critical infrastructure and European critical infrastructure and the projects for which the planning contract has been concluded. This is very important to me, because if the situation remains as it is today, the municipalities will in good faith conclude planning contracts, but they also base on proper systemic bias. That is why the planning contracts were wanted to be between dedicated buildings, so that systemic problems could not really occur. In the context of what I have been trying to say here, whether these are legal problems that I have named many times, or even these material problems, I think that we are able to agree on some things on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which we would remedy today's unhappy state. Therefore, I would like to propose pursuant to § 95 para. Three, to repeat second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u13	Thank you. Madam, I note your proposal to repeat the second reading, which we will vote on after the general debate has been concluded. However, my colleague Nacher applied for this. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apologies that ran out in the meantime. Apologizes to the Minister for Legislation and Prime Minister Michal Šalomoun, today from 9 to 11 for health reasons and from 12.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. Another note is from Mr Turek, who apologizes between 13 and 15 a.m. and then until the end of the day for reasons of the family. And Dr. Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from today's meeting, from 9 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Nacher may continue the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not yet taken part in the construction law. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Not that I didn't want to perform and perform, but that I didn't perform at all and I didn't perform for the first time, that's what I meant. But I'll try to make it short. Following what I said at the previous point, my speech will be directed at the Minister of Regional Development, that I do not understand this procedure again and again today, that colleagues from the Pirate Party probably do not pass on information. It concerns, as I said, both the redistribution of refugees and in this case the construction law. Yeah, we've got a retainer standard here, but in the meantime, a novel is being prepared. And I don't know if the Minister knows this, but the capital of Prague - where the mayor is for the Pirate Party, I suppose he knows - adopted some resolution with 75 comments on it, 52 of which are absolutely essential. I'm not gonna keep you here any way I can to introduce you to everyone here, and I'm gonna say three. I'll cut them short. And I don't understand how they got there, how the mayor communicates with the Minister of Regional Development when they're from the same side. And there aren't that many of you here that you won't meet. Shortening the validity of existing territorial plans: Prague's capital is fundamentally refusing to shorten the validity of territorial plans. The new construction law by voting in the Chamber of Deputies, it was 153 for, only 1 against, extended the possibility of a valid zoning plan in Prague from 1999 to 31 December 2025 by the end of 2028 and now it is going back to 2025. Second comment: adding the accelerated process of the change of the zoning plan to the draft amendment. Prague insists on redesigning the amendment so as to maintain the possibility of making changes to existing territorial plans in the shortened procurement process, such as the original construction law. I don't understand when it's all about to get shorter and simpler, you're going in the opposite direction. The last reminder of all of these - I choose three, you see that I do not want to delay, otherwise there are about twelve pages - is stopping almost all changes to the zoning plan, changing conditions and continuity during the ongoing acquisition. Here the capital Prague rejected this part of the amendment, where the Ministry of Regional Development without any political assignment - that is in the official document - and the knowledge of the state of things and the reality of cities in the Czech Republic, especially Prague, changes the conditions for the acquisition of territorial plans and their ongoing changes, that is, what we are all currently approving, and it would change for the ongoing changes. So I would call it some retroactivity or indirect retroactivity. So I would really like to know, because it follows up, these changes, that is, how does the Ministry of Regional Development prepare these changes if it is not communicated with the capital, where he has his mayor? That's what I'm wondering, because, of course, it's connected. We're going to move something, something's being created here, something that even our own colleagues disagree with, and it's going to bring us back before the original novel that we've been discussing here, I don't know how much, that might remind me of the former secretary of local development... A year? We spent a year here discussing building laws? Over a year, even, and we're actually going back to the very beginning here. So much for a brief remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u15	Thank you very much. Your speech raised a factual remark from Minister Bartoš. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u16	I would only react lightningly, through you, to Mrs Peštová. Then I can tell you what condition they've been in since Monday, when the comments ran out, they've been settled. It is about 23 comments per county, together came some higher hundreds of comments and we will settle them. And Mr. Nacher. Of course I communicate with the Magistrate, not only with Zdeněk Hřib, but also with other representatives. That's the principle of a commentary procedure and an interdepartmental process that they're going to carry... I don't bake with Zdeněk Hřib and Mr Hlaváček any secret deals: We to you, we to you. Just all the regions, the authorities concerned, the non-profit even, the Chamber of Commerce, made comments on a substantive amendment, and we will now deal with them in a dialogue for two months. I looked at the things you said. Maybe the accelerated procedure, the one in the material novel is. All changes will be made in short. So the reservation, maybe there's some misunderstanding of the text... I saw once again a reservation on a single environmental position, how is it that there is no deadline, that if it does not go into discussion, it ends, it is European legislation, there we cannot say that if there is no single environmental position in time, then we will consider it delivered. Stopping changes - in turn the link to the temporary stop. Nothing's gonna stop there. And I'm done. Now we're talking about a material novel, which was the ninth, which was on Monday, ended the interreort, and now two months will settle the comments. And I don't know what the standard was before, but I'm in favour of transparent settlement, enthusiasm for eKLEP, so that all parties can express themselves. After all, you're working with the materials, and I'm very happy to meet you where you see the problem, because at least two things here aren't true, or there's some misunderstanding, especially in retroactivity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u17	Thank you. Mrs Peštová is registered with a factual point, and Mrs Dostálová, a factual point, is then submitted to the general debate. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u18	I'd like to respond to Minister Bartoš, if I may? [[The Minister doesn't notice.]] I can't. When Minister Bartoš mentioned here that he didn't know how the inter-revisional commentary procedure was going over the past period, I can assure you that I haven't experienced anything other than what you're doing. This means that it really went into a proper commentary procedure with the fact that it went to eKLEP, all the comment points, and, of course, within that, and that is why I mentioned it last time that over 3,000 significant comments came to waste. So now I didn't understand, you said there were 12 of them, which I think is not enough, that was hundreds of, like, hundreds, maybe hundreds, maybe you're approaching, like, a thousand. But I was more interested in something else. You mentioned and said you'd be settling for two months, but you're due until June. That's what this is all about. And we talked about it, if we have half a month now, two months to settle, which I don't think you're gonna, you're gonna be dealing with maybe six months, maybe even longer. So that's what we've been talking about all along. [[13.10 hours]] We have a law here, you're shifting efficiency, and I'm telling you, you're not able to process it through a proper legislative process, so you can follow up on the efficiency you're pushing. And that's how I see trouble. Of course, the other problems that have been mentioned here are going to be chaos as far as the decisions that will be made are going to be challenged, that's not what I'm dealing with right now. My point is, it's time-consuming. It won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u19	That was a factual point to which Minister Bartoš applied with another factual remark. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u20	I'm not good enough to respond to these people's comments. If I said 12, I don't know what the connection is. I think I said that this is an average of 23 comments per county. All regions, including the capital city of Prague, applied 436 comments on the overall proposal. So that's divided by 14 plus 1, or whatever it is, so 23 comments per edge. And I don't think they're buying it. Just the comments received by the Ministry are constructive, factual, and I have already discussed in the debate that a number of things are truly inspiring, and the Ministry will look for a solution that is satisfactory, so that there is agreement on it, unless it interferes with the actual direction of the proposed amendment. But I'm stressing again, we're talking about the delay. And the terms -- they all said we wouldn't bring a substantive amendment in due course. I admit, for two weeks, I think we were late because we coordinated it with the Ministry of the Environment and with a uniform environmental position, but we presented it including the RIA, a substantive amendment - we are not talking about this deferred - more or less in the term. I believe that good work and good communication will be able to deal with comments according to the two-month schedule, although we originally planned the month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u21	Thank you for keeping time, that was a point of fact. Mrs Dostálová is now reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u22	Thank you. Well, I was expecting the city minister to calm down, so I'll do it for him. Please, just to avoid chaos: the 2025 date is related to a substantive amendment. On the other hand, the new construction law in the area of spatial planning has already taken effect as of 30 July 2021 and concerns urban planning that was approved before 1. 1. 2027 and still valid until 31 December 2028. [[Wouldn't]] So just so there's no panic in the cities right now, that something's getting shorter - no, there's really 31. 12. 2028, so also Prague, of course, because I understand that the situation with the metropolitan plan is very complicated, so the new construction law in this applies, date 31. 12. 2028.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u23	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. And I will ask for any final words from the rapporteur. The rapporteur will have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u24	I'm gonna enjoy it till the last minute. So just to sum it up from the rapporteur's position. Of course, as far as the amendments are concerned, that is what I was talking about. They were given under A1, A2 and then under B1 to B5. I'll introduce you to the voting process in the course of the procedure. But what I would like to say as rapporteur is that I really think that this proposal for an amendment to the law, the construction law, is redundant. We should have focused on material problems that - of course, everything can be improved and discussed. This proposal has legal flaws, material defects, but I think it is okay with this Chamber of Deputies. So I just want to point out that, at a time when we have a huge housing crisis, we are putting off the law for a year. We tell all citizens here that the new law with the good things will apply to the state, but no longer to the citizen. We'll have two building laws. Two building laws! New for dedicated buildings, old for everything else. It's gonna be a big mess, of course. In the context of this, the solution of black buildings is also postponed, of course, the system bias can continue to thrill, especially at the level of regions, towns and municipalities. We delay the effectiveness of things that are already in effect, so the question is whether all of this is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic at all. There were also retroactivity granted to microphones here, new concepts such as hibernation in law, so let me just, as rapporteur, of course, I cannot agree with this. I'll be sure... by making a motion to return to second reading, there's been a motion to dismiss, and we're going to vote on all that in a few moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u25	Yes, thank you, rapporteur. I merely recapitulate that we have concluded a general debate in which one proposal was made by Mrs Dostálová, namely a proposal to repeat the second reading in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Two, just to fix the lady. We'll deal with that. Then there would be a vote on the motion for rejection, which was also submitted at second reading by Mrs Dostálová. And then we would move on to the procedure that the Member would read. I'll rejoin them so that all colleagues can come to the ballroom. I've logged the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. Just to add, I remind you that the motion for rejection and the amendments are in the Chambers of Press No 137/2, which was delivered to you on 3 May 2022, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press No 137/3. I repeat again what we will be voting on. In the general debate, Mrs Dostálová made a proposal to repeat the second reading. I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 109 vote, 150 Members were enrolled, 65 voted in favour, 85 opposed. The motion was denied. We should now vote on the motion for rejection, which Mrs Dostálová also made at second reading. I'm gonna start the vote, and I'm gonna ask who's in favour? Let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? 150 Members voted in favour of 63, against 84. The proposal was also rejected. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to deliver an opinion on them in the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to introduce you to the voting procedure. First, it has already been voted, both the return to second reading and the motion for rejection. Then we should vote on proposals for legislative technical amendments, but since none have been tabled at the third reading, this will not be voted on. Then we have the amendments under A1 and A2. These proposals concern the postponement of digitisation by six months, here I propose a joint vote. Then we have proposals B1 through B5 and here I propose to vote each of these amendments separately. I will always say briefly what concerns you to be exactly in the picture of what is being voted on. And the last thing to do is vote the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u27	Thank you. So I will recapitulate, we will vote on Amendments A1 and A2, so you propose to vote on this also in one vote. We would then proceed to proposals B1 and B2 which you would like to vote on separately. I want to ask if there's another proposal for a procedure? If that is not the case, I do not think we need to vote on the procedure and we can proceed to individual amendments. So, rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u28	Thank you. So now I am asking Mr President to put to the vote on Amendments A1 and A2 by a joint vote. These are proposals to postpone digitization for six months. The Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has given a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u29	The plaintiff's position? Sorry. [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 111, 152 Members were voted in favour, 86 voted in favour, against 48. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u30	Thank you. We will now vote on Amendment B, separately, B1 to B5. This is now the first vote I will ask Mr President for Amendment B1. This proposal concerns the abolition of the standardisation requirement and the content of the planning documentation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u31	The plaintiff's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u32	Sorry. The committee's position, I'm sorry, is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u33	Disagreeable. The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Yes, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 112 vote, 152 Members were enrolled, 49 voted in favour, against 84. This proposal was rejected. Please, rapporteur, another amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u34	Yes. We now have Amendment B2. This proposal concerns critical infrastructure as a dedicated construction and the exclusion of the supervision of the designer of reserved buildings for transport critical infrastructure. Opinion of the Committee: disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u35	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Yes, I'll take the vote and ask who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 113, 152 Members were voted in favour, 48 voted in favour, against 86. Nor has this proposal been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u36	We are now before the vote in Amendment B3. This proposal concerns that the construction regulations, their own construction regulations, could have all statutory cities. Opinion of the Committee: disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u37	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Yes, I'll take the vote and ask who's in favour? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 114 vote, 152 Members were voted in, 51 voted in favour, against 79. This proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u38	We are now coming to Amendment B4. This proposal is to resolve the link to the so-called amendment law, which does not contain the amendment. The opinion of the Committee is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u39	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Yes, I will begin the vote on this proposal and ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 115 vote, 152 Members were voted in favour, 48 voted in favour, against 85. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u40	And we have the last amendment under B5. This proposal concerns the addition of Annex 3 to dedicated buildings, namely the construction of a critical infrastructure element and European critical infrastructure and the projects for which a planning contract has been concluded with the municipality or region. Opinion of the Committee: Inconvenient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u41	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Yes, I will begin the vote on this proposal. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 116 vote, 152 Members were enrolled, 49 voted in favour, against 86. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u42	And now the last vote, on the bill as a whole. The opinion of the Committee shall be supported.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u43	Yes. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill, as all amendments have been voted on. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Building Act, pursuant to House press 137, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 117, 152 Members were voted in favour, 86 voted in favour, against 65. The motion was accepted. And I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[A round of applause for government MPs.]] President Schillerová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u44	Excuse me, Mr. Vice-President, I have to get off. What did you clap for? What did you clap for? That you've postponed the effectiveness of the law of the year, that you've prevented people from building faster? Is that what you applauded? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u45	Thank you. Another with priority rights, Mr President Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, government, colleagues, I will lose one sentence, through you, to the President. None of this, dear public, is true, all the Members here know. But I am coming in agreement with all the presidents of the MPs, all in this Chamber of Deputies, with a request, Mr Vice-President, that, in view of the fact that paragraph 115 should continue, the Ukrainian crisis and Mr Vice Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan is currently leading the crucial and key negotiations to address the situation at the Prague Central Station, and of course this is a priority for all of us, so we agreed that we would now vote on the elimination of all the points of this meeting and end the meeting with this. Please allow this procedural proposal to be put to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-005-077.u47	Is this a procedural proposal that I must put to the vote without debate immediately, except perhaps there is a counter-proposal? It's not like that. So I'm going to vote on this procedural proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 150 Members voted in favour of 132, against 2. The motion was accepted. And so we've eliminated all the following points from the agenda, and I'm done with today's meeting. Thank you and have a nice rest of the day and have a nice weekend.
