ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-18-ps2021-042-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 69 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday 11 October 2022. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers and co-workers from the lobby. And I will repeat that we will vote to designate Mrs Barbora Urbanová and Mrs Renáta Bunny verifiers of this meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number one, 120 Members and Members, for 117, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová, and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková, as verifiers for the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I have a message here. Mr. Foldyna votes with a replacement card 31. I agree that by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Heller Šimon within 15 hours - working reasons, Munzar Vojtěch within 15 hours - health reasons, Pošarová Marie within 16 hours - working reasons, Šimek David until 14.30 - working reasons, Voborská Milada from 18 hours - working reasons, Vondrák Ivo within 17 hours - working reasons, Zajíčková Renáta until 15.15 - working reasons. The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr until 15.30 - working reasons, Baxa Martin until 14.30 and from 17.30 - working reasons, Černochová Jana within 17 hours - working reasons, Rakušan Vít within 16 hours - working reasons and Válek Vlastimil within 16 hours for working reasons. Since Parliament's press 284 is included in the draft agenda for this meeting at third reading, we should decide to set aside another day and other hours before the programme is set. We would therefore vote with one vote if there were no objections to this, to set aside another day, that is, Tuesday 18. 10th, for the third reading, and at the same time, we set other hours for the negotiations. This vote is in accordance with Section 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 of the Rules of Procedure and Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure. I will call my colleagues from the lobby, and if there are no objections, we will vote on this with one vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 2 registered 138 Members and Members, for 134, against none. The motion was accepted. Thus, we have set out today's day for negotiations on the laws for third reading and other hours, which means that they will be valid within 19 o'clock. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 42nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] We would therefore now vote on the entire proposal for the 42nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 3, 142 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 141, against none. The motion was accepted. It means that we have approved the agenda of the meeting as proposed. And now we're going to proceed to the one point of this meeting, which is
