ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws / House printing 237/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President, colleagues. I would like to briefly mention this proposed press, House press number 237, and therefore the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. The point here is that, on 1 January of this year, there was a change in the case of foster parents, when two categories of foster parents - mediated and unmediated - were created, with the fact that they had previously simply been the categories of foster parents who received the foster family reward, now a new contribution has been created in the category of unmediated foster care. There's been some distinction between these financial evaluations, and I don't have much ambition to go into at this point. I think there were some arguments as to how to approach this step, as well as the arguments that part of the bathtub is spilling because there are also foster parents who could start taking care of the baby without being mediated by the regional authority, but because, for example, the child was able to find it in the SOS village, kangaroo and so on. However, with this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, we are here trying to heal one issue, where on 1 January, these unmediated foster parents fell out of our pension scheme, into which, say, they were incorporated in 2013, when gradually, when we look into history, the state tried to set positive and more progressive conditions for the appreciation of the precisely foster family, so that we could have sufficient capacity for people who are willing to do that background, to take care of children, to be those foster parents, to reduce the number of children we have in children's homes, in baby homes. So there was also a possibility here in 2013 or this benefit, in addition to the financial reward, in the fact that the person is in the pension scheme, is considered a state insured person, and since 1 January in unmediated foster parents, this option has been lost. When we dealt with the situation of these people during the first quarter, in addition to the fact that they would also like to address the question, even the financial which is now not sufficient time space and which deserves some deeper analysis and perhaps some systemic changes, I finally decided to present at least this amendment, which would adjust the part that is currently concerned with pension insurance, in order to heal some degree of discrimination that has occurred here. So this amendment really solves it so that we can get these people back into the system, and I'm going to go ahead and make some other changes that should be worked out, so it should be more systematic how to adjust the whole foster motivation agenda, their pay, but also their conditions for foster parents to become, and so on. So that's a thing that doesn't belong in this proposal right now. I guess that's the point. If I were to mention the financial effects, we expect these financial impacts on the basis of an estimate of CZK 20 to 30 million per year, in the long term it should fall somewhere to CZK 10 million per year, but I think if we take the costs that we have for a child in some form of institutional care, they range between CZK 80 and CZK 120,000 per month, and this form is not only, say, closer to the really loving parental care that is then provided to these children, it is logically more effective when it comes to the costs that we spend on public budgets. So I would like to ask for the support of this proposal. I recall that this proposal is also submitted by the Government and its approval is proposed under Section 90 at first reading. So much for the introduction, I guess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Navrátil, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u4	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you, as rapporteur, the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws that we have under press 237, which were delivered to Members on 3 June 2022. The draft law brings an extension of the scope of the supplementary periods of insurance into the field of basic pension insurance, namely the so-called unmediated foster family within the meaning of Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on Social and Legal Protection of Children. The proposal aims at persons with children in custody before 1 January 2022, which ensures participation in pension insurance as well as before the amendment to the Act on Social-Legal Protection for Children. The proposal also provides for the possibility of non-profit participation in pension insurance in the so-called adaptation two-year period for persons who have accepted child replacement family care after 31. 12. 2021. Let me also briefly justify the participation of foster parents in pension insurance, which is dealt with in accordance with Section 5 of Act No. 155/1995 Coll., has changed several times over time. In 1996, only foster parents who had foster care in special establishments were involved in pension insurance. From 1. 6. 2005 founded participation in pension insurance not only the exercise of foster care in the establishment under special legislation, but also to foster parents who were paid a remuneration for the exercise of foster care - foster parents but who had three or more children in foster care, or at least one child with severe disability. Another significant change occurred in January 2013. The area of foster pension insurance is substantially extended, and the child care and persons in the register of persons entitled to foster care for a transitional period are starting to be paid to foster parents. The last change mentioned by the Minister occurred with effect from 1 January 2022 when Law No. 359/1999 Sb. in the sense that persons engaged in so-called unmediated foster care cease to be paid by a foster child but are granted a new benefit, a foster allowance, and due to this contribution they are no longer involved in pension insurance. Finally, a summary. The reason for the proposed regulation is primarily to compensate for the change in the conditions for the exercise of foster care due to the law and its amendment No. 359/1999 Coll., on Social and Legal Protection of Children, effective from 1 January 2022. The proposal directly brings the possibility of non-profit participation in pension insurance in the so-called adaptation period for persons who have taken child or child into the foster family care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask you to take your place at the rapporteur's desk. And I am now opening up a general debate to which Vice-President Richterová has signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u6	Greetings, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. Once again, I just want to thank you very briefly again for being able to remedy the situation for the foster family. For the fact that we may be able to do it again very quickly and that the principles now in the family, the principles of wanting as many children to grow up really with a caring person, once, not with people who, even if they can try harder, but when they're taking care of shifts, it just doesn't work so well for those kids. And that as the House, we will show that we appreciate this care. I would also like to highlight the novelty mentioned by my previous speakers, namely the adaptation period. Experts have long pointed out that children taken into the family care, children with traumas, children with a backpack of problems, of course, because they have gone through things that children should not go through, simply have the need to be given much more time and attention when they arrive at a new family. This adaptation period is intended to help them guarantee this attention and time to care for them. I'm very glad we have that included. I'm glad I could be at the start of this adaptation period. And now it's about making a long-term contribution to the overall support of foster care, so that those professionals who go through difficult training, long-time training, really getting service from the state, the support they need. I know it's our mutual interest in this House. At the same time, I know how many competing priority interests there are, so I wanted to highlight these people, their kind hearts, and the fact that, at the same time, of course, they expect support from us correctly and not that sometimes, even by mistake, conditions will get worse for them. We're fixing that, and, like I said, thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u7	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. And now I have two factual points. Mrs Bělohlávková. No? Oh, yes, I am. And Mr Růžička, Mr Růžička, has applied to the facts. No? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And now we have Mrs Lucia Šafránková here. [[Mrs Šaffránková is speaking with Mrs Schiller.]] Yes, and she prefers President Schillerová with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement and the SPD, to give the veto under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. It is not a delaying tactic, but we want to correct some technical errors - it is in agreement - which have been adopted in the field of pension insurance by the last House and are now causing huge application problems. So that's the only reason I'm giving the veto so we can correct these mistakes, and, of course, I'm ready to accept it again, or we're ready to accept the shortening of deadlines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. And now, before I give the floor to Mrs Šafránková, I shall make an apology. Mr Hendrych apologizes for reasons of work between 18.00 and 23.50. Mrs Šafránková. No, not yet. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Výborný, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u10	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, thank you, Mrs Šafránková, for your help. I just want us to hold the line of the debate, follow up on President Schillerová and the club presidents' agreement. We respect the veto on § 90, but I would like to ask that, in conclusion, the first reading of the House press 237 be put to the vote to shorten the period between the first and second reading in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 for one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u11	Yes, thank you, I've noticed. And now I'm going to ask Mrs Šafránková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, as far as this government proposal is concerned, we would support it immediately, but because it contains some discriminatory elements against some foster parents, based only on the date of the child's entry into foster care, I will therefore submit an amendment to it under the SPD. It is a proposal that will adjust the form of the extension of the scope of the supplementary periods of insurance by referring to all unmediated foster parents, not only to those who took custody of the child before 1 January 2022, when the last amendment to the Act on Social Law Protection entered into force. There is no reason to deny participation in the replacement periods of insurance to unmediated foster parents who have taken over abandoned children after that date if they are properly cared for by such children as other foster parents and there is no difference between them from the point of view of legal or factual position. The government's proposal is therefore very damaging to them, particularly socially and economically, in the long term. Let us not build barriers between foster parents who are doing a very valuable and priceless job for society. Let all foster parents, even those unmediated, have the same rights and the same conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, Madame. And now Mr. Juchelka is in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. This is, of course, a retroactivity that will be dealt with backwards in some way according to the way in which this amendment of the law was adapted here during the last parliamentary term. However, in this last parliamentary term here, this amendment, which I, too, authored, has greatly increased the welfare of foster care for long-term and transitional foster parents, and we have put the valorisation in this mediated foster care right here to a minimum wage. And we also valorized and put a minimum of life benefits on the valorisation mechanism in unmediated foster homes, such as relatives. The main change there is that it is not exactly a new contribution in foster care, as the rapporteur Navrátil said, by means of you that this is a test dose. On the contrary, we have changed that it is an untested dose. This means that all relatives of the foster family get it without some kind of asset, savings, or income testing. This is a great shift, because anyone who has, for example, their grandchild in foster care will receive at least 12,000 crowns of clean for a healthy child within four years. And that's why it's been modified because it's supposed to get as close to the family as possible and how the family cares, not de facto so that some of the relatives of foster parents, grandmothers and grandfathers who are still of working age, maybe 46 years old, write me grandmothers, so that they don't de facto work and actively participate in how the child grows up in their family and how they raise it. That means, the result was to bring the family as close as possible to the common family where grandmothers and grandfathers take care of their grandchildren. So I also thank you for the adaptation bonus, that's definitely a step forward. That means that actually a child who is above his age, and that relative foster parent doesn't receive parental allowance, so there's gonna be an adaptation bonus, which I'm just saying. So thank you very much. And we will certainly look forward to some deeper reforms within the framework of the social and legal protection of children, not just for the sums, but for the whole reform, the care of vulnerable children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? It's not like that. I'm asking... Mr. Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u16	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to request and make a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to one day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-002-002.u17	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. This proposal has already been made. So is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? It's not like that. I conclude the general debate and ask for final words. Mr. Minister, Mr. Rapporteur? Not interested. The application for repayment of the application and the motion for refusal were not made. And since the veto has been raised, i.e. an objection, we will now consider the proposal for the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President By its decision, the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We can therefore proceed to the vote now. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 160 Members and Members registered, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. We would now vote on a proposal to shorten the period between first and second reading to one day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 161 Members and Members signed up, for 147, against none. The result is therefore that we have adopted this proposal and the deadline has been reduced between the first and the second reading to one day. That's right, okay? Thank you. And I'm now going to end the discussion of this point and we're going to proceed to the discussion of the point number
