ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended / House print 176/ - second reading I would ask, and I see that the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, is already present for the plaintiffs. At the same time, I would ask that he also take the rapporteur's place. I have information here that there will be a change in the rapporteur, and that is Mr Kukla, so I will ask. And now I would like the Minister of Finance to present the proposal. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u2	Thank you for the floor. Let me just remind you that on March 22, we discussed this proposal in the first reading. The Government has proposed that this be discussed in a shortened format, which is already in the first reading according to § 90 para. 2. This has been vetoed. The hearing period between the first and second readings was reduced to 30 days from the House's decision. This bill was discussed by the Guarantee Budget Committee on 30 March and 13 April when it recommended adopting the Bill to the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the House. In other words, this means that no amendment has been made before the second reading. I have last checked on 21 April, no proposal has been submitted to the system on 21 April, but it is possible that such a proposal will fall today in a detailed debate. The main reasons for submitting this proposal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u3	Minister, I apologize for interrupting, and I would ask all Members to remain calm in the Chamber - if there is anything you need to discuss to go to the lobby. At the moment, the Minister of Finance is speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So the main reason is the implementation of the revised version of the directive laying down general arrangements for excise duties. The aim of all these changes is to eliminate tax evasion in the field of excise duties. Thanks to the electronization and unification of the whole process, administrative costs will be reduced. In addition to the transposition, the government has already incorporated a fundamental comment from the Confederation of Industry and Transport in the original draft law, in order to maintain the possibility of returning beer to the conditional exemption regime. We accepted the offer and have already included it in the text of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u5	Thank you, Minister, for introducing this proposal. As you have also said, we ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 176/1 and 2. I would now ask that Mr Kukla take the floor as rapporteur and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any amendments, and at the same time to justify them. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I mention that the Guarantee Budget Committee has discussed the bill and issued 13. 4. 2022 resolutions recommended by Members as press 176/2. No amendments have been tabled in the Committee's deliberations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u7	Thank you and I will now allow myself to open a general debate. I'm going to ask if anyone is reporting for a general debate? I see Madam President of the ANO parliamentary club, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say very briefly that this amendment, apart from the one exception that the Minister said goes beyond mandatory implementation, is indeed an implementing amendment, and we know that the law on excise duties or excise duties is the most harmonised instrument or even harmonised law within the European Union. The directive on general regulation is then its basic instrument, and the directive sets rules so as to avoid excessive bureaucracy, formalities during border crossing - negotiations in order to get out of this phase on European soil - and is primarily focused on the effective functioning of the internal market of the European Union countries. [[11.20 hours]] I actually confirm that on behalf of the two clubs, the ANO and the SPD movement, I vetoed approval here in the '90s, but not because we had any problem with this amendment, but because we needed a technical debate with the experts of the Ministry of Finance, which took place on the budget committee, to ask, because the entrepreneurs said if it meant any increased costs to them. We were assured that I did not, nor did I notice, I think that in the context of the comment procedure - even though some representatives wrote to me - I did not notice these objections. In particular, the role of the directive is to ensure control of the movement of selected products imported from countries outside the European Union. A clear interconnection of electronic notification systems for the movement of products under conditional exemption regime is hereby established. trying to see why we even started negotiating about this, why I was involved in this, why I was very busy doing so as Secretary of Finance, it was precisely the elimination of tax evasion during the transport of selected excise products from or to third countries. So once again, I stress that honest business is one of the foundations of fair competition in the free market. With regard to other innovations, the currently functioning paper-based system, or the paper-based regime, will be replaced by an automated electronic system that will allow the transport of goods in real time and the full electronicisation of the monitoring of the transport of certain products between Member States - the content and forms of electronic accompanying documents for both modes of transport of these products between business entities will be consolidated within the Commission act. Furthermore, there is also the introduction of so-called partial losses, which means the loss of selected products due to the nature of the goods occurring at the time of transport of these products, and the creation of these partial losses does not link the directive with the obligation to grant and pay the tax, unless, of course, they reach a fixed minimum threshold. We certainly support this amendment, we are ready to vote actively for it. Following clarification of some of the technical and technical questions for which I thank the experts of the Ministry of Finance, we will not submit an amendment to the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-27-ps2021-019-02-002-005.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really ask you to remain calm in the Chamber, and if you need to deal with something - you are certainly dealing with the issue that we are discussing here - please go to the lobby. But it's not just this side, it's both sides. So I would like to say that I know that the speakers who are always at the speaker's desk, and I know that myself, I'm sure that's very disturbing in the speech. Let me ask - at this point, I do not have an updated application for a general debate. I ask, am I looking around to see if anyone else is reporting from place to general debate? I don't see anyone, so at this point, I am ending the general debate. I'll ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they're interested in the final word? They don't. No proposals have been made, so I would like to start a detailed debate. As has been announced, there is no amendment in the system, I have no registered application. Still, I'm going to ask if anyone's reporting from place to place for a detailed debate? I look around the O.R., I don't see anybody, so I'm saying I'm ending a detailed debate. At this point, I'm going to ask again if there's interest in the final word? It is not, also from the rapporteur. No proposals have been made, so at this point, I am ending the second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister of Finance, I thank the rapporteur. And now we're getting to the next point, and that's point two, which is
