ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u1	115. Introduction of the Government's Strategy for the Management of the Ukrainian Crisis To this point, on 11 May this year, you were sent by e-mail material which was later delivered as House document 781, and I request that the Prime Minister and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister, Ministers, fellow Members. Thank you for this opportunity, and I promise you that I will not be here to explore, and on the contrary, I will try to get to the debate. I want the ministers with their strategy plans to come forward, and I will try to give it a roof introduction and then I would like to, and we have argued about it so as to open up the classic debate, not only to take the path of priority rights, and to actually get into the debate with the ordinary Members and with their comments. Just a brief summary to begin with. The Russian invasion has been here for almost 80 days, and we have found ourselves in a situation that was unprecedented, and I just want to pretend that there were no plans for this situation in the Czech Republic. There was one big plan for a large-scale migration wave that was quantified at 20,000 refugees a month. We had 20,000 refugees basically in the first week of our crisis, and in the scripts that we had linked, we got from the green to the black, which, by the way, requires an emergency instrument, as defined in it, within a few days. So all those reactions to it must have been fast, operational, and completely new. We have already basically created a basic system on the first crisis weekend, which is now in existence, that is to say the National Assistance Centre for Ukraine, which is located on Kloknerova Street in Prague at the Fire Department, and under this was the Regional Assistance Centres for helping Ukraine in each of the regions of the Czech Republic. It was the principle of entry into the Czech Republic of rapid, effective clearance, cooperation of police, trade unions of asylum and migration policy, labour offices, all appropriate bodies, which, in fact, in a very short and record-breaking time during the illustration and compliance with security criteria, enabled the entry of people from Ukraine who fled to the Czech Republic before the war, the labour market, allowed them to consume the benefits of the social system, did not leave them without money and did not leave them without shelter. What is also fundamental and needs to be realized: we listened to some of the results from STEM survey here last time, but two basics did not say: 70 percent of the people in the Czech Republic support aid to refugees from Ukraine and 63 percent of the adult population in the Czech Republic have been actively involved in some way in helping Ukrainian migrants. It's an amazing report card for our company, an amazing picture, and it's something we can all be proud of. It's not some opposition versus coalition duel, it's not a duel between the county and the government. Of course, we will discuss many things, but this is a social issue where the Czech Republic has succeeded as a state. We have shown that we can help and that our reputation as a self - centered country is not true, and we will succeed in decisive moments and we will manage. [[10.40 hours]] At the same time, it is necessary to realize that we have handled the situation in the Czech Republic. We have over 335,000 issued temporary protection visas, and out of that, we have just a thousand people staying in some kind of emergency accommodation. Everyone else received accommodation of classic stone type thanks to people in the Czech Republic, thanks to owners of various accommodation capacities, but also thanks to the organization we gave it. From the beginning, logically, there was a demand for strategy. We've been strategic since the beginning. If we do not proceed strategically, they will not be the KACPA and NACPA, which are copied from us by other countries of the European Union. Now there's a regular communication platform with the captains that takes place week after week. It wouldn't be a system that works to absorb people, pay them benefits, allow them to live here and enter that system. But of course, strategy is necessary, strategy we need, strategy must be alive, open and evolving over time, because here we have many external inputs to the whole issue. First of all, we have Putin factor. He started the whole crisis, it's Russia's aggression on Ukraine, Ukraine's a victim, and we just hope that millions more people are not moving in Europe. Of course, then we also have to react strategically and adapt our material to changed conditions. One factual point. We were tasked by the Chamber of Deputies by 14. 4. this year give strategic material. We've put in the system material related to strategic bases. Another and only term we have given to the Chamber of Deputies, and you can check it in the system, the term is 18. 5. It was given to us by the Security Committee, and there we have to introduce an innovative and developed strategic basis. The fact that we're debating here, and that's our whole opening debate that you gave us and didn't give us the materials to discuss, we gave you the strategic starting point 14. 4. A further document is to be submitted to the Security Committee in accordance with the resolution of the Security Committee up to 18. 5. In the meantime, there's some debate going on. We gave you a presentation that charts progress in what the strategic management of the crisis has done since it was 14. 4. but a comprehensive document or further procedure is to be presented 18. 5. This discussion is logical, it is beneficial, but again I just point out that we are moving in the terms that we give ourselves, and we do not burden it with other considerations. About the document itself. From the beginning we were based on five main pillars and values: humanitarian helpfulness, support and cooperation, practicality, simplicity - not at the expense of citizens of the Czech Republic - and flexibility, agility within the whole material. The crisis has three stages: 0 to 30 days behind us, the struggle for safety - ensuring food, safety, warmth, shelter, basic health care. We did it. Phase two: 30 to 180 days, in which we are now, we call the stage of adaptation and coexistence - language, education, housing, health, strategy preparation, preparation of employment strategy, preparation of the economic balance sheet, impact of the migration crisis on the Czech Republic in the short and long term. And, of course, this is also happening with the Czech Presidency within the European Union, where this must become a dominant issue, and we must be able at a European level to have the impact of an absolutely changed geopolitical situation after 24. 2. know how to solve. Third phase: 180 to 360 days, long-term solutions - Integration, return, renewal, Czech Presidency of the European Union. Note to phase three as such. Of course, here we come to the moment when we have to talk about whether we are in adaptation or integration, and those two words have different meanings. Adaptation is the adaptation of people who came from Ukraine to life in the Czech Republic - Allow them to live here for some time. Integration is a process that leads this person to enter Czech society and become a part of it. At present, we do not know how long the migration wave will last. Experience from other migration crises says the following: if it ends within six months, there are no more than 10 percent of those arriving in the target country. If it lasts a year, there are some 20 to 25 percent of those who are interested in staying in the country. If it lasts for a longer period of time, two or three years, at that point, the numbers rise significantly, and of course it depends on the geographical proximity. According to the sophisticated estimates we have, we can then talk about up to 40 percent of people. On the other hand, I repeat again, this number - so that no one here can push me, as is a good custom, something else - is at a time when the crisis lasts for years, not in the short term. Currently, and I would like to stress this, we do not provide long-term stay in the Czech Republic for those people. We do not provide them with long-term asylum, we provide them with temporary protection. And if temporary protection ends at European level, those people have to go through a classic application process for some type of residence permit in the Czech Republic, but temporary protection ends. The temporary protection does not automatically melt into the fact that the person gets another residence permit in the Czech Republic. Of course, it depends on how the temporary protection institute will continue to be defined. So far, it's defined by 31. 3rd next year. And, of course, the Ukrainian party's interest is that the elites of society don't leave them. The interest of the Ukrainian ambassador to, for example, doctors and doctors - 80 per cent of women there - needs to be realized - went back to Ukraine to give them short-term contracts, that is the idea of the Ukrainian party. We don't force anybody's style of how it's supposed to go down here, we allow alternatives. We also want to allow teaching in Ukrainian and so on. On the other hand, we need to be able to adapt our system of education, health, social to the maximum numbers without knowing if we can reach them. In one district town, typical, medium-sized in the Czech Republic, there was a survey of 700 refugees from Ukraine last week. And the question you want to stay here in September, do you want your kids to go to school? The answer was 400 out of 700: We don't know. They really don't know yet. That's why I'm saying we have to prepare our systems for the maximum numbers, but those numbers might be different, because if the conflict develops in some positive way and allows us to return home, then the vast majority of people in the first phase will also want to go home. I'll continue with the strategy itself. We do not depart from crisis management, we do not invent any substructures, so far the government has designated me as national coordinator, coordinator for strategic communication by Mr Klíma from the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic and the person responsible for summing up financial claims against the European level by the Minister for European Affairs, Mr Mikuláš Bek. At the same time we have created twelve working teams, we are in close cooperation with regions, cities and municipalities, associations, associations, external experts and the non-profit sector. Twelve working teams are the following: coordination and organizational security team, legislation, digitization of management, accommodation, housing, social area, education, health, adaptation and integration, internal security, EU, international strategy, strategic communication, financial support from the EU, employment, integration into the labour market. Individual teams meet on the platform of the strategic management group, which I am responsible for. In fact, these meetings are in most cases managed by the director of the Fire Rescue Corps Vladimír Vlček, who has been responsible from the outset for the architecture of the basic model of the National Assistance Centre and individual regional assistance centres to help Ukraine. [[10.50 hours]] The presentation that has been made available to you, and there will certainly be questions about it, is a management summary for each group. The work of individual groups will also be presented by individual ministers, who have all signed up with priority rights to the discussion as you wished. Of course, we are also dealing with what the economic impact on the Czech Republic will be, what the long-term outlook looks like. And here's the numbers to surprise everyone who looks at this thing just negative, they're getting pretty interesting. By the time 30 percent of our people are working and 30 percent of our people start taking money into the public health system, it stops being losing money and, on the other hand, the health system itself can make money. In the medium term, we can say that, on the contrary, sometime in 2025, the proper adaptation of people to life in the Czech Republic can be a positive phenomenon for state budget revenues and GDP growth in the Czech Republic. At the same time, we are working on the so-called dashboard, which we have already introduced to the captains. It is an overlap of various maps, which are here, which map educational capacity, health capacity, labour market opportunities and accommodation options. We will go into details of each individual village in the Czech Republic. Dashboard has already been shown to the generals on the pilot last week. She was with them, if I'm not mistaken, some practical meeting to lead to some improvement. Reservation, and justified, by your means, Vice-President Vildumetzová, the legitimate reservation is that the exact awareness of where the migrant is located in the Czech Republic, where the refugee is located, that we do not have the perfect overview. Yes, the reservation is relevant because these people came in, gave some addresses, stayed in the Czech Republic, changed the addresses, many failed to comply with the obligation to let them know that the address is changed. We had two systems beside each other. Thanks to Colonel Šnajdárek and the assistance of the Army of the Czech Republic, we have created a system of HUMPO - humanitarian aid. In addition, we used the CIS, the basic register used by the foreign police. Now we have managed to connect the systems, connect the data, connect it to the system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and at this point, next week, and that is the answer to the question, there is a pilot project in five ORPs in the Republic, where local investigations will also verify information about where the people in the Czech Republic are, where they are, and whether it actually corresponds to the real reality. In those five ORPs in the Republic, we will evaluate the results and, if the overlap is smaller than we would have expected, we will come up with a crisis measure that will give the obligation, a reporting obligation for each of those refugees following the welfare benefits, as well as for every resident who believes that the person actually lives at the address reported to him. Here we will certainly be with some degree of error, but certainly with much more precision than now by the deadline that I promised once in the Chamber of Deputies, that is, until 15 June 2022, able to say exactly what the occupancy of which regions, as it looks in individual regions, and then the instrument that we create, especially for the level of local, hetman, regional, municipal, means the map background, very user-friendly dashboard, will make sense. There will be data that will actually tell you where these people are, and we can work with it as part of school and kindergarten entries, we can work with it in the healthcare system in the Czech Republic, we can work with it in the labour market demand, and we can work with it in the important thing that we are talking about, which is highlighted by Mayor Hřib, some relocation. We're just answering a little bit that temporary protection as a legal instrument doesn't allow mandatory relocation. And how would they work? We put people on buses, we take them somewhere, we drive them? Of course, we are creating, and we will be presenting this next week on the strategic group - I will already have it available on Sunday for the first time at Václav Moravec's debate, today or tomorrow it should be done - a series of motivational factors of a variety of characteristics that we will apply in order for voluntary relocations to take place within the Czech Republic. Of course it's difficult, but I don't think we're gonna be able to help each other by closing the regional assistance centers to help Ukraine. There are, of course, specific problems within the 335,000, and let's face it, I admit them, and I think yesterday, during the interpellations, it was probably even heard. Of course, the main station and people sleeping on the ground are something that is on the brink of a humanitarian problem. This is a problem not only of reputation but also of fact, because they are mothers with children, and we cannot apply any prejudice, and certainly not of race. We need to get those moms and kids some beds so they don't have to sleep on the ground. But what's the problem? There are those with dual citizenship among this specific group of migrants, especially Hungarian, who have dual citizenship. And if they have Hungarian citizenship, they are not entitled to social assistance in the Czech Republic - neither to benefit nor to be included in the accommodation system, nor to any other benefits that we have prepared here. They are citizens of another EU Member State and this assistance is specifically intended for Ukrainians. At this point we use the Hungarian side to illustrate these people, and these are mainly those who are at the main railway station, from today or from tomorrow in the tent town of Prague-Troja. It's not about us starting camping for refugees and some ghettos. It's not like that. At this point, we have built a tent town where the person from the point of view of the law can be a maximum of 30 days, and rather a shorter time, because either he is entitled to accommodation, then he is back in the system, or he does not, then he is a citizen of another Member State of the European Union, and then, of course, he is a person who can move here, but we are doing everything we can to motivate him to return to Hungary. And even with the Minister of Transport, we will come up with a solution to how to do this and try to get these people to return to Hungary. Yesterday I telephoned the Hungarian Interior Minister for half an hour, explaining to him that we are the second most affected country, Prague is cracking in seams, the capacity of many regions is exhausted, and that the Hungarian party has to build on the fact that we will simply not take care of their citizens in our territory and we cannot take care of them within an objective perspective. They're out of the system, and that's what we need to say. The Hungarian minister promised me and made available to the head of the Hungarian Foreign Police. I have commissioned Police President Vondrášek to ensure that people's illustrations take place in the order of hours, at most short days, but certainly not for weeks, because it causes us a humanitarian problem here in Prague. For your information, out of strategy. In Prague we have two other real estates, stone properties, so it is no luxury, but we are definitely able to accommodate people there. We'll organize it, get them food so they don't have to be at the main station. At the same time, they have used all the options that I am not going to publicly communicate here in order to find out how trips are organised for benefits from the European Union. The authorities designated in the Czech Republic are working on this. I should have that report next week. I'm sure I'll put it at the disposal of the Security Committee Members in the regime and in the closed negotiations, and I'm sure they'll get it from me next time. However, before I speak to other colleagues, let me say that the strategy here is, the strategy is a living document, the strategic bases are being implemented as defined by 14. 4. 2022. Specific terms are given, individual ministries have implementation plans and clear responsibilities. We try to solve problems that arise logically and operationally. And of course, there will be many problems that have not been included in the strategic document. [[11.00 hours]] But let's say one thing and let's say it with a certain amount of pride - and now I'm not talking about the political party or the political representation. The Czech Republic managed, the Czech Republic managed to accept more than 3 percent of its population, give them accommodation, facilities, safety, food. We did it. We can be proud of our people, we must not let xenophobic screams scream, we must realize that we are helping war refugees, especially mothers with children. There are almost 45 percent of the children, and of the adult population, of the adult population, let someone question the mathematical calculations again, 80 percent of the women. That's the song of those who come here. They're not freeloaders, and if there's any misdemeanor or anyone who doesn't qualify for the benefit, they won't get it in the Czech Republic either. We are also discussing how to tighten the second to sixth doses so that people are not motivated to return. It will be bound to solid accommodation and proof of accommodation in the Czech Republic. And the first dose - we are looking for a way with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, as in cases where the state provides food and accommodation at its expense, this financial benefit could only be replaced by a provision of food and a basic material provision to reduce people's motivation to come to the Czech Republic for a dose. Thank you to the firefighters, thank you to the police, thank you to all the officials, thank you to all citizens of the Czech Republic, the nonprofit sector. I thank all those who have been able to help and create the system that has stood up in the Czech Republic, to create a system that works and that can do it in the coming weeks and months, because the strategy we have for managing this crisis is quality, open. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u3	And thank you, Minister. Before we proceed under the priority rights whose applications I'm registering, I'll read the apologies. Today, from 13.30 to the end of the day, for health reasons, Mr Špičák apologizes, from 11.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Jan Bureš apologizes, today from 12 to 16 for reasons of doctor's visit, Mr Lukáš Vlček apologises, today between 11.30 and 14.00 for reasons of work, Mrs Ivana Mádlová apologises. I am also late to load a note from Minister Vít Rakušan from 10 to 10.30 and from 12 to 17 apologizes for reasons of work to Mrs Milada Voborská. Minister Petr Gazdík will now speak under priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly show you what has been going on in education in the last three months, how education has responded to the arrival of Ukrainian refugees. To begin with, I would like to say that we are not helping Ukrainian refugees and Ukrainian children at the expense of Czech children and their parents. There are parties and there are individuals who are trying xenophobically to push this claim, but it's not true. It is clear that we have placed entries in Czech schools and kindergartens for Czech citizens, Czech citizens have entries in schools and kindergartens before Ukrainian children. And you, sitting in this House, voted for it in your vast majority. In kindergartens there were nearly 13,000 vacancies in the last April, over 150,000 vacancies in primary schools. We've done it for now. Teachers, school directors and founders, to whom I would like to thank for their creativity, for their incredible invention, how they take care of every Ukrainian child individually and try to find what is best for a particular child. If part of the opposition has run on rhetoric: You prefer Ukrainians at the expense of our citizens, then it must be said: It is not true. The truth is that there will be a little more pupils in the classroom, the truth is that somewhere they may have to study for shifts since September, but Ukraine is at war, Ukraine is attacked by the Russian Federation and we will either help or say clearly: We will not help. As Minister of Education, you may suspect that I will always prefer the first, so that we are not like the famous satirical series - we will give them all the support except for help. We responded immediately and we are recognised for this in the European Union. As early as March 21, lex Ukraine, the education measures, for which I would also like to thank you colleagues across the political spectrum. He allowed the children to absorb the tension, untied their hands, allowed exceptions. We immediately began to identify the free capacity of schools in individual regions. We have detailed information, we have maps, we are equipped with data and ready for September 1st. What is big unknown is what will happen next, if the conflict in Ukraine gradually calms down and ends by September 1st, and on September 1st we will have half of our children, or we will continue to congratulate the conflict and we will have roughly twice as many children here on September 1st. We're going to do both. We have started language courses for children and young people in different ways. We allocated 150 million crowns for the call for courses. We have allowed Ukrainian high school students to apply to Czech secondary schools. According to some, conditions were too mild for them, others were too harsh. For me, it's a sign that the settings were balanced. We have released money for schools, increasing the reserves of regional authorities for the activities of schools. For the period until August it is CZK 2.3 billion, for the period for September and December the inductive cost is up to CZK 5.9 billion. On 11 April we announced a call for a grant to support free-time adaptation groups for children from 3 to 15 years of age, amounting to CZK 1.25 billion. The number of Ukrainian students admitted to study will be taken into account in the funding of universities. The costs are calculated at this time at 1.29 billion crowns. At the beginning of May, we agreed with the Ukrainian Ministry that school attendance in the Czech Republic would be recognised to children after their return to Ukraine. What awaits us and what we have to do: we have enough places in schools, but unfortunately, free capacities do not overlap with accommodation places and places where moms can easily get jobs. That's the task we're dealing with now. We must ease Prague and the rings around Prague, where the situation is really the most serious. We still have a strategy that we do not want to create enclaves of Ukrainian classes and schools. We want to educate Ukrainian children in Czech classes. As all expert panels and experts point out, in terms of avoiding future problems, creating different ghettos, it is the best integration into Czech classes. Not everywhere, somewhere better, somewhere worse, somewhere worse, somewhere smaller, somewhere smaller. Our task at the moment is to prepare the law of lex Ukraine 2, which will allow this and which I assume will be discussed in this House in the next two months. It is necessary to pay attention to young refugees aged 15 to 18 who are no longer subject to compulsory school attendance by law, and local authorities are often afraid of social unrest, because even a low percentage of them are expected to become part of the labour market due to the ignorance of the Czech language, concerns about the unknown environment. In conclusion, I would like to say that we can handle the situation and we can handle it. I would like once again to thank the directors, teachers, assistants, Ukrainian assistants and all school staff and kindergartens, who are very grateful. You guys did great. Thank you for that. Please let's not freak out, there won't be one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u5	And thank you, Minister. Now with priority rights... [[Vice-President Mračková Vildumetz off the microphone: I prefer the Foreign Minister.]] I will move your application, Madam Vice-President, for the application of Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský, Minister of Health Válek before Minister Jurečka. I will now ask Minister Jan Lipavský with priority rights... [[Voice off the microphone.]] In that case, the Minister of Health. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u6	As the sněmovna says, I'll do what I am. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I prefer to write it down, to have it written, to sum up so that I do not make a mistake, although it is incredibly humiliating for me to read something of paper in the Chamber of Deputies, I consider it the pinnacle of incompetence when this person does not know these things from his head, but well, I do not know them from his head and I would not be able to say it correctly enough, and I will therefore do so in this way, because you deserve to have accurate, detailed information and to know exactly what is being done, and that my ignorance or ignorance may not cause a mistake or misunderstanding. The fact is that the health sector is currently not collapsing because of the Ukrainian crisis. There are UA POINTs, it turns out that UA POINTs are a very good solution, working very well. We are setting up paediatric UA POINTs, and I would like to thank all the captains for being more than perfect with them in this area, is very correct, very serious, and it does not matter, which I am extremely pleased, which political party the Governor is from, I personally appreciate. We did what we did to send all the mayors information, where a practical physician is available, where a gynecologist is available, where a child pediatrician is available. I am fully aware that information on where spare capacity is available in a number of regions does not solve the situation in many places, because long-term medical population is getting older, the problem is getting deeper in the long term and it is not easy and will not be easy to solve in a systemically and simply. It is a solution that we will have to discuss intensively, but that information has not yet existed. This means that we have harmonised the insurance data, we have harmonised the data of professional companies, the UHIS and we have used this situation to make sure that there is a clear map of the availability of doctors, so that they have the regions, so that they can have it in cities, and that we can, in cooperation with insurance companies, if any doctor refuses to fill the capacity so that we can deal with the situation with insurance companies. With regard to drugs and aid to Ukraine, we have acted in such a way that we have approached pharmaceutical companies and distributors and sent out a whole series of trucks with original packs of medicines for Ukraine so that it doesn't cost the Czech Republic and in no way are medicines that are from Czech pharmacies, from Czech hospitals or at the expense of Czech patients. They are extra drugs, they are gifts from pharmaceutical companies organized by distributors, and I have asked from the start - and I am glad that the public has listened to me, I am very glad that all those who wanted to help me quickly - so that pharmacies do not buy out, so that the medicines do not be sent by individual routes, because what is essential and crucial to me absolutely, not even a hint of any deterioration in the availability, quality of care for Czech citizens, for Czech children and there must not be any deterioration in the availability of certain medicines. That is why we have increased the vaccine requirements by 20 percent, we have increased the WHO requirements, and this is where this is gradually being implemented. We have created communication cards in Ukrainian and Russian, including psychiatry and pharmaceutical care, so that communication is as simple as possible for both parties. In a number of UA POINTs, Ukrainian health professionals have been working here for a long time, and it is necessary to thank very much the community of Ukrainian health professionals, who is in the Czech Republic, who is working with us, paying taxes, helping Czech health care that they have entered into the process very actively, that they have given me some suggestions and information on the way of the Ambassador. And I can now say that, for example, this morning at the meeting, I was discussing better clarity of the tests for Ukrainian dentists - I believe that the path is not entirely happy with the tests carried out in this way. We agreed to change the testing so as to improve the quality of the tests and in doing so, we allowed everyone - everyone interested in learning - to pass the test without any problems. Of course, we do all this in cooperation with colleagues from Ukraine. We set up an information line, the number of the line is 420 - of course the Czech Republic, what is important - 226 20 12 21, option 2. In operation is the line from 8am to 19am, is available in Ukrainian, Russian and Czech, gets there every basic medical information for Ukrainian refugees, there is assistance for Czech doctors who need help, advice on communication with Ukrainian patient - that is, if there is a health professional in the Czech Republic who feels he has a lack of information, this line is the line that answers him. The crisis staff of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic is meeting once a week, which is managed by Mr. Deputy Director Dvořáček. As part of the crisis staff, we communicate not only with associations and not only with the Council of Providers, the Scientific Council, which has even met specifically because of this, but, of course, with all experts as we were used to in the case of covid. Further health information is available on the website of the Ministry of Health www.mzcr.cz/Ukrainian, i.e. standard websites over Ukraine, where we update the information. There are answers to most of these questions, and there are instructions on how to proceed in situations that are, say, less common. There is also a special section for health care providers, i.e. for hospitals, health professionals, for all providers, where all methodological instructions are available. I don't want to take responsibility for providers, I want to, if there's something I'm ordering it to be my regulation, and I'm responsible for it, and all the opinions of the Ministry of Health on individual procedures, so that doctors and medical facilities, providers have something to lean on and are protected by the Ministry of Health. These opinions are, of course, consulted with professional companies, ftizeological companies and others, and they need to be thanked for this, they are very actively approaching the issue, as well as the National Institute for the Management of the pandemic. Contact, which is for any questions, is Ukraine@mzcr.cz, where a web address is established, which is served by two employees. Here you can send offers of larger medical assistance for Ukraine and also send written questions there, similar to the telephone line. Then we have established pages of health professionals.Ukrainian/mz.cr for questions about the employment of health professionals from Ukrainian refugees. There are not many paramedics, but here we are prepared to provide legal, professional and any other assistance in the case of the employment of Ukrajinec. Public health insurance and health care for Ukrajinec: all Ukrainian refugees who have a visa, are state insured, over 318 000 persons, and are entitled to the same care as Czech insured people. They have no priority over them, there is no command that Ukrainian refugees should be preferred. They are exactly the same as Czech state insured people, with the difference that they are young patients. I got a presentation from Professor Dušek that he printed for me. I thought I'd show it to you, but then I felt sorry for you, 'cause we'd be here by tomorrow. So very briefly. The population of refugees is mainly in the age group of 5 to 40 years, it is a gros curve. And if we compare this curve with how much care is worth for state insured people in these age categories, then these categories, namely categories 18 to 40, are categories that, even if they are state insured people, they pay more for them than they draw, so they are an asset to the system. Every ukrajinec, who is in the age category of 18 to 40, does not draw as much from health insurance as the state pays for it as the state insured. It is the same as with Czech insured people. [[11.20 hours]] All directly managed health organizations are set up by UA POINTs. UA POINTs do not have the objective of giving priority to Ukrainian refugees, but the objective is very pragmatic and I think it is reasonable. Of course, many refugees do not communicate in Czech, and at UA POINTs we are ready - and I am very, very grateful to all the directly managed and regional hospitals that have established them - to communicate with them in Ukrainian or Russian. For this reason, we could prevent other ambulances and emergency income from being overwhelmed in hospitals. It is not in any way a selection, it is active help to overcome language barriers, very similarly - and colleagues know this - it is done, for example, in the case of some major international races where it is necessary to communicate with foreigners in English, German... We are doing this at the Brno University Hospital to warm up my local soup soup when the Brno Grand Prize was taking place and we obviously had a reinforced emergency on German speaking colleagues because most of the campers were from Germany. We are preparing UA POINTs for children's beds - and this is already underway - with the support of the respective associations and I would like to thank immensely - no one believed me, I was not sure if it would succeed - but that all three associations, i.e. Dr. Šebková, Hülleová and Professor Manďák, sat at one table. Together they agreed not only on how to help cope with the refugee crisis, but on how to increase the availability of pediatricians for Czech patients. I consider it an incredibly positive step, it was not common before. The way I'm explaining it is that the three top doctors have been saddened by the poor radiologist as minister and have decided to make a deal and that they will help me, and I really, really, really thank them for that, because we have to realize that we're not here for us, but we're here for patients. The Czech Republic has asked the European Union and UNICEF to increase the supply of medicines for tuberculosis, HIV, immunoglobulins and anti-allergics and other vaccines, these deliveries are gradually being realized and are, of course, largely covered by UNICEF or EUC. A vaccination calendar of Ukraine has been provided from a professional company. We discussed the vaccination calendar with the Minister of Health of Ukraine plus WHO information on vaccination. Here I would like to say that vaccination in Ukraine is of course not as high as in the Czech Republic, but very different cities from municipalities. We are mainly fleeing refugees from large cities, which is quite logical, where the vaccination is higher. On the other hand, the inoculation of Ukrainian children is by no means on the brink of the European Union's inoculation; there are completely different countries on the brink of the inoculation of children in the European Union. The inoculation of Ukrainian children is very similar to the inoculation of children in Austria, for example. The Czech Republic, by the fact that children's vaccination here is high, is, of course, protruding from this, let's say, the full standard of Europe. Of course, we offer all refugees vaccination against covid-19 disease and, of course, testing. As part of primary care, attention is paid to the occurrence and examination of TB. We are aware that in Ukraine there are some subtypes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which are not common in the Czech Republic. But here I would like to say pragmatically again: there are several hundred thousand agency workers in the Czech Republic who are men who are at risk of being a source of tuberculosis, a theoretical risk far greater than that of young women, yet this concern has never been. Tuberculosis fires are monitored in the long term for these agency workers. Yes, there are areas, typically Plzeň, where the incidence was longer than the average of the Republic, if I remember correctly - I already feel I don't remember everything correctly, but this is what I think I remember correctly. And so, of course, we're monitoring both the subtypes and the map. Employment of Ukrainian workers: I would like to comment marginally on this here, if there are any questions, I would like to add that. In principle, we have created a system to quickly employ Ukrainian workers. We have created courses of professional Czech, but the aim is not to save health professionals from Ukraine and control the Czech health market with them. The aim is for the limited time that they will be in the Czech Republic - that limited time is given by the end of the war in Ukraine, by the victory of Ukraine or thus by some peace - so for that limited time they will be able to help Czech health care here, they will not lose their qualifications, and possibly those who want to work in the Czech Republic under standard conditions so that they can work in the Czech Republic. Again, it is something that will then have a long-term advantage for Czech citizens, because the number of health professionals in the system will increase, but under standard conditions, must not deteriorate the quality of care and must not, of course, be those who would not have the appropriate nostrification and so on. I can tell you the details. Education of refugees, courses in Czech or aprobation is provided by the Institute of postgraduate education in health care. I regularly communicate with the Director in this regard, yesterday we had an appointment when we met at the Florence Nightingale anniversary of the ceremony to the top nurses, and we also discussed what else can be thought of and how it can generally be used to improve the course system for foreigners who are interested in working in the Czech Republic. MŠMT with the Ministry of Education of the Czech Republic provided financing of these courses and detailed information is available on the website Doškolovák, respectively on ua.ipvz.cz. We communicate these things on Facebook, on Twitter, I could give you links to those websites, but you can easily track them. What awaits us, and what do we plan to do next? The current topics that we are dealing with now: we are dealing with insurance companies on the topic of payment of performances at UA POINTs, because I do not want hospitals setting up UA POINTs to pay for this. We deal with hospitals, how these performances will be honored and paid so that the insurance company is okay, so fine, and UA POINTs worked well. We need to thank the paramedics who work there very much. We set criteria for early decision to ensure the transfer of patients from UA POINTs to other countries of the European Union. It is mainly rare diseases, central diseases, some expensive medicines, the Czech Republic has provided adequate care for citizens of the Czech Republic. We know exactly what the spare capacity is, and we're going to use the spare capacity to do this. I would like to thank, in particular, the Children's Oncology Department of Motol University Hospital and the Children's Oncology Department of Brno University Hospital. I could say the names of both my colleagues, but I might be overreacting. However, these hospitals provided care not at the expense of Czech children, but provided care for about 20 oncological, hematooncological children from Ukraine. We're part of the redistribution system. We know where our potential reserves are, we know where we have top workplaces, where we can help. As always, the Czech Republic helped. Remember that English boy who was treated with a gamma knife in our Proton Center. We are debating the financing of activities related to the influx of refugees into the Czech Republic, on the one hand, with departments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, but of course we are also debating with the European Union, clearly calculating costs and expecting this to be covered. These are the financing of courses and internships, the treatment of the costs of treatment of unregistered refugees, which is the same problem as all those who are in the Czech Republic and do not pay insurance - and such a group of people exist. We're looking for this solution systemically here, and I hope there's some kind of amendment that will solve it for the rest of the uninsured. We finance grant programs from the project Crisis Ukraine, the project is very carefully discussed. The introduction of patients from UA POINTs through other routes than the EWRS, which is centralized, can of course happen, but it is again under the control of the Ministry. I would say a typical example, these are dialysis, where in no way can dialysis be available for Czech patients. And we have to redistribute these around the Czech Republic. But it needs to be done again, because this is an acute matter, not to offer the dialysis. We have the system perfectly mapped out now, we know where the premises are, the tests and the treatment is fully covered by the insurance company. And where there is no space, we send patients from Ukraine to other countries within the EWRS system. I would like to highlight the cooperation with Professor Štěrba, my colleague, and I dare say a friend who is engaged in these topics. We were talking about how to solve some of the problems of orphanos and center medicine in children's oncological patients in general. He invited the President of the European Children's Oncological Society here, and I will meet them on Brno's oncological days, and we will deal with the situation systematically in the light of the Ukrainian crisis, not only in order to benefit Ukrajinec, so that we can deal with Ukrainian children with rare diseases, but then use the system to improve the treatment of central and orphano for paediatric patients. Jarda, thank you. [[11.30 hours]] Of course, a more significant promotion of the Ministry of Health's activities is important. For example, as I mentioned, it's the treatment of cancer patients. Today it's 47 pediatric oncology patients, and I've seen some of those kids, I've talked to their moms, and I don't think I could do it again. I suggest you all know those sad stories, and I am extremely proud of our medicine, and I am extremely proud of our childhood oncology, because these 47 children here, I dare say that we saved their lives. This is something I think any Čech, every Czech doctor and one of us sitting in this Chamber of Deputies can be proud of. Finally, we decided not to accept WHO recommendations because they had the idea that doctors would fill out a 37 - page form, even in writing. So I've decided to risk the problem, I've banned this here, and on the contrary, we're going to create an electronic form that will serve. On the contrary, I convince colleagues in other countries that it is not possible to burden health professionals with further written work and 30-page forms. Now I'm getting close to the end. The project Crisis Ukraine sets ten objectives of the project and I will briefly allow myself to read the objectives: [[1.]] Providing primary care for Ukrainian refugees with minimalization of the impact on the availability of care for Czech citizens. Expansion of the existing low-ground ambulance system, UA POINTs for adult and paediatric patients. 2. Providing and monitoring the capacity of specialised hospital and centre care, setting border parameters for the activation of EU energy mechanisms, transferring and sharing patients within EU Member States, within EU Member States - to make this understandable. 3. The introduction of a basic health inspection of Ukrainian refugees to ensure basic health documentation and minimise epidemiological and health risks. 4. Providing medical documentation for Ukrainian patients outside the existing system of registering doctors, practical and children, possibility in cooperation with WHO, but very cautiously, in the context of administration, in the context of improving the care provided and avoiding duplication and overuse. You need to be very careful and careful here. [[5.]] Overview of primary and bed care capacities and connections to the MVCR system, monitoring the distribution of refugees in the Czech Republic, and this is happening, systems are connected. [[6.]] Providing medicinal products and vaccines whose availability could be compromised by an increased incidence of disease or infections associated with an increase in the number of patients, a) providing vaccines whose availability could be compromised, b) ensuring medicinal products whose availability could be compromised by an increased incidence of disease or infections associated with an increase in the number of patients, we have succeeded in doing so and we are working on it. [[7.]] Involvement of health professionals from Ukraine into the health care system in the Czech Republic with regard to their status - temporary protection - and the legal system in the Czech Republic and the EU. And here I have to come here and I have to confess, and frankly, I'm ashamed of it easily: we're not as fast here as I would have imagined, and we're not moving as fast as I would have imagined. The problem also requires a change of some laws, and that is not just the Minister of Health in power, it is in the power of the Chamber of Deputies. [[8.]] Rationalization of the status of state insured for Ukrainian refugees staying longer in the territory of the Czech Republic. We would like to stimulate the inclusion of persons with temporary protection who are capable of employment into the category of state insured persons of the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 180 days - so that everyone can find a job and become standard insured people, those who can. [[9.]] Ensure coordination of humanitarian aid for the people of Ukraine in the form of supplies of medicines, but not at the expense of the Czech market. And that's what I did, as I reported. Finally, which is very important: Providing support for mental health, psychiatric treatment and providing care for drug addicts. [[10.]] And here I would like to thank non-profit organizations, the drug coordinator and others who are working very hard on it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried briefly to sum up a number of these things and I apologize for reading this, but I am only a Minister of Health. Those who mostly take credit for the success and that it works intensively are the unpopular officials, the health department workers who spend tens of hours doing it, who really work in an incredible way, and I would like to thank them enormously for that. It's Deputy Director Dvořáček, who coordinates everything and does it 24 hours a day, including weekends. Those are the ones who managed to handle the medical part of the refugee crisis, I'm nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u7	Thank you, too, Minister. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka is now registered with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u8	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, colleagues. Since I think there is also a need for room for discussion, I will try to be really brief and sum up some of the essential things that concern this strategy, its starting points and the current situation of the refugee crisis that we have here in Central and Eastern Europe. I'll take the specific programming parts that we are dealing with as a department of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. With regard to the first part concerning social services, here we really - and let's say support for children - have also prepared a financial subsidy title here, as the Ministry, which supports the activities of NGOs at this rather difficult time, when these activities are important for us in that these people are in Kacpe, helping these people from the point of view of integration, in terms of connection, for example, how to go to school, to ensure entry into kindergarten and so on, so we have ensured that these activities are financed, so that NGOs such as diaconies, charity, the Salvation Army and others have not dragged it out of normal funds, where it is not even possible to finance it. We have also ensured that when people with a serious type of disability come to us in the Czech Republic so that social services in the Czech Republic can also receive them and take care of them. It's also set. At the same time, it is also set for rules on how, above all, Ukrainian women can be employed in social services, where they can start working as carers today. The terms are defined, it's happening. We also deal with the children's care agenda, children without an escort. On this we cooperate with the embassy, we also cooperate with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in Ukraine. We had a meeting together. Today, we are also preparing a mutual agreement on how, let us say, this will also be formally supported, not only on the basis of the communication that has been running so far. The key is that we do not take any non-refundable steps in terms of adoption, adoption and so on, until all things are clarified, but at the same time that care for these children is provided in the quality that we can carry out. Another key area for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is the support of the people who come to us. This means that we have implemented a system of humanitarian benefits that is simple, administrative, at the same time creating a framework for these people to have some minimum security so that they can pay their minimum costs, which must simply be paid by each of us who have to exist in some way, so 5,000 crowns of humanitarian benefit here is. At this point, it's the end of August. We are counting on it to be extended so that this humanitarian benefit and principle will be until the end of the law, which means by the end of February 2023. We are looking for ways and principles to adjust the humanitarian dose, its form of distribution, and its size, so that we may find motivational factors, how to possibly reduce this humanitarian dose over time and motivate people to try harder to find their own jobs, their own work. We have built a solidarity contribution to this, which covers the costs of Czech households, which have provided shelter. We are now counting on its update during June to further support the accommodation capacities that might still be offered, and to those who own the apartments or properties, this amount is sufficient to cover possible adaptation costs. This means, we are counting on the adjustment and the creation of, say, two levels of financial appreciation of those who provide different types of solidarity accommodation. Well, that's the thing. Of course, another very important step is the whole labour market agenda, where the Czech Republic is currently in a situation where about 45 000 women who came to the Czech Republic are already working today. It's the highest number we have from all the states where people from Ukraine come in. We're taking other steps to make this number grow. Now we are really launching full language education, which is the key to a successful adaptation to the labour market. Sylabs have been completed in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. And we are ready to finance language courses in companies, language courses that will be done by NGOs, schools, universities and so on. That's what we're doing. So the assumption is that a relatively very high percentage of those who have come from Ukraine and can work, that we can involve them in the labour market. Obviously, this is something that is positive for the whole society as well as for revenue from the state budget and public budgets, because the activity of these people is logically translated into higher incomes, so then every citizen of the Czech Republic is also a beneficiary. [[11.40 hours]] In addition to the fact that outside of the direct revenues to the state budget, it is also a benefit that these people help to hide long-term vacant jobs, then increase the economic performance of companies and, at the same time, increase the availability of certain services, such as in social or health areas where personnel capacity is lacking in the long-term. We will continue in these matters, we will continue in language education, communication with companies is running and at the same time we are developing support for Czech companies, Czech households, we have discussed this here several times in the House. I do not want to delay the debate in this regard, however, what is important when we sum up: if we now do those steps as the Czech Republic in terms of help, adaptation, or integration phase really well, which is what the cooperation of the department teams is really trying to do, it will have positive effects for the Czech Republic in some medium- and long-term terms, not only in terms of income in public budgets, but also in terms of strengthening the labour market and the development of our economy. So much for short. Thank you for your attention, I'm ready to answer specific questions afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u9	Thank you, too, Minister. I'll read the apologies before I give another word. From 11.30 to the end of the day of the sitting, for reasons of work today, Mr Aleš Dufek apologizes, and today for all the reasons of work, Minister Stanjura apologizes. And next with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow ministers, I would like to ask the President at this point, because the ministers have already spoken, whether it would be possible, and I have also consulted the Minister of the Interior, that a debate would be opened at this time, which means that, if necessary, speakers could make themselves known by means of factual remarks, because the time limit for discussion is short. Minister, do you agree with this, and everyone else? At this point, we must have a debate at some point, because it is only until 12.30, if the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Home Secretary, agrees, agrees, well. So the debate would open at this point. Thank you very much, and I'm sure thank you for including the material today. I'll try to be factual, argumentative. At the outset, the Minister of the Interior, to whom I would most likely respond, said that, of course, it was an unprecedented situation. We all know that, but today is the 78th day since the start of the war. Did the Czech Republic really make it through the first phase, and did it through whom? She managed it thanks to the citizens who helped in the accommodation. We did it thanks to the mayors, thanks to the captains, thanks to the firefighters, the police, the volunteers, because people gave financial contributions. And that was the first phase. But in phase two, in the adaptation and integration phase you're talking about, we really need a strategy, a plan. We need to know. You, Minister, said that you put the first document into the system by 14 April, which was the setting of strategic priorities, when we clearly said that this was not the plan, and you said that at this time - and I would like to point out that at that moment you were bound by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which clearly said that by 14 April this strategic document must be submitted to the handling of the refugee wave - at the same time you said that the Security Committee gave you the deadline of 18 May. So if I were to assume that 18 May is in a few days, I would just like to say that the Security Committee is an advisory body, which means that if he adopts a resolution, he must be confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies. The resolution of the Security Committee was that it asked the various ministries concerned to elaborate the proposed measures within their managed departments and their scope for the three scenarios presented, i.e. if 300,000, 600,000 or 1,000 migrants came to the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I still don't see it in the document, in the management summary. I'm so glad you admitted today that some of these systems - or most of these systems aren't working. I'm sure my colleagues from the Security Committee will respond, and the people, the mayors, the captains, because they have that practical experience, and we, as we speak, draw it from them that the systems aren't connected, that the systems aren't functional. You're on a regular basis, and I thank you for that, you're meeting the captains. It says several times that the systems will already be connected to the Foreign Police systems, but they haven't happened to this day. It amazes me that there is a system for accommodation providers, which are regions, municipalities, guesthouses, hotels, these are legal entities, and then there is a second system that is at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and there are those accommodaters - natural persons, that means that if someone makes their apartment available, they can get an amount from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for it up to CZK 12,000. So really, the record, the fact that we have a clear indication of how many people are in the individual community, in the individual region, is really a key figure, because that's the only data that can be based on the setting of employment, health needs, social and education needs. I certainly appreciate the fact that the pilot project is currently underway in those five municipalities with extended scope. I'm just curious how we're gonna learn about the performances, how it turned out. But I really don't think that time and not knowing the data, we don't know the dates these people have of education, what kind of profession they are, we still don't have of this data, and the data is very important. You told us here today that you again approached the pilot project of 700 people who came, whether they wanted to stay here or not, and that 400 said they didn't know, but 300 said it was decided in a way. But I mean, that's why it's so important that we have a document that's gonna model the situation for us, because at this point, we already have 340,000 registered people fleeing the war, and we need to have a model that if we keep 20 percent, 50 percent, 80 percent, then how many of these accommodation capacities do we need? How many places will we need in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools? How much will we need in terms of employment and other things? So I think that the figure is also important, very key, and that it is necessary to work with this data. At the same time, what is happening at the main railway station in Prague at the moment, I really believe that this situation should have been dealt with much earlier. When I, Minister, draw from the 14th April documents, although I criticize that there are no deadlines, that there is no responsibility, I learned in this document that the Administration of Material Reserves will take 17 humanitarian bases into emergency supplies, including equipment for 150 people. I understand that it would be 17 times 150. And these are the modular units that have been mentioned in many media. And if I take it now, the month has passed, I'd like to ask if we have the troops? Because yesterday you gave the order that the tent town in Troja would start to be built, and as I had the opportunity to see, it was built by firemen - thank them very much - but military tents are built there, not any modular units. And I think that since April 14th, or when the material was formed, it's certainly been enough time for these things to take place. [[11.50 hours]] At the same time, you said you spoke with the Minister yesterday, your counterpart from Hungary. I certainly appreciate it, too, but I think it should have come much sooner. My colleagues from the Security Committee - and they will certainly confirm it, I was not on the Security Committee, so now I'm interpreting what they told me - pointed out to me that as early as March, they warned you that you should take action on what you will now request when you negotiate it with the Ukrainian side, so that it was clear and the passport stamp was that these people crossed the Ukrainian border. And I am sorry that when my colleagues advised you on the Security Committee in March, they called on you to do so because many of them have experience in the security field, that you have not responded and that it is practically coming now, and as I was able to register, the meeting with your counterpart from Ukraine failed. I understand that this is probably very difficult, but I think that meeting with the Ukrainian Interior Minister is important, and if it doesn't happen again until next week, then the situation - you see what it's like, because now you're gonna build a tent town for 150 people, but there are 600 people at that station! Then who will go to the tent town? And I still think the terms, even if it's for a short time, aren't permanent, it's just temporary... I understand you have to wait for the illustration, but I'm simply convinced that the reaction from your side should have been far earlier. At the same time, I would like to ask if it could be answered why, because we have information that next week you should come to the government with an extension of the emergency situation, so if you could tell us what the reason is, if it's still a high number of refugees, if it's connected to the accommodation. I understand you're going to submit this to the government, but if that's possible. Of course, I am very positive about Mr. Vlček's work and Mr. Šnajdárek's work, and the fact that you have now come up with the dashboard system, yes, but I also think that there will still be a lot of unknowns, because at first you said they would connect the systems, now they're coming back with a new system. The last thing that bothers me very much is that the mayors, or the commanders of those regions, have not received a crown yet. If I take it for a covidal time, take it today, 78th day. Nor have the 10 million individual regions received, and I think they have it on their shoulders, that they have done a really good job and are doing the job, but at this point, they need leadership, they need to manage the refugee crisis, and the main person to run it. is the main national coordinator, the Minister of the Interior. And I would also like to invite him to say that when he's talking about it - "I'm still the national coordinator" - I think we should be clear about who the coordinator will be. It's impossible to change it, and the Minister knows it, and we've already called him on the Security Committee to face it. He must be the national coordinator. He's the Home Secretary, he's the head of the Central Crisis Staff. So I'll be glad, and you've told me this a few times, but today I was surprised to hear the words here today, I'm the "yet" national coordinator. So, Minister, I want to give room to my colleagues as well. I must say that the chapter of the Ministry of Education, which I would like to highlight, is being worked out best, yet I, Minister of Education, am still concerned and worried about the lack of places in kindergarten schools, so if you could also answer this question because I am surprised that the subsidy programme, which has opened up for accommodation, has only been opened at the Ministry of Regional Development and concerns accommodation. I'm sure my colleagues will be getting off soon, and they'll tell you that none of these mayors want to enter this grant degree about accommodation, about increasing accommodation capacity, and we're amazed that they're not dealing with any grant title yet just to increase their capacity in kindergarten schools or to sort of deal with it, because everyone, and I'm also a mom, and the lack of places in kindergarten was before 340 000 people were here fleeing before the war, there was a shortage of pediatricians, there was a lack of practical doctors. And last, and I am really finished: what surprised me very much is what I would like the Minister of Health to do, that you want to repeal the measures of 14 April in order to introduce a compulsory health inspection of Ukrainian children before entering primary, secondary and university schools, so if the Minister of Health could comment on this. Thank you for your attention. I am, of course, ready to discuss, but I want to give room to my colleagues as well. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u11	Thank you, too. I am registering other applications with priority rights here, but, as has been announced, on the basis of a mutual agreement that no one has disputed, I am now opening a general debate. Minister Jan Lipavský, then President Tomio Okamura and then Mr Jiří Mašek with the club's position, is the first to be entered in the general debate with priority rights. [[Mr. Vondrák's avizo.]] In fact, before I give you the floor, I note, but factual remarks in the debate can only be applied as a response to the ongoing debate. For this reason, someone must speak first in the general debate and they can be answered with a factual remark. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start the debate with my speech so that factual remarks on my speech can subsequently be made. I will follow up on my previous speakers, who have described a number of issues primarily from internal policy and the way in which the government approaches this. I think it is unfair of Vice-President Vildumetzová to say that it is not clear who is responsible for solving the problem. Of course it's us, it's the government, and I think the role of the Ministry of the Interior is absolutely crucial and clear. Minister Rakušan, Vice Prime Minister Rakušan certainly does not run away from any responsibility. On the contrary, we faced the problem head-on, and on a practical level, those files are handling it really well. And after all, it was said here, how it is coordinated and integrated by the rescue system, so here I think that the government can really proudly sign up for it and get a good grade. With regard to the foreign policy foot resolution of the crisis, of course the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is active in a number of issues and it is a clear foreign policy interest of the Czech Republic that we need the war in Ukraine, Russia's aggression against Ukraine, to end as soon as possible, but also to end in our favour, in a sufficient way not only to support Ukraine politically, militarily, but also to create conditions where other states help Ukraine. That is why we are making the most of our membership in the European Union, in the North Atlantic Alliance, creating conditions for support for Ukraine to be a stable element of all the other countries where we communicate in this way. We are part of a fairly clear and determined group of states. For example, I myself am intensively communicating with Germany, with German representatives, with the public, to push public opinion precisely in favour of supporting Ukraine. The Czech Republic bears a great migration burden, we take care of more than 340 000 refugees. It's carrying its problems, I don't think anyone's covering it up. We are looking for solutions and we are also appealing to foreign partners to help us with this solution so that the Czech Republic can receive some extra funds, and this will, of course, help our budget. That's absolutely crucial. [[12.00 hours]] But the priorities, and especially in terms of foreign and security policy, are quite clear. We simply need to prove that Ukraine will succeed and that the Czech Republic will not be unprecedentedly threatened by this Russian aggressive behaviour. I think everyone knows what World War II meant, everyone can look at Europe's history, what it means when European states are at war when the population is moving. That's something we just don't want them to come back to Central Europe anytime. That is why we will also focus our Presidency to a large extent on the foreign side in support of Ukraine, we will look for additional funding for the possible reconstruction of Ukraine, and we support all other activities that are largely not purely government, but they are activities of civil society - and I liked that Vice-President Vildumetzová also mentioned, because the solidarity of citizens, when citizens send money, whether to humanitarian or even military collections, is really amazing. I think the whole Czech company here deserves great thanks and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also plays a role in approving public collections and we fully support it. Finally, I would like to mention one thing that has gone through the media, and that is - it is to a large extent symbolic, but it shows how we are quite clear in our foreign policy - we were elected to the UN Human Rights Council to a place that was released by Russia after the suspension of the rights. And it is the Czech Republic that voted yesterday in favour of a resolution that extended the mandate or refined the commission's investigative mandate to deal with the atrocities committed by Russia in Ukraine - killing the population, systematically moving nearly 1.5 million people somewhere to Russia, drifting across filtration camps. All of this needs to be investigated, because brutal crimes against human rights are taking place on Ukraine's territory today, and it is necessary to find out, in order to have details, so that international courts can investigate it in some way. Unfortunately, what we are remembering here on various occasions towards the end of World War II is simply happening in Ukraine today. Otherwise, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with other authorities of the state administration, is preparing the so-called Magnitský Law, a penal law. I will bring him to the government during June, I will introduce the proposal to the public, and we will finally have a law that will in some way allow us, if someone is blocking any names from the European Union, including their own names on penalty lists. So much for the foreign policy part of what the government is doing. I understand that this does not necessarily necessarily contribute to the solution of a painful specific problem that can be seen somewhere, such as at the railway stations, but in the long run it creates conditions for us to be able to stand up as the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u13	Thank you, Minister. Your performance brought up eight factual points. I just want to believe that a factual remark is not an attempt to skip properly entered into the general debate, which is seven. However, on the first point of fact, I invite Mr Vondrák. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u14	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I will calm you down because I can only skip myself as the first registered. And let me react briefly in those two minutes, because I think it's important. First, I will use an old Czech proverb here for Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister Rakušan: Pride precedes a fall. And I don't think we can be proud of that yet. So far we are somewhere after the first stage, when we have accommodated a lot of people, but I assure you that a constant number of new refugees and accommodation capacities are increasing every day, not to mention those who are really, as they say, exactly, especially vulnerable, otherwise inadaptable, who, of course, are starting to have problems with accommodation not only in Prague, please, but also in other regions including ours. The second thing I would like to mention here - and that's another saying, let's say, businessmen, who talk about who doesn't measure doesn't drive. The third week - and you may remember - of our meeting with the chieftains, I said one important thing. We need to create a system that records the movement and where the refugees are located. Without this, basically, both the health system, the school system and, of course, the accommodation and social system cannot be dimensioned. And I appreciate the fact that this first version of dashboard has already appeared, and I really commend it. I think something similar to the Smart Quarantine that still works and provides very valid data about how the epidemic is moving today. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Yes, thank you, so I'll quit. When is this gonna work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u15	Thank you. Let's keep this up for two minutes, please. Another point of fact is made by Mr. Žáček. Mr. Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would go back to what the Vice-President said, and I would react a little to some things. This is where she put her colleagues down, criticizing the Security Committee. I would defend the Committee on Security as a whole because we are very detailed about these things, from the left, from the right, we do not distinguish coalitions - the opposition. It is a matter of national security, and it is therefore necessary to say that, as a whole, the committee takes a comprehensive position that supports the government in this sense of resolving this part of the crisis. I would like to quote the resolution from the 9th meeting on 14 April. Firstly, the Committee takes note of the information provided in the document Setting strategic priorities for the Czech Government to manage the refugee wave related to the invasion of the Russian Federation into Ukraine and supports and appreciates, which is fattened up, the Government's actions and individual ministries regarding the resolution of the current crisis. This was given to us by the Minister of the Interior here. He appreciates the work of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic, the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy, individual regions, cities and municipalities, employees of education, nonprofit organizations, labour offices and all others who participated in the management of the refugee wave, and then asks for the document, which should be by next week, until 18 May. So I would like to say that, as a whole in this sense, the committee is acting as unitedly as possible, and the criticism, the critical questions, which are both in the open negotiations and in the closed negotiations, are understandable. As a whole, we can agree, which is why I'm only a little resisting the piercing of some critical voices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Nacher. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question in response to the Foreign Minister's speech, especially because he represents the Pirate Party. I will now act as a Prague MP and representative. In the last two days, I have recorded active communication from Mr. Mayor Zdeněk Hřib, who has called on the government to start work on the creation of a system for distributing refugees around the regions by next Tuesday, because there is really no room in Prague, and if it doesn't, Prague, according to Mr. Mayor, will close the assistance centre in Vysočany. I'm reminding you, there's already been a tent town in Troja, what's going on at the main station, you probably know from the media. Well, I'd like to ask, because it's a unique opportunity to ask, because the mayor represents the Pirate Party, which is also part of the government, so he's actually telling his own government where the buried dog is? If the government has something prepared and the Mayor doesn't know it, then it doesn't inform us about it, or the government doesn't have something prepared, it leaves a fourfold number of refugees in Prague, if I read correctly, in comparison with the average of the rest of the regions, so if the ministers could answer me in some way so that I, too, in some way, know how to deal with the information in relation to the Mayor of Prague's capital. I don't really know whose side it's true right now, and the absurdity of it is that he represents an entity that's part of the government, so I don't understand it twice. [[12.10 hours]] So if my colleagues can answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u19	I also thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr králíček, Mr Okamura will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u20	Mr President, my colleagues taught us in corporate management training that we should start positive, so I would like to express my positive appreciation for the fact that this item is on the agenda, but that is all. I think that two hours of discussion on this point is not enough, which is why I would like to call on the President of the Security Committee from this point of view, whether we could place this item either on the next Security Committee or if we could call the Security Committee on it, because I could respond and I have a lot of questions for both the Home Secretary and the Foreign Minister, and I don't think I have a chance to get an answer to them, because if there are six people behind me and some of them who are still acting with priority rights, we won't get to those answers with all due respect. However, I would ask one question, because at the moment, as my previous speaker Mr Nacher spoke here, Prague, Brno, Pardubice is being dealt with and I suspect that some migrants are staying at the railway stations, and I would like to ask how the negotiations with Hungary by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior take place, and whether the statements of the President of the House, who, as President of the House, was quite cruel to Mr Orbán before and after the elections, as it showed us in the morning towards the opposition. Well, we can handle that, but this is quite a problem that might complicate this thing for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u21	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Okamura is signed in, Mr Kobza will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully here to the government ministers' speeches on their government strategy for migrants from Ukraine, and, if I sum up briefly, the government absolutely did not answer my Tuesday questions about the impact on Czech citizens, and it absolutely did not refute the concerns of our citizens about the deterioration of the availability of health care, the deterioration of the quality of teaching in schools, because of course there will be more children in schools, absolutely did not refute citizens' concerns about the threat to our citizens on the labour market caused by the influx of cheap labour from Ukraine, and absolutely the government did not refute citizens' concerns about the deterioration of security and the situation in the rental housing market, where prices for Czech citizens as a result of migration rose sharply. The highlight of the government's speech here was that they quite senselessly identified these burning questions from thousands of citizens as xenophobic and fascist, without offering any solutions to citizens. It's evidence of great cluelessness. I have been watching the media closely, and one of the government Members has already said what a real government strategy is regarding Ukrainian migrants towards Czech citizens. Prime Member of the Government's TOP 09 Ondřej Kolář said: "We will have to delete the difference between the incoming and our citizens. Soon, refugees will also become Czech citizens." I would like to stress that full responsibility for the resolution and impact of the current situation on our citizens is borne by the government of Petr Fiala. And you want to create new voters when your trust drops? So what will it look like for our citizens with access to health care, for our children in overcrowded health care and the situation on the labour market? And when will you finally make time for Czech citizens to increase energy, food, housing and fuel, and start dealing with it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u23	Thank you for keeping the time, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I appeal that we do not abuse factual remarks as an alternative to speech, and I will ask for Mr Kobza's speaking table. Ambassador, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. We have heard many comments about the integration of incoming from Ukraine. I would like to know one thing that has not been mentioned here, because many of them are educated, specialists in their fields, especially in medicine, doctors, nurses, and if we are talking about their integration, we are actually witnessing a large brain drain, a large brain drain, which will then be missing for the necessary reconstruction of Ukraine. So I wonder if any of the ministers who have spoken here have taken this issue into account. The second thing that did not come out here and which I had the opportunity to see as a precedent in Jordan when, after the Syrian war, a number of seasonal workers and refugees actually came out of all the wars around, whether it was Yemeni war, Iraq war or Syrian war, were willing to work at a very low price in an effort to make a living. So they knocked down the cost of the job itself and basically wiped out Jordan's middle class. So my question here would be what kind of plan the government has to protect the Czech middle class, because middle class, that's the backbone of society, that's the part that pays taxes, the part that basically requires the least of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u25	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Koten. Mr Bašta will be ready. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to some of the speeches made by the ministers, but we still haven't learned how they are, or whether biometric data are stored in the database because I think it's pretty straightforward. I think we all know there's a huge corruption in Ukraine, there's any passport to buy, basically anything, even a new identity, so we don't even know if we have people here who haven't been punished or been released, but they have enough resources to buy a new identity. Furthermore, since people who are registered in our system or have made their way across borders can move completely freely throughout the Schengen area. I wonder if the incoming database is completely shared throughout the European Union, or if it is just our database, or if there is no database, because if a person comes, asks for a benefit, then he can go to another county or county town, ask for it again - it applies, of course, to bank accounts and banking identity. So there's a circle closing down here, and since there's a relatively widespread organized crime in Ukraine, there's no secret here, so I'm wondering if there's a chance of spilling this organized crime here into the Czech Republic. It is a perfectly legitimate question, I think, it is not xenophobia, but it is a precaution, and this preliminary caution should be given to the security forces of the state and, of course, to the Ministry of the Interior, to which Minister Rakušan is therefore in charge. Those are my questions, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u27	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Mr Bašta, followed by Minister Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on this. We should also discuss, among other things, the security risks of migration. One of them is in front of our eyes, what we're talking about here, about the Romec people who are at the station, so there's a rumor that it's organized, it's just not known by whom. On this occasion, I would remind you that we experienced something similar, not directly, but the countries of the European Union in the autumn, when Belarus brought migrants to the border with the Baltic States and Poland. The same applies to organized crime, because one of the first ones who always get on the move is people who live - some 5 percent of men, for example - who have criminal tendencies. In this case, the Czech Republic has quite a good opportunity to capture all this and try to at least record it, if not directly prevent it, because under Ukrainian laws, and we cooperate with Ukraine, men between 18 and 60 years of age must not leave its territory. [[12.20 hours]] So in this case, I wonder how the Ministry of the Interior will respond to this, whether it has plans to prevent a hybrid war from happening that was in Belarus and which migration of the Rom reminds and how we will prevent the arrival of new forms of organised crime. [[The President: Time, Mr. Ambassador]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u29	Time, thank you. Thank you very much. Please observe the time and the fact that we have to respond to previous speakers in fact. Now, on the point of fact, Minister Rakušan, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll try fast. I'm sure I'll check in again. I was fascinated by the phrase I literally wrote to myself by Vice-President Vildumetzová, and I quote: "And we have clearly said that this is not a strategy. " And we made it clear that we did, because it was a strategic starting point that was being developed over the next few months. So, Madam Vice-President's opinion, I would like to differ. Let's keep going. The data from the CIS, Madam Vice-President, to answer, are already tilted into the HUMPO, implementing the military. A lot of it's already available at this point. Dashboard has already been launched in full version for some Prague circuits. Mr Director General Vlček, I answer to Mr. Governor Vondrák, claims on 31 May 2022, I once promised here at the Chamber of Deputies that by 15. 6. 2022, for sure. I hope the director is right. Of course, I remain the national coordinator for the duration of the emergency, and I would very much like the Vice-President of the House to respect that we have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies and that the government is deciding, and if the government decides to replace the coordinator, I will certainly be relieved, but I certainly do not oppose the decision that I will lead the position - and the discussion with the Vice-President and others. Response to my colleague Koten, if I am not mistaken: the Czech database, of course, exists at European level. We repeatedly point out that these systems must be connected. The European Commission itself made an ambitious commitment of 31. 5. 2022, I hope it doesn't last much longer. With regard to all those remarks on dangerous people, 80 percent of the adult population of women, 45 percent of the total children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u31	Time - thank you. Another point of fact, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, will be prepared by Member Ryba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Home Secretary, I really believe that what you have presented to us to this moment is not the plan, it is not the data, it is not the model situation. If this number of refugees remains, I am not convinced that everyone will have sufficient health care. I don't think there'll be enough pediatricians, that there won't be enough pediatricians, that there won't be enough places in kindergarten. I can't imagine what it's going to look like now that Prague wants you to make a political decision in quotation marks about redistribution to other regions. You know how the regions reacted if you're picking up residential facilities in Kramolín, Boskovice and so on. That time is really relentless, and that is why I took the liberty of proposing a resolution that I would like to vote here shortly before 12.30, and that we recommend that the materials that you have put forward to the present time be discussed in the committees that are concerned with this, in the ministry of health, education, social policy, I think that the Committee on Public Administration should also deal with this, there are mayors there, and that the committees come out here to the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, recommend that the Security Committee renegotiate the current material without delay. At the same time, we call on the Minister to manage and coordinate the refugee crisis properly, even after the emergency. At the same time, we call on him to deal with the situation in busy cities - Prague, Pardubice, Brno, maybe there are others. At the same time, we call on the Minister to present a real strategic plan for managing the refugee wave. I made it, thank you. And one last...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u33	Thank you. Your time is up. With another, with a factual remark from the Member of the Ryba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I must thank all those who have managed to cope with the refugee crisis, namely its first part, the first stage, especially all citizens, all municipalities, cities, regions, and especially all organisations involved in this, and again in particular the firefighters themselves, because I think you all know where I come from, what organisation I come from. I've had a whole series of questions here, unfortunately I won't be able to make it. I would like you all to take me on that I certainly do not want to stir up any xenophobia, I am not hostile to Ukraine because I have many friends in Ukraine. I like Ukraine, and I helped Ukraine many years before there was any war. I'm going to say a little exaggeration now that even before maybe a lot of you knew anything about Ukraine at all. That one of my questions, which is for the Minister - and I say it quite responsibly because I want to help - is whether you dealt with the strategy or not - and now I don't mean what has already been said here that he will come here for the benefits, he will leave, whether he buys what he buys for it, that's his problem - but whether there are cases of those benefits being sent, a number of these benefits, to one account, and if so, if anyone wants to deal with it, because that's what I've heard. I'm not flattering it at all, but it's one of the problems, because then the doses don't serve the ones we've assigned them to. Those doses should primarily serve them, and if they do, they need to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u35	Thank you for your attention, thank you for your performance. Another point of fact is that of Mrs Válková. Let me just remind you that at 12.30 we will have to interrupt this point and continue with the fixed item number 77, but we will certainly still be able to make one factual point. Apparently, MP Válková is not in the hall, so her point of fact is failing. Following is Mrs Oulehlová, I do not see her either. Another point of fact, Mr Mašek. Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes, maybe one final point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u36	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to Mr Rakušan, I will respond to the other debaters, and at the same time I will say the position of YES 2011 at least in this form. Migration is well managed by municipalities, regions, their officials, health professionals, teachers, firefighters, policemen, companies and citizens of associations in organizations or as individuals, and for this they owe a great thanks. The government is acting, but it is not helping the regions. The promised specific migration plan developed in such a way that it is applicable does not exist. In view of the large increase in refugees received two weeks after the start of the conflict, which was 10 March, we asked Mr Rakušan's Security Committee for a migration plan. The migration plan was designed to clearly serve the managers concerned in education, health care, people and businesses providing accommodation, so as to know what the effects of the migration crisis would be and how they should proceed, which has not happened until today. What was presented was basically a study. We called it that -- a study without deadlines, without these reactions, and only to quantify the total cost of individual resorts. [[12.30 hours]] In other materials it did not improve very much and the last management plan with the dashboard and the possibility to navigate in the tables has fundamental errors. Perhaps only in health care there is a senseless number of pediatricians, practices, and so on, so it is not material that can be relied on. There were big mistakes and we called for the Ministry to proceed from the beginning to do registration very thoroughly and to be a perfect registration. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] And that didn't happen, and now we're reaping the fruits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-13-ps2021-019-08-004-115.u37	Time, thank you very much. Another point of fact, Mr. Okamura Hayato, however, I'll be at 12:30... So 12.30 has come up, I have to interrupt this point and go back to the fixed point number 77, which is
