ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-002-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 276/2003 Coll., on Antarctica and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 67/ - First reading I note that we interrupted this item on 5 April 2022 at the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the general debate. At the rapporteur's table, the Minister of Agriculture has already settled as a representative of the Minister of the Environment and also as rapporteur for first reading, Mr Ondřej Babka, thank you. And we will continue with the general debate in which Mr Richard Brabec is signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-002-006.u2	I'd love to. Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, just for the record, because I have also faced these questions as Minister of the Environment, if you were wondering what the Czech Republic's relationship to Antarctica is like, because this is an amendment to the Antarctic Law, I will just remind you that this year it celebrates the 15th anniversary of Mendelův's polar station, which has been run by the Brno Masaryk University since February 2007 on the island of James Ross near the Antarctic Peninsula - we thank the name of Masaryk University - and the Czech Republic has become the opening of the station on 26 countries with its own scientific base on the continent. [[Let's hear it for Mrs Schiller.]] Moreover, it makes it one of the countries with a right to vote in the Antarctic Treaty system. Under this system of contracts, Antarctica is considered to be a transnational territory only intended for scientific purposes and has signed 48 countries. The relations between States in the Antarctic area as well as international status, the legal status of this continent regulates the complex of measures known as the Antarctic Treaty, which consists, inter alia, of the Treaty on Antarctica itself, the legal acts adopted at the Advisory Assembly of the Parties to the Antarctic Treaty and the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, which is also known as the Madrid Protocol. The Madrid Protocol entered into force for the Czech Republic after the deposit of the instrument of ratification on 24 September 2004. And now for the proposed legislation. It must be adopted mainly because the above amendments, Annex II, also Annex VI and other legal acts adopted under the Antarctic Treaty, need to be implemented into the Czech legal system. The proposed legislation concerns mainly three areas: responsibility for environmental accidents, protection of fauna and flora and regulation of tourism. I'm just gonna stop by the third one briefly, because I don't think you're gonna be surprised, and I think you've read that somewhere, that tourism is constantly developing in Antarctica, which means that there's increasing pressure on the environment on this continent. Finally, after long negotiations, the Parties to the Antarctic Treaty concluded that protection of the environment of Antarctica needs to be strengthened. The Madrid Protocol no longer has a clear position in this, let's just say. This means the topic of environmental responsibility there in general is, but there is a need for special regulation. Then, perhaps briefly, the three cases where an operator operating, for example, a polar station or another facility in Antarctica, does not take corrective action because, unfortunately, such a situation has happened there, and there has been some damage to be dealt with, but above all, it needs to be saved. It is therefore specific if the operator does not take corrective action against the environmental accident arising from its activities or any other Party has not taken such action and the State operator is then obliged to pay the costs of the remedial action to be taken into the Fund established pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 12 Annexes VI. In the light of new knowledge in the area of protection of Antarctic fauna and flora, an amendment to Annex II on the protection of fauna and flora was already adopted at international level in 2009, and changes in this Annex are rather of a minor nature, which will not have a significant impact. These include, in particular, the extension of protection explicitly to invertebrates, as well as the introduction of non-originating species or diseases, or the refinement of the authorisation for sampling for zoos. In the future, it is expected that the list of specially protected species will be modified in the implementing decree. The Madrid Protocol states that Antarctica is a nature reserve dedicated to peace and science, and other activities therefore need to be regulated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-11-ps2021-019-06-002-006.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'm asking, does anyone else want to get out? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? Mr. Minister, Mr. Rapporteur? We do not have any voting proposals, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we will decide - I will call my colleagues from the lobby - the commandment to the guarantee committee, where a proposal was proposed by the Organising Committee to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee to the guarantee committee. I ask, does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee? Or who's against it? Voting number 90, 165 Members voted, for 139, against 0. I note that the Committee on the Environment has been approved as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, so let me just ask: Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee for discussion? It's not like that. So I'm saying that we've dealt with this first reading of this press. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. It's 10 o'clock, and we can step right up and open this point number.
