ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 16th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's applying for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Babiš Andrej - health reasons, Babišová Andrea - health reasons, Balaš Vladimír within 16 hours for work reasons, Bauer Jan for work reasons, Bělor Roman - work reasons, Bernard Josef until 15.30 hours for work reasons, Carbol Jiří for health reasons, Dufek Aleš - also health reasons, Fiala Radim within 15 hours for health reasons, horák Jiří - health reasons, Kasasal David - health reasons, Knechtová Lenka - health reasons, Lisová Martina - health reasons, Metnar Lubomír until 15.45 hours for work reasons, Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka - working reasons, Okamura Hayato - health reasons, Ožanová Zuzana - health reasons, Potůčková Lucie - working reasons, Růžička Pavel - health reasons, Staněk Pavel - health reasons, Válková Helena - health reasons, Vích Radovan - health reasons, Wenzl Milan - health reasons. From members of the government are excused: Fiala Petr for health reasons, Bek Mikuláš - working reasons, Gazdík Petr - foreign trip, Langšádlová Helena - health reasons, Nekula Zdeněk - working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk - working reasons. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to keep your voice down, thank you. Now I would like to introduce you to what kind of consensus has been made today, and since there are a number of points, I really ask for silence and attention. Firstly, it proposes to include new points on the agenda of the 16th meeting: The current situation in Ukraine as the first point. Reminding the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during the famine organized by the Stalinist regime of the Soviet Union between 1932-1933, which is the second proposed new point. Secondly, we propose the following procedure this week: 1. Today's meeting will start with a new point - the current situation in Ukraine; [[if included]] continue points from the block first reading laws, in the following order: first point 15, House printing 106 - Act on certain services of the information society, point 16, House printing 107 - Act on product market surveillance, point 20, House printing 161 - Act on the protection of designations of origin, point 14, House printing 96 - Act on the protection of public health, point 23, House printing 167 - Act on medical devices, point 24, House printing 168 - Act on medical devices - Related. We would then continue further points from the block by the laws of the first reading, in order: paragraph 8, House printing 67 - Antarctic law, paragraph 10, House printing 139 - digital instruments, and then in order of the approved agenda. 2. Tomorrow, i.e. on Wednesday, 6 April, we propose to discuss the points in the following order: paragraph 79, House press 43 - Law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms, paragraph 7, House press 151 - Act on Plant Health Care, paragraph 9, House press 174 - Act on major market power, and then according to the proposed order for Tuesday. Should these points be discussed, we would continue according to the approved agenda. At 12:30 p.m. tomorrow, we propose to place a firmly new point if it is included on the agenda, a reminder of the genocide of the Ukrainian nation during the famine organized by the Stalinist regime of the Soviet Union between 1932-1933. At 13:30 there would be a block of ballot points 85 to 96, with their results being announced in the Chamber at 16 o'clock on the same day. 3. Finally, I would like to remind you that on Thursday, 7 April, at 9 o'clock, the 18th meeting will be opened, i.e. an extraordinary meeting. That's all from my side now, that's the proposal from the Gremium. And now I'm not registering any applications yet... I'm registering Prime Minister Excellent. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-000-000.u2	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, dear colleagues, nice greetings on Tuesday afternoon, and allow me to ask the broad proposal presented by the President for one more change to the programme, or two changes to the programme, on behalf of the Presidents of the five coalition MPs - this amendment concerns Friday's negotiations. We would like to propose that we place point 59 on this Friday at 9 o'clock, House press 110, this is a proposal by Members of Jakub Michálek, Věra Kovářová, Marek Výborný, Marek Benda and Jan Jakob to issue a law amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest. So as the first item in our 9 o'clock meeting on Friday. And then, as the second point of Friday's meeting, we propose that item 25 be discussed, House press 177, Government bill repealing Act No. 112/2016 Sb., on the record of sales. Thank you for supporting the two fixed points on this Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. Now the MP is still applying for the SPD club - but there is another written application. Please, you have a club opinion, I presume. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if we could vote individually on point 14, House press 96, Public Health Protection Act, out of theGremial proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-000-000.u5	Okay. I'm registering this request, the only point in the whole of the gremial design. Mr Nacher is now on the agenda in writing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day, Dear Government, Madam President, dear Members, dear Members, honourable Members. I was already focusing on that point, and I was still welcoming and greeting you, so I'm sorry. I'm probably gonna be annoying, but I'm gonna want to put it on a fixed time today - and I'd like to put it on the 17th or the second option at the 18th hour, it's print 41, point 50, change the trade code on the subject of the possibility of transferring it to municipalities so that they can regulate short-term accommodation in their place. [[14.10 hours]] And I'll tell you why today - because we discussed it at the Prague council. I understand that this is a topic that mainly concerns Prague, but it doesn't move too far ahead. Anyway, what the Ministry of Regional Development is preparing cannot be very different from the proposal that is now being submitted. Here one of the disagreeable opinions, one of the reasons not to put it in place, was the concern of whether it was in line with European legislation, so I took some of the materials in the meantime. I will not read them all, I hope you colleagues will include this, but I have here a brief extract from the Opinion of the Advocate General, which clearly states that the repeated short-term rental of furnished premises intended for housing to occasional customers who do not have permanent residence is bound to a permit, for example in France. This means that he has given the green light, that it can be dealt with, that the present case concerns the social and social effects of such services on their respective markets, such as the housing market, specifically in Paris. And I will mention here the recent judgment between Paris and Booking.com, where it was clearly said, when I take it out of that judgment - and I will not read the whole thing, I do not want to delay it: "The imposed provisions are not restrictions on freedom in the provision of information society services." As well as the court found that at Booking.com no conditions other than those of other providers have been applied. Therefore, Booking.com is subject to the same sanctions as other entities for non-compliance. In addition, it does not consider compliance with the information obligation to be a significant restriction on the platform. There are more decisions here, I think it would be worth talking about. The reason I'm talking about this is because from the way the debate was going on here, it seemed like we were making up a bike here, that there was no such thing. And here I have quite detailed material developed by IPR from Prague, which compares how it is dealt with in thirteen European cities, and there it is dealt with until such detail that it is not just about some registration number or permit by cities or that time limit, whether you can rent it for 30, 90 or 150 days, but there are also such parameters as quantitative or geographical restrictions, restrictions on primary residence, that means that you can rent only a dwelling or apartment where you have a permanent residence, guest records, data sharing with public authorities and so on. It's quite detailed, I have here in detail Amsterdam, Barcelona, Berlin, Copenhagen, Lisbon, London, Milan, Munich, Paris, Vienna, Geneva. That means this is really going everywhere. I would really like to ask you to distract those fears that we are here to invent something that the European Union would put on our heads. I didn't. It is addressed in almost all cities, in all capitals of European countries. The only reason I'm saying this here is because now, as the covid is still running, it's relatively quiet in Prague. Once the season starts, it's really gonna be quite problematic to deal with. I think in confidence in municipal policy - local politicians have more confidence than central politicians, so I see no reason not to trust them and give them the opportunity to regulate it in some way in their territory. Then, as it will be specifically regulated, it is already in the cities. So like I said, print 41, point 50, today at 5:00 p.m., fixed time, or, alternatively, at 6:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-000-000.u7	Yes, I have noted this proposal of yours, Mr. Ambassador. I've got it recorded, all right, thank you. I don't see anyone else reporting to the agenda. That is why I will call our colleagues so that we can vote on all the proposals. First, proposals from the Gremium. As Mr Rozvoral has said, there is a proposal not to vote them all, to vote separately one point, namely, paragraph 14, which is the House Press 96, the Public Health Act. This means this point, which is proposed for today as point five in the whole of the proposal, when we approve the inclusion of new points, we would vote separately. We would have voted on the other proposals as they were made from Gremium. Therefore, I am first initiating a separate vote on this proposal on this point, item 14 of the original proposal, House press 96. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this point and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 91 registered 161, for 82, against 17. The motion was accepted. I will therefore now vote on the whole of the Gremial proposal that has been tabled. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 92 registered 163, for 161, against none. The motion was accepted. So we will follow the Gremies' proposed agenda. We will now deal with the proposals that have been made here in plenary. First of all, President Excellent's proposal for a solid inclusion of paragraph 59, which is the House press 110, a conflict of interest, for Friday at 9 o'clock, as a fixed item. I'm asking, who's in favour of putting this point firmly? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 93 163 registered, for 100, against 56. The motion was accepted. The second proposal by President Excellent was for this point now approved, i.e. as the second point on Friday, to include item number 25, which is the House press 177, in simple terms, the abolition of the EET. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this point and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In the 94 vote, 163 Members and Members of Parliament signed up for 99 against 60. The motion was accepted. We have also firmly classified this point. And now, the vote on Mr Nacher's proposal, which proposes that today at 17 o'clock - first we vote on the first of these proposals - we discuss item number 50, which is the House press 41, it is a change in the trade code, a prioritization of this point. I'm registering an interest in check-out. I beg you all to re-enlist with your cards. I presume Mrs Urbanová is not reporting for action? It's not even possible right now. It's a mistake. When the number of entries is settled, I remind you, item 50, House press 41, today at 17 o'clock. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In vote number 95 registered 161, for 78, against 30. The motion was denied. Another is Mr Nacher's alternative proposal that we place this point firmly at 18 o'clock today. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 96, 161 present, for 78, against 29. This proposal was also rejected. We have thus dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda. According to these changes, we will continue. [[14.20 hours]] I'll reload my apologies. From 5 to 6. 4. For health reasons, Mr Šimon Heller apologizes for the whole of the day, and here we have: 7 and 8 days. 4. Mr Heller again apologizes for working reasons for the whole day. Mr Josef Flek apologizes between 14 and 15 o'clock for reasons of work and Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes for health reasons for the whole of today's day, Tuesday 5 April. We will now proceed to item number one of today's agenda and be the point
