ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u1	112. Oral inhalation addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and then to other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the following rankings were drawn for Members, in which they will speak and submit oral interpelations to the Prime Minister, Mr Petr Fiala, the Czech Government, the Prime Minister from 14:30 to 16:00 and the other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would therefore like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the Prime Minister's intervention is exhausted, an intercession block will be immediately launched on the other members of the Government. Before we proceed to the first draw, I'll load up the apologies. Mr Václav Král apologizes today from 5 pm to the end of the day and tomorrow for the whole working day, Kamal Farhan today from 13 pm to the end of the day for working reasons, Minister Vlastimil Válek today from 16 to 18 pm for working reasons, Mr Jan Kubík today between 16.15 and 21.15 for health reasons, Mr Jan Lacina today between 19.30 and 21 pm until the end of the day for working reasons and Mr Jan Volný from 14.30 to midnight, to the end of the day for working reasons. So far, apologies have been settled. We can therefore approach Mr Radek Vondráček's interpellation, which was drawn in the first place, to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala. Mrs Alena Schillerová will then be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u2	Thank you. Prime Minister, briefly, quickly. On what legal basis is there currently a fight against misinformation, especially blocking private websites? Which state institutions are responsible for the documentation and recommendations on the basis of which there is currently a restriction on freedom of speech and the blocking of so-called pro-Russian servers? Third, did the government discuss the issue first and second? If so, on whose initiative, with what course, with what conclusions? Fourthly, if the judicial review of blocking certain servers indicates the lawlessness of such a step, including the responsibility of the state and its institutions, who will bear political and legal responsibility? Fifthly, which member of the government and which department is now responsible for the so-called fight against misinformation? On what legislative basis and on what legislative proposals is work done? Who set out the assignment of their content and when will these proposals be submitted to the legislative process? The rule of law can only exist where opinions, however immoral or despicable for most of society, are not sanctioned. Prime Minister, if you want to be - and I believe you do - Prime Minister of the rule of law, you can't keep your mouth shut about this situation, you can't serve this situation and you have to stand up to it in some way. We all understand that there is an information war and the release of misinformation is part of a war conflict, we can be long-term indulgence. But I've been hearing all week that this war is gradually turning into some kind of wear-out conflict and a lengthy war. What about Czech citizens, we also have to wait for us to tire out and wear out? I am convinced that we deserve an answer and that this current legal vacuum is the worst solution that we may have in Europe of all. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u3	Thank you for presenting the interpelation within the time frame. Petr Fiala, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, first of Vondráček, I congratulate you on being drawn first. I've been trying for eight years from the opposition, and I've never done it, so congratulations. I'm sure your questions are relevant and important, and I'm happy to answer them, and I think they're satisfactory. In fact, we here - it is one of the few things where it is possible and I am glad - we are following up on the actions of the previous government and on its decision. I think it is a good thing that there is continuity and continuity of decision-making in the fight against misinformation and hybrid threats in general. So I would just remind you that the government of Andrej Babiš adopted the Action Plan on the National Strategy for the Leadership of Hybrid Threats on 22 November 2021. This action plan sets out specific tasks, responsibilities and time frame for meeting the objectives set out in the National Strategy for the Leadership of hybrid action previously approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 19 April 2021. On the basis of that decision by the previous government, a number of processes have already taken place, which we naturally follow, and it is a good thing that continuity is here. Let me just remind you of some of the things that are in this action plan approved by the government of Andrej Babiš. There are 15 tasks, such as strengthening the role of the expert working group on hybrid threats, processing and submitting a proposal for a State strategic communication system. I think we're starting to realize very successfully now. Furthermore, create a national network of selected experts in the field of head-on hybrid action from experts from different spheres. Include - it is quite interesting, so I would read it whole, but there is no time for it, so just briefly - integrate media education into strategies. Submit to the government the expansion of the current system. Training to strengthen resistance to the influence of foreign powers, including training for state workers. Use vulnerability mapping tools carried out in cooperation with NATO and the EU. Process the resistance analysis of critical infrastructure to hybrid activity, i.e. to misinformation. Engage the issue of hybrid action in exercises and so on and so on. Collaborate with NATO and the EU. Create a concept of exercise aimed at the head of hybrid action. Create a set of recommendations in the field of foreign investment screening for the private sector. As part of the update of the State's central defence plan, take into account the issue of head-on hybrid action. Take into account the hybrid effect, identify the related threats. Create a framework of indicators that can contribute to the detection of hybrid activity in the Czech Republic. Create a set of possible reactions to the detection of hybrid activity in the Czech Republic including the possibility of distribution. And - and this is important - point 15 of the Action Plan approved by the Government of Andrej Babiš reads: To process and submit proposals to the Government for amendments to legislation to strengthen the Czech Republic's ability to face misinformation. That's important. That's what you're asking. Of course, that's what we're working on, and it's not on the water. It is based on an action plan approved by the previous government. Of course, our government has full respect for freedom of speech; this attitude does not change anything. When this action plan was approved - and even then, the government identified hybrid threats, misinformation, as something important to face, what the Czech Republic must actively defend, for which it is necessary to create assumptions at different levels of the state - even then Babiš government Andrej it. But all of this has increased by what is happening today, by the war in Ukraine, by the Russian aggression in Ukraine, and by everything that the Czech Republic is exposed to, including much stronger and more intense disinformation, disinformation campaigns that we must defend. [[14.40 hours]] So I am pleased to say that we are following up on the decision of the previous government here, and we are continuing to develop those steps and means that will enable us to protect the Czech Republic from hybrid threats, including disinformation. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u5	Thank you, and there is obviously an interest in the supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u6	Prime Minister, congratulations, you haven't actually answered one of the five specific questions. I'll do it again. Which state institutions are responsible for documentation and recommendations on the basis of which there is currently a restriction on freedom of speech and on switching off websites? If the judicial review states that this is an illegal procedure, who will bear political and legal responsibility? Who of the members of the government is now responsible for these legislative proposals, who are working on them, who set out their content and when will these proposals be submitted to the legislative process? I would like to ask those specific questions, which are - I understand - more legally. It is, of course, also due to my focus. So this is not some general answer, but really what is happening in the legislative field in this matter, because they have adopted a special law in Slovakia - I do not like it, I think it is wrong because there is vague definition of misinformation. In all countries with experience like Lithuania, Latvia, there is a possibility of judicial review. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u7	And the Prime Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u8	For one thing, I've answered your question about what kind of decision some things are taking, and it's a good thing there's continuity in the decision-making of governments, which I think we should all appreciate. Secondly, I told you that, even on the basis of the previous government's decision and our decision, legislation is being prepared for the relevant ministries. And thirdly - and this is essential - there's no freedom of speech here, there's no restriction on freedom of speech, so I don't know how I can answer that when there's no such thing. As for the activities of disinformation websites in the Czech Republic, which have been tolerated for a long time, there was the fact that the administrator of the CZ.NIC domain decided simply to stop these disinformation sites by a free decision of the server administrator. The government didn't forbid or forbid, it can't forbid the media, but it wasn't about the media in case of disinformation websites. The media can be considered as a set of information prepared by journalists according to standard professional rules, this is not the case here. And if you still want some legal additions, constitutionally legal additions, I can quote you the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, where, in addition to freedom, expression and the right to information, there is also a part that says: "Freedom of expression and the right to seek and disseminate information can be limited by law when it comes to measures in a democratic society necessary to protect the rights and freedoms of others, the security of the state, public security and the protection of public health and morality." This, too, is what our Charter of Rights and Freedoms says. As far as coordinating the fight against misinformation is concerned, as you know, a government agent has recently been appointed. He has also been appointed as the head of the communication team within the strategic group as an advisory body of the government, and he is currently building a team that will systematically engage in the fight against misinformation. I think that this is necessary and that it is continuous and follows up on the steps of the previous government for which I thank and appreciate the previous government in this regard. [[Time, please.]] [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u9	I beg you very much to keep time. It is Mrs Alena Schillerová's turn to interview again, but I do not see her present in the hall, so she is failing. Mr Vladimír Zlínský was also drawn. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u10	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, after your apt general definition of the concept of misinformation in past interventions, I would like to add a few sentences from Charter 77, and Václav Havel's ideas. I quote from Charter 77: "The states of other citizens are denied freedom from fear, because they are forced to live in a lasting danger of losing working and other options if they express their views. The exercise of the right to seek, receive, disseminate information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of borders, whether orally, in writing or by the press, including through art, is prosecuted not only outside court but also judicially, often under the cover of criminal charges." End of quote. November 14, 2009 Václav Havel said - I quote: "The era of dictatorships and totalitarian systems has not ended. She may have ended up as we know her from the 20th century, but new, far more sophisticated ways of controlling society are born." End of quote. Now, questions. Are you able, Prime Minister, to formulate at least three specific misinformations that have the power to destabilize or disrupt the Czech Republic and against which the true counterarguments cannot be defended? Prove that there are specific misinformations for which even Václav Havel would sacrifice freedom of speech and thought. Dear Prime Minister, behave fairly and fairly and finally explain to the citizens of the Czech Republic where freedom of speech ends and where disinformation begins. Many citizens who do not share your ideology and your view of solving current problems are eagerly waiting for this. [[The President: Time, time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u11	Thank you. And now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u12	Dear Member, of course you can ask me anything, and I will answer that in the context of the interpelling, but I will not forgive myself for one comment. To compare the period of totalitarian regime, non-freedom, the time when citizens could not really express themselves, and under the threat of sanctions, had significantly limited opportunities to express a free opinion, with a democratic society, where everyone can say what he considers necessary and good, no matter how it relates or does not relate to reality, is outrageous. Likewise, there is no ruling ideology, there is no one world opinion, there is no such thing as what we knew from the past, and use the arguments of Charter 77 and people who have paid for it by actually losing freedom, often also health and some also life, to use it to some criticism of the current situation, I really consider it to be at least inconvenient and certainly, certainly tasteless. Of course, freedom of speech is respected in the Czech Republic, the government does not restrict, restrict, or restrict, and that is a good thing. You cannot compare the time before November 1989 with what is happening here in the Czech Republic. By the way, even this Chamber of Deputies, the fact that there are different opinions, the fact that I answer to you, Members, we answer to the public, there are free elections going on, that is, like, an absolutely fundamental and diametric difference, and for God's sake, pay for it. I am the one - and you can look at my life history and political history - who clearly defends freedom and freedom of speech, I have always done it, and I will always do it, and I will also defend your freedom, even though I deeply disagree with your views. So, about restricting freedom of speech, about someone being afraid, when they say their point of view, there can't be a word. And I don't know anyone who's afraid to give their opinion either. I don't know what kind of people you meet, but I meet free, proud citizens who express themselves critically, say what they have to say, publish it on social networks, publish it in the media, and that's good, and that's okay. But something else is that we must defend ourselves, not only the Czech Republic - please do not tell our citizens that this is something special. Every democratic state resists hybrid threats, defends new forms of war and pressure. It resists new ways of influencing the population, not in terms of different opinions, but directly and purposefully in favour of a foreign power. And that needs to be faced, it needs to be faced with an active campaign, it needs to be faced with strategic communication, it needs to be faced with this by pointing out, and it also needs to shut down some channels that have nothing to do with the media as defined and understood by the media in the world. That is why many states have also gone to shut down some of Russia's paid media, and that is why the server operator in the Czech Republic has turned off some disinformation sites. [[14.50 hours]] There are a thousand other ways that citizens who want to express their opinion can express their opinion without any penalty, that is total nonsense, and without fear that anything could happen to them. The only thing that can happen to them is that they face a different opinion and they have to deal with another opinion, as you have to deal with my opinion. That's the only thing that's uncomfortable, but that's all that can happen to you or anyone else. But let's not confuse the freedom of speech here with hybrid threats and the fight against misinformation. And as I showed you in the previous answer, that is, in the answer to the previous interpelation, there is continuity. This state, and I'm sure you can't suspect that I have the same opinions as Andrej Babiš on most things, but there's continuity in this. Even the government of Andrej Babiš and our government, aware of the obligation to citizens of the Czech Republic, strengthens the fight against hybrid threats, which are completely proven to include misinformation. That's what we do, and we're gonna do it because it's our duty. It has nothing to do with freedom of speech. And you know it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u13	Thank you and there is a clear interest in the supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u14	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I have to respond and I will react in the same way as Mr Vondráček, because I have raised specific questions here, where I would not want to repeat them, but I would really like to hear specifically what this Russian misinformation is, at least the three most common ones so that these people can imagine something under it - those citizens who address me and who do not feel complete freedom, that they are concerned about not delivering and spreading Russian disinformation. And the second thing is that it is necessary to define the difference where freedom of speech ends and where disinformation begins, because without that definition, those people theoretically will continue to spread the misinformation, so I would like to precisely define what is and what is not misinformation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u16	You, honourable Member, are probably trying to force me to quote the words of your Prime Minister here. I did it last time, when I gave an example of a statement that could be considered disinformation. But that doesn't mean that any misinformation that is said in public space is criminal, but I can just say about someone else's statement because it doesn't correspond to reality and it's a deliberate lie that it has the character of misinformation. I've given you a specific example the last time, I don't know if it was you or anyone else on your political side, so I've given you a specific example here. But I'm going to go back to what I explained to you and what I clearly answered to your interpellation. By the way, like always, when I answer something and you come in and you say, "Well, you didn't answer, so you ask me, and I answer you. You don't like the answer, I fully respect that, but I'm just answering your question. So again, I don't know why anyone should be afraid, and you didn't even explain it to me on that question, and I told you in detail that it's not why anyone should be afraid to say their opinion. Nobody's in any danger. Don't manipulate citizens, don't tell them such nonsense, don't scare them, it's just not true. Shutting down disinformation sites, absolutely specific and absolutely in the service of the Russian Federation, which have nothing to do with the media, has nothing to do with freedom of speech and the dissemination of the views of free citizens. And those views can be anything, and citizens can simply say what they think of Russian aggression in Ukraine, on any side, no one will be able to catch them for it and prosecute them. So just don't scare people, don't get the impression - maybe you don't have any other political issues, so you make up this nonsense and they're dangerous. They are dangerous because they undermine trust in democracy, and it is valuable and should be valuable to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u17	With another interview by Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Prime Minister, Professor, I would like to draw attention to education, not from a pedagogical point of view, but I am a doctor, so I would like to explain some things there. By answering the government as a whole, it fell on you. That is the case, but that responsibility cannot be avoided. Firstly, it is about prevention of school crime in both primary and secondary schools - regardless, please nicely, they have already had a lot of work on the whole situation in Ukraine, and now they are responding to the fact that, of course, work is growing, especially in excluded localities, which we see now, so the question is whether the government will in any way support the Ministry of Education in that they would have a reduced grant of hours, possibly a significant evaluation of their activities. I think it's wrong without them. Next, I will ask about the hygiene conditions of pupils in the classrooms where we know that there can be up to 35 pupils in the classroom, which, first, means that there is certainly an increased possibility of transmission of some infections, secondly, we have to keep the temperature cool for those pupils, and what we have heard from the newspapers, that they have less to drown, we do not have a bit of correlation there, I think it was an unfortunate statement by the relevant minister and that it will certainly be monitored by the government. And another very important stimulus I have in the last week is from our teachers first to third grade. Many Ukrainian families, and this is a good thing, have the opportunity for children to have Ukrainian education remotely, which means that these young children have 9 to 10 hours of teaching a day, and it is really starting to sign on them. So if this is being dealt with in any way, like the Ukrainian side, that we would coordinate somehow, because it certainly isn't good. Next, there's a question about how the next school year will eventually take place in kindergarten schools, i.e. vaccinations, non-inoculation, if there are any news. I believe I have kept time, and I would ask for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u19	Yes, I did. It is now time for the Prime Minister to respond. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u20	Madam, Professor, to return to you - in a good way, of course - the way you approached me, even though we don't use titles here. You asked me a lot of questions. In this case, I must say that I will probably not answer all of you now, but we can answer you in writing or, of course, my colleagues. Maybe I'll start with the overcrowding of schools and classrooms and reducing hygiene conditions. Firstly, I would like to say that the average number of children in the Czech Republic class is in no way 35, nor is it 30. You'll be surprised, he's not even 25, but he's about 20. That's reality, and that's what we need to know. I have been seeing this since I was the Minister of Education, when there were actually unique classes in Prague, in the surrounding area, where there is really a shortage of schools where the number of children reached as many as I normally experienced when I went to school. It's not standard today. There were about 19 children at the time, the average today is slightly over 20. So it's just about some schools. I think there's no way we should, and no one wants to, to reduce some hygiene habits and hygiene standards, that's probably not the way. On the other hand, and this may have been a rational background to the simplified statement - I have not fully noticed it, but we must also think about how, in the case of a short-term capacity increase, some regulations may be slightly reduced. It's appropriate, because, as you know, creating another kindergarten class is not an easy thing at all. Of course, I'm not saying not to drown or anything like that. [[15.00 hours]] The impact of the refugee crisis that we are facing, of course, and the influx of Ukrainian children into the Czech Republic on schools will be uneven, and we are thinking about different ways to help it, perhaps to dispel the burden in some way. So far, it turns out that if I split it by type of school, registered refugees between the ages of 3 and 5 are now registered in kindergartens, i.e. preschools, registered 19 percent. Of course, if the rest of the children register, there will still be an overhang of capacity nationwide, but the lack of space will probably be in Prague and its surroundings, or also in Brno, Pilsen or Pardubice, and there will be a need to deal with it. With regard to primary schools, there are fewer than 38% of registered refugees aged 6 to 14 years in primary schools. Similarly, in some regions and in the ring around Prague there may be no capacity problems, there will be no capacity elsewhere, for example in the Moravian-Silesian Region there will still be a huge number of children. We must - and we are dealing with this very intensively with the government - how to confront the situation in order for it to turn out well. I would still like to say, however, that here, who listens to us, and I know that citizens sometimes look at interpelations so that there is no bad impression: no Czech child will be disadvantaged in having a place in a kindergarten or in a school at the expense of a Ukrainian child. The entries of Czech children took place earlier, both in kindergartens and primary schools, so that from this point of view someone does not have to worry and no one has to scare anyone in this regard. Now, I may have forgotten a question I can still answer, but I'm sure you'll use the remaining option to complete your question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u21	Thank you, yes, the Member will certainly use it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u22	Thank you for the floor. Yes, that's right, Prime Minister, I've got two here - I'd like to poke out two more things I'd like to hear. First of all, it's how you take care of the preventists, because that's really a very important role in schools. They help teachers and they don't have it easy. And they have two problems: one is whether it will be evaluated, and so whether they will have a reduced number of hours, which please is relatively simple, and the other is the stimulus that came out last week, and that is the overload of Ukrainian children who have both of them. They have four, five hours in the morning, and then they have four hours in distance. They, of course, go to that school very tired after a few weeks, so if it's there, and I'd be very sorry if there was a government-level agreement, that these kids would have some kind of penetration, some sort of boom, because it's certainly not possible, kids 7, 8 years old, this is how it comes, 7, 8 years old, they're just weary, and so that we don't overload them, because then it wouldn't be good for teaching or in our classrooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u23	Thank you for the additional question, and the President will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u24	Yes, I know, as far as the overload is concerned, the Minister of Education is intensively concerned. It is not that simple, however, because the parents of Ukrainian children choose whether the child wants to go to school with Czech teaching, or wants to go to a school where Ukrainian is taught, or to make it even more complicated, and that is also a lot of children participating in online teaching directly from Ukraine. And it's not that the children often have to, but it's also because parents actually think about the right strategy, and at this point you can't quite answer what the majority strategy will be, because, to say it simply - I don't have to tell you this, but who listens to us so that they understand it - actually parents who expect to stay in the Czech Republic try to quickly learn Czech and try to put them in Czech schools or where they are taught Czech, and integrate them into the collective. Of course, parents who are more likely to simply return to Ukraine prefer the Ukrainian language. And some parents choose the double strategy. I suppose, at least from the information I have that this is very temporary, and it will matter how long Russia's aggression will last, and even if it takes a long time, those parents will just decide. Otherwise, I agree with you, I know what it means to have an afternoon lesson for a child, because I have experienced it myself, and with me my parents in the 1970s, and it is not something that we should recommend and expose to children in the long run. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u25	Thank you, and while Mr Martin Kukla prepares, I will read an apology, namely Mr Zdeněk Kettner apologizes today between 18:00 and midnight for work reasons. And please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u26	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a simple question for the Prime Minister, namely, if the government has any strategy, any plan to help people. When we look at the current economic situation, it's just filling the state register. Let's look at inflation - it was 4.9 percent in October last year, today we have April inflation in 2022 and it is 14 percent. When we look at other states, other states help people. The Czech Republic, the government, your government is not helping people almost at all. We look at fuel prices, energy prices, food prices, these people just stop having money. That's another step, and that's interest rate growth. So it has some sort of inertia, but people start going through high reserves, they start refinanceting mortgages, and they hit their bottom. I would like to ask you what your plan is, what strategy, whether you want to help people in the Czech Republic or let them fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u27	Thank you for presenting the interpelation in time and now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u28	Dear Member, thank you for the question, because I have a lot of specific things to remind you of here, so maybe it won't be enough for me five minutes, how much the government has done for the citizens, and how it has helped them, unlike the previous government, which has simply left the citizens in many ways in the lurch. She has contributed to rising inflation and has done nothing to ensure that we have energy security. But I don't want to take criticism of the previous government here, just as you flat-out criticized our government, that it doesn't do anything, which is basically absurd, and I think anyone who watches the world around them with their eyes open. So I can leave you if I don't make it all in time for last night's Chief deštník versus Darling. There is also a website where not only you, but every citizen of the Czech Republic can find out what the government has done for him, as far as he is concerned, according to the group they belong to - mothers with children, seniors and so on, entrepreneurs. It will also find a signpost for specific assistance so that it does not have to browse the website of individual authorities. He'll see what he's entitled to, he'll see what we've got for him, how he can ask for it, or whether it concerns him. It's a web destnikprotokrahote.cz and I highly recommend it. [[15.10 hours]] Otherwise, I can say that the government has already given CZK 100 billion of money to help citizens in general. By the way, maybe pension growth will be the highest in history this year, they'll valorize three times a year. We have taken a number of measures concerning energy prices. By the way, we have also taken a number of measures to help the socially weak. We've extended the housing allowance. We're working on simplifying his payment now. We ensure that there is enough gas, oil and other things and we do a lot for citizens in this regard. I can assure everyone that the government will not let anyone fall into poverty, but we will not go the way of the measures, because that would only turn the inflation spiral, and we would not help people. I've mentioned here the valorization of pensions that will be increased three times. During January Valorisation, the average old-age pension increased by CZK 810; from June it will be another CZK 1 017; the third increase will be CZK 700 in autumn. The percentage of pension will increase by 5.2 %. We recently approved a package of family assistance, which is aimed precisely at families affected by a jumping rise in prices and inflation. We have focused on families with children who are most affected. A one-time allowance for each child under the age of 18 of CZK 5 000 is already being prepared by the government and will be received by people during August. We increased the maximum amount of parental allowance from CZK 10,000 to CZK 13,000. We have prepared legislative changes to support short and flexible jobs, greater support for children's groups so that parents can better reconcile their work with child care. We have prepared assistance with high prices for the most vulnerable groups. We have allocated 2 to 3 billion crowns for this, it may be even more if it is interested. We've increased the housing allowance. We've extended the possibility by hundreds of thousands of households. We have increased the life and existential minimum by 10 percent since April. We're lowering fuel prices. We're going to cancel the mandatory incorporation of the biocomponent into the fuel that makes it expensive. We reduce excise duty on diesel and petrol by 1.5 crowns per litre from 1 June to 30 September. That's what's manifesting itself. We also help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs by extending the Guarantee programme. [[Time.]] And so I could go on for another five or ten minutes. [[Time, please.]] We have prepared all this for the citizens and done it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u29	The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u30	Thank you for the floor. It may want to go among ordinary people sometimes and they will tell you how they were before and how they are now. It's just that people are poor, and people don't have enough bills to pay. Perhaps it would be good if you sent the umbrella against poverty to everyone, because I don't know what to imagine under it. As regards the valorisation of pensions, let's pour some pure wine here and say: Yes, it is the previous government that has guaranteed by law that pensions will be valorized. Driveable matter - so we can now look at current prices as they grow. I don't think the crown of 50 is gonna rip anybody out at this point. The prices are coming back to 50 grand. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u31	Thank you. Is there an interest in a reaction? Yes. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u32	I'm talking to people right now, Mr. Ambassador, and I know what they need. [[Laughter in the YES benches.]] I'm sure they don't want your recipes because they've already tried and they know what they're leading to. The flat-rate measures and disregard for the state's economic behaviour lead to the fact that we have as high inflation as we are now facing, and that their funds, which they have and which they have saved from their work, are being devalued and worried about what they are facing. As a result of the previous government's failure to care for energy security, they are, of course, concerned about whether they will have any energy at all. I can reassure them that they will, because our government has taken all necessary steps to ensure enough gas to ensure that oil continues to flow to the Czech Republic, even if Russian supplies are stopped. And we've taken steps that the previous government hasn't taken at all. And I don't know, Mr. Ambassador, but when we help those who are really vulnerable and can get into trouble, it's the right way to go. I would not question the fact that we helped the elderly and significantly increased their pensions to cope with energy prices. They don't have a way to make any more money and how to help themselves. It's the right way to help those who get into existential trouble. And that's why we've expanded the welfare benefits and the number of beneficiaries. It's the right way to help those who have children. They belong in the middle class, they are not bad enough to get into social welfare, but at the same time they need help because the higher prices touch them, so we give them a one-time allowance of CZK 5,000 to deal with the situation and to help them. At the same time, we are fighting energy prices, fighting further growth in fuel prices. [[Time, please, time.]] And these are the concrete steps that help people and that people need. [[President: I beg you to keep your time.]] Umbrella versus expensive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u33	I beg you to keep your time. I have to measure them all the same. And now, with another interview, Mr Radek Koten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u34	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a few questions about energy. It's like the evergreen of my interpelling. However, since more than CEZ's parastate organization, in which you have 70% stake as a state, produces electricity here and then sells it on the stock exchange, completely senseless. I would understand if only the surplus was being sold there, but you're selling it all, and then the distributor companies are buying it for our consumers. And let's face it, now the price of energy, including the distribution of CZK 10 per kilowatt hour for new customers. I think it will be quite a wake-up call for consumers when new advances come in. First of all. [[The speaker gradually adds to his voice.]] Next, I wanted to ask what is the reason for the increase in fuel between weeks - last week and today - about a crown of fifty. I don't understand it, so if it wasn't one dollar barrel up, why are fuel prices in the Czech Republic increasing? As we see in Hungary, the Hungarian Prime Minister takes care of the citizens of Hungary and there they have prizes at last year's prices, where it's all right. But you're saying what you're doing for the citizens of the Czech Republic, but unfortunately, citizens don't register. So my question is whether you will behave like the Hungarian Prime Minister, who is therefore doing what he is doing for the citizens of Hungary, or whether you will continue to behave servilely in Brussels, pro-american or otherwise, and you will completely give a crap about the citizens of the Czech Republic. Because what's going on, the price increase, we're not going to be making bread here in the end, because Ukraine has stopped gas in the direction of Slovakia, completely contrary to international agreements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u35	Time. And I'd like to ask for an intensity that's going to be a little lower. It was really very loud. Please, Prime Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u36	Dear Member, you said that energy or energy debate is some kind of evergreen of these interventions, in which I agree with you, and it is so good. And thank you for asking, because this is a really big problem for the citizens of the Czech Republic. It is also a problem for the Czech Republic. And the problem has several planes. One level, of course, is very difficult to influence to some extent in the short term, but in the medium term, which can only be influenced to the extent that national governments influence it and where, actually, when we talk about it, we really need to understand how the price of energy is generated and how it is generated by each type of energy. And we must also understand the way in which electricity is needed, the way in which gas is traded, the way in which oil is traded, the way in which reservoirs are filled, what is possible and what is not possible under our legislation, on the basis of international agreements, on the basis of the structure of the assets available to each country in the field of energy. And then we can compare it. If you don't get the job and find out how it really is, some things feel like they could be done that way, they're really simple. It's not like that, it's just not like that. [[15.20 hours]] If you don't get the job and find out how it really is, some things feel like they could be done that way, they're really simple. It's not like that, it's just not like that. I am not happy about the state of energy security in the Czech Republic, the state in which we took over it, I am not happy about the instruments in the state's hands, and believe me, we are doing everything we can to make those instruments better. That is why, for example, to give one example, we bought gas for CZK 8.5 billion in a magazine to guarantee that citizens will actually have gas in the event of a sudden failure, because, as you know, the Czech Republic is among the few countries whose dependence on Russian gas exceeds 90 and 95 percent. And that's why we're vulnerable in this area. And that is not a trivial question, because one thing is prices, but what is primary is that we have the energy at all and we are doing what we can and I can guarantee citizens that we will have it. Besides the fact that we bought the gas, we also created the conditions to start filling the reservoirs. Today the stacks are filled with 40 percent and that is a huge shift and it is in the past most in this season and we will achieve that before the winter season starts, the bins will be filled with at least 80 percent. We're also talking about expanding the capacity of the TAL pipeline, because otherwise, if oil doesn't come here from Russia, we won't get that oil. And I have to tell you that these negotiations are successful so far, and we're moving things that have just stood here for x years and haven't moved anywhere. And then we don't affect energy prices. I have discussed LNG terminals in Poland, I have discussed the pipeline - the renewal of the discussion on the STORK II pipeline. We are taking a lot of further steps to ensure that the Czech Republic has sufficient cost-effective and affordable energy for citizens and companies. It was also our government that launched the Dukovan completion tender, which is extremely important not only in terms of energy security and a sensible mix for the Czech Republic for the future, but it is also important for us to have affordable energy here. And as for the stock exchanges and what I've been hearing over and over again, wholesale prices, look at how it's traded, how long in advance, when what's bought and when what's sold. So let's not have the citizens here that some government is going to decide something like this right now, and they're going to have different energy prices tomorrow. That's just not what it is, because it doesn't fit the reality at all, a reality that needs to be understood, or we just can't really talk about it here. And besides ensuring energy security, of course, the government is taking steps, and I reminded some of them here, and I didn't have enough time to do much more with those energy prices in the medium term than we can now, with the energy security of the Czech Republic... [[Time, please.]] ...is in a situation as bad as we just took over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u37	Time, thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister. Of course, what you're saying is clear to me. But here is the basic problem that we in the Czech Republic in Czech power plants, which were built often during the previous regime, or I do not know if the regime produced here after 1989, except Temelín, who had just completed, another power plant, perhaps the Long Strána, which was started before 1989, we produce electricity for twenty-one cents and sell it to consumers for ten crowns. This disproportion is absolutely obvious and I see that you do not want to hear about it, so I would expect you to say that electricity produced in the Czech Republic will be sold to Czech citizens at an affordable price and not that it will be sold on the stock exchange so that your semi-state company or three quarters of the state company will have a huge profit. That's the first thing. And another thing. Prime Minister, I love you because you're doing everything you can to keep your government from being here next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Prime Minister Petr Fiala is interested in the response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u40	I guess I'm glad you like me, but whether our government is here or not, that's fortunately for the citizens to decide, and not you, and that's a more competent decision. I would also like to tell you about your question that we are defending the interests of Europe and not of Czech citizens. That's just not true. And if we were to shut this place down energyally, like you're probably suggesting, we just couldn't deal with these things at all. On the contrary, what we are doing is defending the interests of the Czech Republic at European level and we have managed to push a number of things into the decision of the European Union, which is extremely important for the Czech Republic. It was our government that, for example, pushed freedom of energy mix into the conclusions of the European Council. This means, by the way, that we can continue to develop nuclear energy in the way we want it to be among the supported energy sources. And this is absolutely essential for the Czech Republic. By the way, we have also pushed the sentence to the conclusion of the European Council of 24 and 25 March this year that the necessary solidarity and compensation mechanisms will be put in place, and Member States will endeavour to ensure security of supply for all Member States. To interpret it and translate it, this political resolution means that if Russian gas or Russian oil are stopped, on which the Czech Republic is unfortunately dependent and more dependent than other countries, we are guaranteed that we will be able to get those supplies in solidarity from other countries and to the Czech Republic. And that is extremely important in terms of what can happen here. So let's not confuse the public, we take care of the interests of the Czech Republic and we promote them... [[Time.]] ... where it needs to be. Wherever it's needed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u41	čas, please. Mr Miloslav Janulík will speak with the next interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Prime Minister, my interpelation is quite simple. One word - inflation. What about inflation? We know it was 4.9 in the fall, and according to your pronouncements, it was a complete disaster, it was awful, and it was the government's fault. So now it's 14,2 - and I don't think we're at the end - so to speak, your logic is the government's fault. You say it's the previous government, I don't think so, it won't last much longer - this rhetoric - but that's not the point. The important thing is that I would like to hear really not the signals, but clearly the steps that the government can take. You said you just had a recipe for it, and even that might be one of the reasons why you're ruling today, so I would like to know specifically what the steps are, because the situation is ruthless: out of a hundred crowns, twenty crowns are now gone, and people who have been saving for retirement want to show their homes and so on, it's sad for them. And it doesn't change our academic language. I remember the time you wanted to convene an emergency meeting here for the price of butter. We'd be meeting here right now, because everything's going to get totally expensive in a huge way. Many times, in layman's terms, I would like you to tell me the concrete individual steps you have prepared that might lead to the fact that inflation will at least not grow anymore. I'm not saying it's going to fall, but at least it won't grow anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u43	Thank you. And now the Prime Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u44	Dear Member, I am sure we can agree on this, and I am pleased that inflation is not positive and that there is simply a need to combat it. I'd just correct the claim. In those debates, when we were in opposition, I just warned that inflation could rise. And it was President Babiš, with whom I led the controversy, which was more optimistic in terms of inflation figures than I was, which is easily traceable. And it was my argument at the time that if we continue with the policy that the government was doing here at the time, we're making good assumptions to have high inflation here, which I didn't want. [[15.30 hours]] And let me just remind you that we have taken over the country in a state of unhappy public finances, rising inflation, complex economic situations. The Czech Republic, and not just me, says independent economists, the Czech National Bank, says the Supreme Audit Office, you can look at statistics, you can look at statistics, you have been in debt in 2020, 2021 at a record rate that is unprecedented in modern history. And if we had not corrected this negative development, we would have gone wrong and inflation would have been even worse. I am not questioning this, and I am not going to say here that all inflation is simply due to the effects of the previous government, I never thought of it, there are many international factors that we admit, but that inflation is so high in comparison with the surrounding countries in the Czech Republic, it certainly has national causes, and these are identified by economists, and these are the ones that are not economic policies from the past period. So if you want to hear concrete steps, we've already done one, and that's that we've prepared an anti-inflationary budget. This was an essential step and is thus evaluated not only by the National Budget Council, it is thus evaluated by economists from various ideal camps, because the government has this instrument in hand, and that is the responsible budgetary policy. However, I would also like to remind you, and this is important, and let us not forget that the system is designed so that, alongside the government, there is a Czech National Bank which has a key role in managing inflation, and the Czech National Bank is an independent institution in this regard and should take steps to reduce inflation. So far, the Czech National Bank has tried to do so. I'm not going to go into controversy right now, if the interest is too high or too low, it doesn't even belong to me, and I can't comment, I'll leave it to the economists. Now there are fears that things will be different. I hope not, and that the Czech National Bank will continue to fight inflation very intensively. The next step that we are taking against inflation is that we do not increase its causes by taking large-scale measures and not giving widespread aid to people, but targeting it in a targeted way, giving it to the social groups that really need help. I've reminded some of the things that we've done here, and I think that in the Umbrella Against the Delicate, everyone can look at these particular examples. When I say that we have prepared an anti-inflationary budget, let me just remind you that our budget is with a deficit of CZK 280 billion, i.e. 96.6 billion, it is a lower deficit than the original proposal of the previous government. It is then CZK 220 billion year on year, and this is a clear anti-inflationary measure. We have frozen civil servants' salaries, reduced the state's operating expenditure by CZK 13 billion, but we have not forgotten the social groups they needed to increase wages, such as health professionals and teachers. Despite our austerity measures, we have enough money for pensions, compensation for entrepreneurs that the previous government has not prepared. We also have enough money to invest. We are investing much more than it was in the past, in previous years, and this is also important in terms of creating some conditions for the prosperity of the state in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u45	Time, please! And with the additional question again, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u46	Thank you, Madam President. I would just say that your advisor Mr. Křeček said on his Twitter this week that we lost the fight against inflation. That's a pretty high finger for me. As far as the Czech National Bank is concerned, I have very strong doubts about this, because clearly what she is doing doesn't work. So I don't know if he's into some kind of experiment-mistake, when the surrounding central banks are going the exact opposite way, it seems to me to be at least strange to a citizen. They're still targeting some inflation targets, still haunting us with deflation. So I would love to experience this deflation for once in my life, because I've been haunted by inflation all my life, but I've never experienced deflation, and it could be an interesting, interesting experience. I'd like to experience that I'm coming to the store, and things are gonna cost half the price instead of costing twice as much. But I don't know if it's all... you feel that it will be enough, or you have a longer perspective, not just the shorter steps here. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u47	There's still an interest in the reaction, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u48	Inflation, of course, is growing in Europe and is growing not only in Europe. To some extent, we see some trends that we may have known in the 1970s. And now it's just about looking at the Czech Republic, whether inflation is consistent with inflation in the surrounding countries or higher. And if she's taller - and she is, unfortunately - then we just have to talk about the causes. And that's probably where we disagree, because I've described where I and really a lot of economists across different camps see the causes. And I said that our government, through its economic policy and budgetary policy, is trying to face inflation. It really does not belong to me, and as Prime Minister I cannot even do this, commenting on the steps of the Czech Central Bank, the Czech National Bank. There is a new governor who had dissenting opinions, so we will see how the Czech National Bank's policy will evolve. I do not want to comment on the steps of the European Central Bank. Why doesn't she work at higher interest rates? Some other banks have already started working with it, let's look at the United States, so these strategies are different. Of course, the fact that the Czech Republic has third, second-highest inflation from the countries of the European Union is a really lifted finger for my government, forcing us to continue what we are doing. That is, they were economical, they were economical, they helped those who really needed help, and they tried not to spend unnecessary money - as I have shown, we are saving for the operation of the state, we just don't want to pump more money into... [[Time!]] [[Time, Prime Minister, please.]] [[I have to measure everyone equally, please. Thank you.]] I have so much to say, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u49	I know you have a lot on your mind, but we need to proceed with another interpellation. And I have one request, ladies and gentlemen: there have been voiceless mobile phones. I'm begging you to keep your phones down so we can have a decent hearing. And please, Mr. Andrej Babiš with another interview. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u50	Prime Minister, you keep saying that you won't let anyone fall and that anyone who gets into trouble has the opportunity to ask for welfare or housing benefits. So I want to ask you, have you ever been to the employment office once in your life? Do you have any idea how it works in real life? Do you know how long it takes for a common Czech citizen to get a housing allowance? Have you ever seen what an application for such a contribution looks like and what all the papers you need to document? Not once a year, but four times a year! You probably haven't understood at all that people who get into a crisis situation that threatens to terminate their lease because they no longer have the monthly rent and energy payments need help right away, and not for months. Your government has flooded the poor officials at the employment offices. Everyone has some capacity. All the people in need, including 300,000 refugees, you put on them, but you don't think that the labor authorities have some capacity and that they just aren't inflatable. Not to mention the fact that you've frozen salaries for those busy officials who work from I can't see to see. That's total arrogance. Do you even know how late the payout for the housing allowance is when you manage to go through the process of assigning it? That they are single moms or senior widows who are late on a regular basis, so their landlords have run out of patience and their leases have been canceled? [[15.40 hours]] This country is in trouble. More and more people are sinking into poverty, and you are doing nothing for them. You just promise, you send signals, there's an umbrella again, but you didn't give them any specific and quick help once. And people aren't stupid, and they've already figured out your strategy. You guys always fire some kind of bombing message as you help, and then it turns out that the help isn't really going to be for those you originally mentioned that it's actually not going to be that big and it's actually going to be in a few months, if it does. [[Time. Time, please!]] I'm asking if this... [[Time's up.]] I'll finish the sentence. [[President: Perhaps in the supplementary question.]] I'm gonna finish saying, "This, you really call this helping"?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u51	I'm asking the Prime Minister for a reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u52	Mr President, I not only know what an application for a housing allowance looks like, but I also share your dissatisfaction with how difficult it is and what it all means. But it's not my place, because I'm supposed to answer the questions here. I'd really like to put one down for you - you know why that is? Who did this to make it so complicated and that citizens face such terrible bureaucracy? Well, that wasn't our government, that wasn't our idea. That's just how it's set up, and we're doing everything we can to simplify it. Minister Jurečka is working intensively on this and we are not satisfied with it at all. But unfortunately, this cannot be repaired in a few months since our government is in power. So yes, the housing allowance is complicated and other social benefits may be complicated, and we want to simplify it, we want to digitize the state and we want to simplify everything. But it's going to take some time, because we've taken it from you in a situation that you rightly point out is just not good and that it's not entirely beneficial for people. So I take it as a self-criticism of the former government, and I can promise you that we will do everything we can to simplify it. On the other hand, I have to say that it's not entirely true that it doesn't get to people, that they can't actually ask for the contribution or that it discourages them, because not only have we extended the claim, when hundreds of thousands of other households are entitled to it, exactly on the housing allowance, and thanks to the regulation of the normals, the contribution is also increasing, but a very sober estimate is that 220 to 280 thousand households could touch it this year. And that doesn't seem very good to me. And when you say we don't do anything for people, well, increasing the existential and living minimum by 10 percent since April 2022, that's already, that's not enough either. The measure will affect 360 000 beneficiaries. And life and existential minimums depend on other social benefits, so it's certainly not enough. And as I have already said here, and I am happy to repeat it, we focus not only on those who have already got into trouble - that would be too late - and who can no longer cover the cost of housing, and therefore are entitled to social benefits or costs at all related to the precious which is now, because food prices and everything are getting more expensive, but - we also focus on the middle class, which always carries it all on their shoulders, and first on those of the middle class most vulnerable, and these are those who have children, whether they are families, households, or single-parents and single-parents. We have prepared a one-time contribution of 5,000 crowns, and people will know that. And it's not true that they don't know when, and that they're on them, that it's... We already tell them in advance: We will pay the contribution in August. Everyone can count on it, everyone involved, everyone can prepare for it, we want to do it as simply as possible, so that the bureaucracy that you are talking about in case of a housing contribution is not there. It is quite clear, they will have households with a gross income of up to CZK 1 million, for every household child, i.e. a child under 18 years of age, and in August those households and those people who are entitled to it will get it. I think that's a good, serious policy. Now we've announced it, and they know when they're gonna get the donation. But we didn't just take one-off measures again, it's a package to help those families with the kids. We have increased the maximum amount of parental allowance from CZK 10,000 to CZK 13,000, and this is not only important for the increase, but also means the possibility of getting into work faster, who wants it, and in this way the family can help itself. We are preparing legislative changes to support short and flexible jobs. It should have been here a long time ago, but we're doing it now to make it easier to combine child care with adequate work, and therefore a reasonable earnings. And that's a specific help to families. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u53	Thank you. And I will now ask the Member's supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u54	I will not argue whether Nečas, Drábek or Maláčová or Topolánkův's government are to blame. I think everyone knows that the ODS and the ČSSD have definitely damaged this country with their alliance until 2002, but that would be for hours. I have a specific suggestion, Prime Minister. I say, extend the time to approve the housing allowance not for a quarter of a year, but for one year. Ensure automatic payment of benefits at one specific date, so set the system so that once the approved dose is paid repeatedly every month on the same day. By doing so, each beneficiary will know when he will receive the money and thus when he will be able to pay the rent. So I'm constructive, and if you were able to make an app for refugees where every applicant simply logged in through a bank identity, fills out a few basic data, so he asks for a humanitarian benefit, why don't you do it for the housing allowance applicant? Simple app, the mayor downloads it into his cell phone, bypasses the village, all the seniors he knows about, and in financial distress, fills in simple, fast, efficient, sends... [[Time.]] [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[President: Please observe time, I must measure everyone equally.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u55	It really is not possible, I have to measure according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Ambassador Babiš speaks off the microphone.]] Please, Prime Minister... [[Petr Pura's.]] Please leave the counter. [[To Mr. Babiš.]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u56	[[Off the microphone to the President:]] Kindly let me finish.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u57	I have to measure them all the same. Everyone has one minute in the supplementary question. Prime Minister, are you interested in a reaction? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u58	I would very much like our government to come to the administration and state, which would be digitized, which would be non-bureocratic, where some of the promises you made to the government would be fulfilled, and where we would now be in these difficult times, when we are all facing a serious crisis, when there is an increase in the strain on the social system, when demands on what the state office or state authorities actually have to do and verify, if we had digitised it, it would have been simplified if legislation had been prepared here, if it had just happened that you had time here within eight years, when you were with the government, to do it. And we would help you do that. Remember, we supported all the digitalization steps. All the anti-burocratic steps you have taken - which you have done at all, there have unfortunately not been many - you have done with our votes and with our support, so now I am pleased that you are promising me support here when we simplify the system, and believe me, we will, unlike you, really simplify it. And we're also working on simplifying the housing allowance, and you'll see that the one-off contribution as we pay it will be as simple as possible. We will try to use all the modern digital tools we have at our disposal here. I would not build here what is done for Ukrainian refugees and Czech citizens against each other. The modern state must work just as well for everyone, and the fact that we have managed so well such an unprecedented, incomparable wave of refugees in the Czech Republic only shows that we have set these things well. Unfortunately, in other cases, we have taken over completely poor systems, cumbersome, bureaucratic, and we will have a great deal of work... to simplify them. [[- Please, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u59	Thank you. And before we proceed to another interpelation, I'm gonna load up the apologies. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský apologizes today from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today between 15.30 and 18 a.m. for family reasons. This is settled, and please, Madame, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u60	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, you have introduced the emergence of a new website "Deštník" against precious things, where all measures should be made public in a clear manner, which should help people during the price increase. That would be commendable if it wasn't some sort of reference point, because when you go to the Fuel Umbrella section for example, so when you read the praise there that you reduced a liter of gasoline by 1.5 crowns from 1 June to 30 September, you go to the link and click on the link of the National Development Bank that offers products. Similarly, for help for families with children, there you will get to the site of the Office of Labour, in help for seniors again to the website of MPSV. These are pages that work without your website. And I'm wondering, how much did this fun cost, who created the website, whether it came from a tender? As I was saying, how much did it cost, or his other administration, to ensure the promotion of the site, who ordered his advertisement, and whether it came from the tender? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u61	Thank you for the very strong respect of time, and the Prime Minister will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u62	I thank you for the question and for the fact that you drew attention to the existence of the website "Deštník v oddrahy." cz and graphically you have shown how we can disseminate information about this site. We rely on citizens to note this, too, when we point to it, and it is important for citizens to notice it. I don't agree with your interpretation that you'll only get there on pages that already exist. Of course, in itself this statement is true, there we refer to the pages that exist, otherwise it wouldn't even make any sense, but what is the point of the site is that there is very clearly everyone getting information about what they are entitled to, where they get it and how they can ask for it. And I think it's very important. When citizens look at this website - and I highly recommend that everyone look at it - they will not only see some general wording and a general overview of what the government has already done for citizens and how we have used the roughly 100 billion crowns that have gone to help the citizens with expensive, but they will also see what we have done for a particular group, whether they are seniors, parents and children, those who need help with housing, fuel, entrepreneurs and businesses, vulnerable groups of residents. [[shows on the laptop]] They can find concrete measures here, and they have direct links to specific sites to help them figure out how they get to these things, what they can ask for. And I think it's very clear, very understandable, and it creates an overview for every citizen of what he's entitled to and how we can help him. The problem, of course, is that a number of citizens are now in a situation they are not used to, because suddenly about social benefits - and this is a problem of housing contributions - they can and should also ask people who have never asked for any welfare benefits, who are not able to walk in it, it is something completely new for them. It's not even psychologically simple. And we call them - don't worry, ask for it, you're entitled to it, it'll help you. And here, really, anyone who even doubted or wasn't sure if there was any help involved, will find it here in a clear form. So I can only refer to the Umbrella versus expensive, to these pages that I think are definitely useful to citizens. As far as I know, the Umbrella website was expensively created at the Office of the Government, of course I don't have detailed information about it, but I'm happy to find out, and I'm sure you don't have to look for any problem. All legislative, financial and other rules are respected on such matters. And I think that this is a thing that, even if it costs something -- everything costs something -- it certainly pays off and is extremely useful, because that is where the citizens see the concrete steps of this government. That's exactly what you don't want to see, because even in these interventions, I can still hear: You haven't done anything, you're just preparing something, you're just talking about something. But it's not true, and citizens know that it's not true, and here, when they're not sure if the measure applies to them, on the website of the deštník versus expensively discovers whether they are and where they can get that particular help. 100 billion crowns, that's really not enough, and that's what citizens will feel. It will be felt by those raising pensions, by those having families with children and starting to get into trouble, by those citizens who are getting into existential difficulties as a result of expensive energy prices, expensive food prices, who are having problems paying their household. They're entitled to support here. Citizens will see how we fight rising fuel prices, what we have done for them. I'd like to correct your claim here. This is not a price reduction of 1.5 crowns, it is a reduction of excise duty, i.e. the removal of the obstacle on the Czech side, which could lead to price increases. So it's obvious things that everyone can check out and see if you're right or I'm right. [[The President: Time]] [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u63	And, Madam - an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u64	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, that you don't know such details on such an important website. But never mind, I'll ask in writing. You and your colleagues in the government often say that you can't help people across the board because state finances can't bear it. I see. Why, then, are we helping people from Ukraine? A number of our citizens, when they come to ask for a donation, are said to the authorities: sell a car, for example. Why don't we tell people who come from Ukraine who have provenly funds to take care of themselves? Let us help only those who really need it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u65	And I'm sensing an interest in an additional reaction. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u66	Well, madam, the fact that I don't wear everything in my head, and I don't know, you don't have to blame me, I don't even blame my students, because you just can't have everything, but you have to know where to get the information. [[in the head]] And I knew that, so I asked my colleagues, and you don't have to ask me for a written answer anymore. It was a small contract for CZK 30,000, we'll pay for it, it's not a government campaign, so I'm sure you have those answers. And again, I ask you not to oppose Ukrainian refugees and Czech citizens. It's tacky, it's inconvenient, it's bad. The fact that we managed to manage the huge influx of Ukrainian refugees, the fact that we were able to register for the vast majority of the people who came here, the fact that many of these people, thanks to the way we set up the system - and this is not just the government's merit - is the credit of the regions, cities, it is the credit of the citizens, their solidarity, that these people are largely accommodated and part of them is already on the labour market - that helps Czech citizens. That's the thing that keeps us from having any social tension, so that we have problems here that none of us want. So don't blame us for being able to handle the huge influx of refugees, the movement of people that are unprecedented in Europe after World War II, and the Czech Republic has done it in an excellent way. And you're gonna complain about it? That, Madam President, does not make any sense. It's not either Ukrajinec or Čech, it's absolute nonsense. We must manage the influx of Ukrajinec while taking care of Czech citizens. When the Czech citizen opens the Umbrella Against the Delicate, he will see what this government has done for him so he doesn't get into existential troubles when he gets into them, how we help him, how we help seniors, middle class, what we do with energy prices, he will just see that this government thinks of Czech citizens. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u67	I beg you very much to keep time. And now, within 16 hours, the last question can be given. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u68	Thank you. Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, after a few months of ruling, your government is ignoring its programming statement. I quote the point that I mean: "We will increase the quality of legislation. We will carefully consider each new regulation on the basis of an analysis of the expected impacts. Legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration shall be submitted in a standard legislative manner. Before submitting them to the Government, experts within the Government Legislative Council shall comment thereon.' My question is: why is this item of the government's programming declaration ignoring the coalition?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u69	Thank you, and now it is time for the Prime Minister to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u70	Madam, indeed the commitment to improving the quality of legislation is contained in our government's programming declaration. We apply to him, we do not ignore this commitment, on the contrary, it is still our priority. And that's the rhetorical question: do you know why the commitment is there? He is there, among other things, in response to the practice introduced under the previous government of Andrej Babiš, when there was overuse of speedy and simplified law procedures, both at the stage of negotiations at the level of executives, when, in particular, very often, interresorative commentary procedures were not carried out, or it was significantly shortened, and this is traceable, these are facts, even in case of substantively significant and controversial laws. Unfortunately, this practice has already been at the level of executive level in the past, but unfortunately, it has also continued in Parliament to use the legislative emergency procedure as well as to draft laws or parts of their adaptations, for which it has not necessarily been necessary to discuss them as quickly as possible, even though, for example, they did not immediately concern the measures necessary to combat the pandemic of the disease covid-19, which I would understand, and which did not fall under the conditions for shortening the negotiation in this state. Our government continues to intend on every new regulation, you mentioned it, to assess its implications, to define alternatives to possible solutions to the issue, and on the basis of an analysis - and this has simply not been done before, it has not been done sufficiently - based on an analysis of their expected impacts to choose the optimal solution. That's what we're doing, and we're gonna do it. Furthermore, our government's commitment that legislative proposals implementing tasks from its programming declaration will continue to be discussed or presented in a standard manner only after they have been discussed in the legislative bodies of the government. This is all true, and we're gonna keep it that way, and we're gonna do it differently than the previous government did. However, it must be noted that our government is also in a situation where it cannot fully fulfil its commitment to return to the standard legislative process in all cases. This concerns laws in which Russia's aggression against Ukraine has completely changed their urgency and urgency of their timely adoption. And my criticism, or the fact that I mentioned that this was a reaction to the practice of the passing government, was not about the measures that were then taken immediately because of the covid. There we understood the urgency, and we also supported a number of things without saying. And now, in the event of the effects and our response to Russia's aggression on Ukraine, it is necessary to take measures that must be taken quickly, immediately and where all the rules that are part of our government's commitment to a normal legislative process cannot be applied. In such a case, to give an example, there is a need for measures to respond necessarily to the gas or oil supply situation, and so on, when we have to respond to the turbulence in the energy market and so on, because there are simply issues where the standard process with all the time limits required would prevent us from taking the rapid measures that Czech citizens need at the moment. But this does not concern and will not concern standard legislation, where we declare that we want to increase the quality of legislation, and we will take care of all the things that you have quoted from our programming statement. [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u71	Thank you and with the supplementary question, Madame. Please, your minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u72	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will simply say - Parliamentary bill, press 110, MP - conflict of interest, you have it in the Government's programming declaration and it is a parliamentary bill, and frankly, the best obstructive material is the government's position, which lists all the shortcomings of this bill. If this bill had passed the standard legislative procedure, the Government's position would not have to contain so many legislative comments on this press. It's in your programming statement. It's an MP bill, and you're pushing it for an emergency meeting on the agenda. So it's against what you've been talking about for five minutes. That is why I called this point the Ignorance of the Government's programming statement, because it only applies sometimes. I understand the points associated with aggression in Ukraine, I'm not talking about that. [[Time, please.]] There was time for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u73	Thank you and now the last reaction from the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u74	I don't have the opportunity to verify it right now, but what you mentioned was the law that we actually presented with a parliamentary initiative right at the time or at the time when the government didn't come into existence, our government, so it's just the possibility that it wouldn't be a government proposal, not really. And, of course, our government is placed in a situation where, in order to even implement its fundamental priorities contained in the programming declaration, it had limited time to suspend the entry into force of the adjustment imposed by the previous government. It had to respond very quickly and without the requirements of the standard legislative process at the level of legislation, which would give us time to change already in the previous period adopted but still really ineffective adjustments. You probably know what I mean here, that's an example of the new construction law. And there is certainly a better and more clear solution for all the builders and other users of its modification than to change its modification after its entire modification takes effect and including the establishment of a whole system of construction administration, with which our government does not agree with the originally approved form. So there are exceptional cases where we have to move very quickly to just fill in the programming statement that you mentioned. But in our opinion, this creates a greater clarity of legislation than if we had acted in a different way. But to accuse us that before our government - you know how difficult it was, not for our reason - it was just necessary to accept some things and we did them in the form of a parliamentary initiative. [[Time, please. Time, please.]] But otherwise, we're going standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u75	Thank you. And now the time has passed for oral questioning of the Prime Minister, and I am handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u76	Have a good afternoon, everyone. We are going to interpel to individual members of the government, and I hereby call on Mrs Hanzlíková to present an interview to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka, to initiate a block of responses from the members of the Government to the interpelation of Members. And please prepare Mr. Kubíček. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our esteemed colleagues, our Minister, have been crushing individuals and families of high prices of energy, food, fuel and other commodities in the Czech Republic for several months now. So far, the government has responded to this by increasing the living and existential minimum by 10 percent and reducing the excise duty by 1.50 crowns. It is therefore a measure that is inadequate and rather symbolic from the point of view of real aid to people. The situation with extremely high fuel prices affects very negatively the situation of people who, due to their medical condition, are forced to regularly transport to medical treatment, rehabilitation, ergotherapy or other specialised therapy. These are mostly persons whose only income is disability pension, care allowance or mobility allowance. Many of these people are turning to me with the fact that they are getting into absolutely desperate situations. In the media, we could hear the government's recommendations to limit car driving to citizens. However, this group of people cannot do this, because visits to doctors or regular rehabilitation are vital to their health. I therefore ask what steps the MPSV or government will take to help solve the serious financial problems of this vulnerable group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u78	Thank you and the Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u79	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. Thank you for this interpellation with the lady. I think that this topic is really a topic that is important right now, it needs to be addressed, and we are dealing with it, too. I would like to say that when we look at the history of the contribution to mobility of people with disabilities, the contribution was introduced in 2021 and since then there has been only one single adjustment of this contribution and there has been an increase from 400 to 550 crowns. Of course, over the period from 2012 to 2018 and so far, the impact and effects of inflation are really significant. That is why, even about three weeks ago, we decided that we should prepare a complex of measures to support people with disabilities, which we will have prepared and present at the end of May and then logically implement at the end of May, so that we do not just solve this part, because for these people there are not only increased costs that affect fuel prices and their mobility, but are costs that fall, for example, on their various special dietetic requirements. We are discussing this together with the Minister of Health in order to remember and help these people, even in this area of costs, such as specific food, gluten-free flour and so on. We are also taking measures that would concern, for example, not only the increase in the mobility allowance - which I respond to will increase it, we are counting on it - but also, in order to do, for example, an adjustment to those parts relating to the employment of disabled people, so that we can also make an adjustment to the contribution given by the state to employers in this area. At the same time, it should also be recalled that both the current and previous government of the Chamber of Deputies have taken steps that are reflected in support of these groups of people with different types of disability this year. It is, for example, an increase in the care allowance in III. and IV. Grade. This was decided in fact last year and this increased contribution applies from 1 January this year. It is quite a significant amount that goes to these people and their families. Also, all the valorisations that we do within the framework of pension valorizations as prescribed by the law - whether the valorisation, which was on January 1st, and the one that will now be on June 1st, or the other one that will be on September 1st - even here, it is not logical to increase only old-age pensions. Here all pensions, including disability pensions, are increased by this rate, which is a percentage, so it is necessary to take these measures in the context that some of them are already happening. To support these people and their households, the state is giving increased funds. It will give, we will count on it, as well as in terms of how and how much we will increase the mobility contribution. What is also important to recall: the government has made one more adjustment concerning public transport discounts. We have extended the group of persons to whom these discounts apply, i.e. to a larger group of persons, not only the holders of the ZTP/P card, but also the group of persons who are in III. and IV. the degree for them to be entitled to the same amount of public transport discount. So there's a lot of measures that have been taken. Of course, we are also planning to increase the mobility contribution in this area, to make adjustments, and to increase this amount. So I guess that's the answer to what the honourable Member was talking about. I'm ready to give additional answers to a possible question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u80	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u81	Thank you, I certainly want to respond. Thank you for explaining this to me in such detail, but I've been asking about the real effects and the real impacts on those people aren't. I talk to them, they turn to me. It's a lot of people, and they don't feel any help from the government. I was talking about it, they're in a desperate situation. I'm glad you've decided on your mobility allowance now. I was wondering if you'd mention it because I thought about him, too, but for me, it's incomprehensible that you're thinking about it now. It's a plan, so it's gonna take some time, but these people were getting into their first troubles at the end of February. It's a huge problem for them every month, so I'm really asking because real help hasn't been there yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u82	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u83	I have to lay low here. You're wrong, madam. The real help is in several of the measures I mentioned, which go beyond the last House. Increase in care allowance in III., IV. The stage is a step that has been taking place since 1 January. Increasing pensions, including disabled people, is a step that is taking place on 1 January, on 1 June and will take place on 1 September. These are specific things that happen. Expanding the range of discounts for those who need to travel and can travel by public and public transport, although I am aware that this is not exactly the ideal way to travel for a particular group, and is de facto impossible for some of them. But even here, concrete steps have been taken to expand it. Normalities are increasing to help people, such as energy prices. So I refuse to claim that there's nothing going on here and that there's no help. Help is already here and at the end of May I will introduce the entire complex of measures to help people with disabilities, with different types of disabilities so that it is measures not only from the wound of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also from the overlap to the area of the Ministry of Health, because these are the two things that happen to those people. So we're doing these steps, we're preparing them, some of them are already in the realization, some of them have already touched the accounts of those people and their households.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u84	Thank you. Mr Kubíček is the next one with the interview. At the same time, I apologise for not attending today's House meeting since 17.45 for Mr Šimek's professional reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, Minister, I respond to yesterday's article where I read that you will respond to the so-called social energy tariff. It was an article, so, of course, I couldn't find all the things in it. I know that this cooperation must also be set between you and Minister Síkela, clearly. I have some questions for you because I found out that in the global, you would transfer the responsibility to the energy supplier. If I understood correctly, it was both electrical energy and gas combined. It's a little more complicated than that, 'cause I'd prefer those energy vouchers. However, I have some questions for you. They'll be very, very, very specific. Firstly, do you consult with suppliers from the start of this procedure? Because it affects mainly their costs and these are, for example, necessary investments in IT systems, in the management of these systems. This means that there are high personnel costs and, in some way, coordination must be prepared. Secondly, what method do you choose to define energy poverty? You called it the Institute of Socially Vulnerable Customer. I'm just saying that I've read some of the definitions here that have been, and they come from France, England and Sweden. Thirdly, energy poverty concerns the supply of energy mainly for heating, heating, or cooking. And do you plan to distinguish low and high-value tariffs? Maybe I have a feeling that this is the basic need to contribute to, but you don't want to contribute, I don't know, to the Christmas lighting of the house. [[16.20 hours]] So I would like answers to these questions and I am prepared on some professional basis to talk about systems that are elsewhere in Europe. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u86	Thank you and the Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, has the floor again. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u87	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, honourable Members, thank you for the interpelation, because once again it is one of the things that is very topical, when we see developments over the last almost three quarters of the year with rising energy prices, electricity, especially gas, but let us say also heat, when as a government we are looking for solutions to help households cope with the situation, because the situation is evident that we have not yet reached that peak, we still see that the increases and impacts on people are falling and we are trying to find solutions to help people, because the solutions that we can offer from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are in a way limited. They are limited by the capacity and throughput of the social system, which, in turn, has some precise rules, precise definitions in what we need from the customer, and even if we are looking for ways - and now we are preparing for the government's amendment to the State Social Support Act and the material need to simplify the contribution to housing - so it is obvious that we are not really able to serve, say, a large number of people here so that it is comfortable, fast and does not burden the applicant and the state to a greater extent. That is why I have repeatedly said for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that I would like us to find tools at the level of the government in cooperation with other ministries that could be more helpful in how to compensate for the costs that households have today and have relatively significant ones. We are inspired in the debate by what we see abroad, by what the European Commission's recommendations are, which clearly say: even revenue, for example from emission allowances, can be used to support households, to support socially vulnerable customers. Of course, it is crucial in how we are able to define the support - and the institute - in the future. We're really in this situation at the beginning of the story. There are different variations, different paths. For the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I have said that I would be close to defining a socially vulnerable customer, where we can be in a situation where we have a number of clear headings, where for example we evaluate the income group and its size, evaluate the health situation, the indisposition of the person concerned, for example, that he is an invalid pensioner at a certain level, evaluate the age and so on, or that the person receives some other benefits in the context of a material emergency or state social support. Then, of course, it can also be from the point of view of specific ways of protecting the customer. It's not just about the tariff, it's not just about the price, but it's about, for example, the conditions where the customer can and must not be disconnected, so that we know again that the client, for example in the winter period, just outside the regime that we've seen now in the DPI, will have some kind of protection status and so on. Then I think it is important that we also bring, for example, advice opportunities in the debate, whether it may be possible for people in the field of social services workers or, possibly, people in other areas of government who could also help people to focus on tariffs, to look for ways to reduce energy performance and so on. So these are other things that I think need to be included in this, not only the question of whether the tariff is to be bounded in some clear way, and then, eventually, how the state would compensate distributors, but at the same time that there are links to finding a solution to savings - using, for example, New Green Savings and so on. In this matter, as an MPSV, we consulted these issues when we addressed the issue of last instance suppliers, when we have been discussing the way in which we can help mitigate the consequences from the point of view of customer disconnecting, and in these debates representatives themselves, for example, said the suppliers of last instance: There is a need to look for solutions other than the social system, because clearly you and we feel that the social system has certain limits. Here, of course, is also a key view of the final Ministry of Industry and Trade, whether there are other options for solutions such as energy vouchers and so on. I'm not in a position to say this is the only right solution. I am in a situation where I say: The social system has its limits. We are not able to serve 300,000, 400,000 people here, if the situation requires it, we need to look for another tool that we could activate, which would simply be systemically simpler than the system of state social support in material distress. So this discussion is now in some, say, phase of the initial, we'll see how we can find good technical, legislative, but also administrative solutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u88	Thank you. The Member has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u89	Thank you for your answer. I'd just like to ask if they're really dealing with suppliers about their systems that work. I understand that this is not a definitive solution, but one of the many solutions that work. Even Minister Síkela kývat, I noticed that it is simply the cooperation of these two resorts, it must be. And then, actually, this isn't about Green Savings right now, it's a little bit for those income groups somewhere else, where it's also helping them, and it doesn't burden them the household. But here it really is a social tariff for the most needed ones, those who could suffer even health problems by lack of heat, lack of water and similar matters. So I'd just like you to deal with these things, if you'd like to invite us to the debate and inform us in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u90	You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u91	Thank you for that. As I said here a moment ago, we are really at the beginning of this process, how to set it up and how to do it parametrically, of course with suppliers, then in a situation if it was already clearer which solution we can implement specifically, so it is necessary for them to be at the debate. I also welcome the constructive approach that you, too, want this from the point of view of a person who has been on the Economic Committee for many years. But I think, for example, here's the New Green Savings question, it's not something completely distant. We have now worked with Minister Hubáčková over the last three months to ensure that the funds from the New Green Savings, from the boiler subsidies, are nothing but for the middle and upper classes. That is why, for example, we have now set for the boiler subsidies that, for the boiler subsidies of the socially low-income group, they will have a chance to reach out to the subsidy, and there is the possibility of co-financing by the state environmental fund up to 95 percent. So that's what the story is about, giving people really the final solution to help them, changing the source, having it cheaper, having it more efficient, and having the money for it. And this is how we need to look at other New Green Savings programs, where we can increase the state's co-financing based on what the social income status of the customer and his household is, so that people really touch it, and not that they'll be in a situation where we've been telling them for years that here is New Green Savings - have photovoltaics, heat pump - but those people haven't had a chance at all under the current conditions because they didn't have 50 percent to co-finance. That's something we're already changing, and we need to work with it in the future. So I believe that this system solution is also a possible way to reduce dependence on Russia. Every kilowatt hour saved, every kilowatt hour made at home on the roof, on the facade, makes a lot of sense, and that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u92	Thank you, and the next one with the interview is Mr. Lang, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, colleagues. Once again, I have one of my topics on interpelation. I'd like to ask a question. Now I'm gonna have some shimmering stuff in the framework of incoming Ukrajinec and other people coming from a place of battle. How many incoming refugees from Ukraine make up people with specific needs? They're Ukrainian Rom. How are they checked for double citizenship, so should they not be beneficiaries of humanitarian benefits? They are also people with other lifestyles and other needs. Here I will also use the citation of the Minister from his press conference, where he says: "The police will start to examine people coming to the Czech Republic more thoroughly. We will check the passports of arrivals to see if they actually contain a stamp and crossing from Ukraine to the EU. In the first days we didn't do this, it was too exciting." I find this phrase quite alarming. With my Ukrainian counterpart, I also intend once again to address Ukraine's police being more concerned with any organised crime. After that, I'd mention it. I ask the Minister: Why did he not come out of his own material, which was available to the Ministry of the Interior, where one of the points of possible danger or dangerous situations or risks is mentioned: "The misuse of the identity of temporary protection may be used by persons who do not comply with the statutory condition, an application for temporary protection from other, third countries or citizens of the European Union." [[16.30 hours]] It is precisely for those Rom people who are currently coming and taking large doses. It doesn't seem normal for Rom people from Ukraine to arrive, to draw relief benefits, and to return to Ukraine the next day. I ask why the Ministry of the Interior has not responded to its own materials and has not prepared for this situation? From my point of view, it could have been prepared for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u94	Thank you. I beg Vice Prime Minister Rakušan to respond. Next, Mrs Fialová will be prepared. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u95	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Member, thank you for your intervention, which is really appropriate to the acute situation that we are currently dealing with in the Czech Republic. Let me say one thing, and I am sure, through Mr President, as a man working in the field, you know: since World War II in the European area, and thank God for that, we have not registered people according to their ethnic origin. So, of course, we do not see people at regional aid centres depending on whether they are Romani, non-Romani or any other origin, and I think that if the Czech Republic were to do this, it would really be exceptional in the international sphere of countries, returning to European traditions, which I thought were already outdone. But what we are, of course, recording, and here you are not giving, through Mr President, true information about whether these people have only Ukrainian passport or double citizenship, that is, citizenship of another state of the European Union. If the incoming person has citizenship of another state of the European Union, mostly in this case Hungary, as has been mentioned, no humanitarian benefit is paid to him, of course, because it contradicts the legislative framework of European legislation of temporary protection, which we have implemented into our legal order. If we believe that there were different TVs to report that two hundred people would invade the office of work in Brno to receive a social benefit - yes, these people were actually waiting there before opening hours, yes, those people after opening hours - and I am not surprised that the staff were not satisfied with it - did come to the office of work in Brno, but not one of those people got to one single crown of our social support because these people, none of them, were granted temporary protection in the Czech Republic, because these people also had Hungarian citizenship or were not after the process of illustration, when it was verified that their sole citizenship was Ukrainian citizenship. And if we're talking about a serious problem that's here, he really is, which is why we have a situation at Central Station. That is why we are now building a tent town in Prague in Troja, because we need to check these people so that we don't give them temporary protection status before we find out they don't have double citizenship. These aren't any refugee camps we're building, they're accommodations for people who are waiting for this illustration. This illustration is carried out by the Directorate for International Police Cooperation of the Police Presidium and the address is examined by the Hungarian party. I've been on the phone with the Hungarian Home Secretary for half an hour today, and I asked him, first, to make these illustrations as quick as possible, and secondly, to be thorough, and the information that comes from Hungary is really clear. The Hungarian minister came to the satisfaction of giving us a contact for the whole matter, namely the director of the Hungarian Foreign Police. The contact person on the Czech side is the police president. I still have a little time to answer all the parts of your interpellation. If you're talking about the fact that we didn't check passports in the first few days: we checked passports. We checked the passports from the beginning, and when the man didn't have a passport, he was checked by the foreign police. Where, however, we were benevolent - and now, please, my colleague, through Mr President, listen carefully: if humanitarian trains were transported directly from Ukraine, which went directly to the Czech Republic, those people in the first stage could not even have had the passport stamp on crossing the Ukrainian border. There were thousands of people on the platforms and the illustration itself took place logically here, at the regional assistance centres to help Ukraine, or at the workplaces of the foreign police. And that was the only way we could handle the humanitarian crisis and the humanitarian disaster in the first phase when we arrived at 15, 17,000 a day. Now, of course, at the time of the arrival of 15 hundred people a day, it is possible to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u96	Thank you. Do you have an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u97	Thank you. I would like to turn to the fact that I have somehow defined myself here towards the Rom or the nerom. The situation is that the 3,000 people who are causing a certain problem in this huge number of arrivals, and that is the problem we have today at the Prague Central Station, Pardubice and Brno, are Rom. It is, and I have nothing against Rom people, and I have never said this, so I would ask you to tell me what can and cannot and should be treated since World War II. I'm not a racist, and that's not how I handled it. I just wanted to point out that we're already 70 or 74 days from the outbreak of the crisis, you and the Security Committee have always said that no one will be in any tents, there will be no tent towns, we're handling everything, it's all great, it's all great. I'm just asking, why didn't we prepare for these people to come, of course? I have mentioned this here once before that, within the vast number of decent people fleeing the war, there can come a certain percentage, and logically in every state, in every nation, there will be some percentage of people who are more troubled. [[Your time is up.]] And that was the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u98	Thank you. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. All right, well, let's not put words in each other's mouths. I have never used that everything is great and everything is great, it is again some interpretation of yours, through Mr President, Mr Member. There are a number of huge problems here, and the problem with those with which we need to verify two citizenships is really huge. Of course, we deal with a lot of things in some way as they come. At the same time, you asked me directly in the name of your interpelation, how many people with specific needs, Ukrainian Rom, we have in the Czech Republic, and I replied that we do not identify people according to their origins. I think the answer is quite appropriate. I can't tell you how many of these people are Rom. I'm able to tell you that there are 500 people at the Central Station who are going through some kind of background check. I'm able to tell you that we've already been through about 3,000 people, but I can't tell you if they're Rom or not. And I still have 50 seconds, so I'll try to get as much information as I can. There will be another colleague asking me in the next interview, where it will be more detailed. We have a series of measures we can take. We can negotiate with the Hungarians and with the Ukrainian party to make sure that these people come here as little as possible to punish any organised crime. We can tighten up the second to sixth doses, which Jurečka, a colleague of MPSV, is working on so that these people do not have the motivation to return and have to prove permanent residence. We have the opportunity to replace those we provide accommodation with a substantial dose, that is, with food and some basic security. These are the means we do. And for others, of course, we are also trying to motivate those people to return, or to allow them to return to the country of origin. This is what we are dealing with both Hungarian and Ukrainian sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u100	Thank you. Mrs Fialová, who will interpel the Minister of Industry of Síkela, will speak with the next interview. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u101	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the statutory city of Ústí nad Labem has asked me to submit this interpelation on the completion of the infrastructure on Lake Milada, which is currently in the administration of the state enterprise DIAMO, and the implementation of the reclamation of the former mining area is supervised by the branching plant PKÚ. Until the transfer of PKÚ to DIAMO, the company carried out its role responsibly and fulfilled its tasks - the construction of roads, electricity, water and sewerage, carried out an architectural-urbanist competition. [[16.40 hours]] Interpelation is related to non-compliance with the deadline of building connections and social facilities for booths for this season. In 2015, Lake Milada was opened to the public and steps were taken to ensure that the territory served after many years of plundering this landscape for recreation and leisure. For 2022, the investment plan to build connections to the sites of the future location of stands was approved at the PKÚ. Financial resources were also provided for this task according to the PKÚ information from the end of 2021. The cities and municipalities associated in the voluntary union of the villages of Lake Milada were informed of this fact at a regular meeting. Last one was 31. 1. where information was provided on the conditions of the Regional Hygiene Station for the location of stands, however, the suspension of steps to build connections did not say a word, rather vice versa. 25 days. 1. the construction office issued a decision on the location of the building. From this moment on, there was nothing to prevent the PTU from starting work. The deadline for completion was 30. 6. 2022. No one has been informed of the change that means moving the investment action to another period. 20. 4. 2022 was sent to refreshment providers information on new facts based on the current financing situation of the mining activity eradication process by the MIT. According to the decision of the director of the state enterprise, as of 19. 4. 2022 All operational actions which are not directly related to the necessary operation of the undertaking are stopped. And I ask, why have investments in promised connections been suspended?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u102	Thank you and please the Minister of Industry and Trade for your response. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u103	Mr President, Madam Members, honourable Members, by revitalizing the surroundings of the lakes, for example, Milada, the Most, which was created as a result of the smoothing of the consequences of mining activity, has been very active in the state for a long time. An international landscape-urbanist-architectonic competition, which was concluded in mid- 2021 and its results were published and presented at the end of June 2021, was announced to build the surroundings of Lake Milada for recreational sports, relaxation or educational use. After the end of the international landscape-urbanist-architectonic competition of Lake Milada, called Vize Milada, the work on the conceptual study of the territory, which is intended, inter alia, to determine specific points for building connections to engineering networks. The state-owned company DIAMO, a branch plant of PKÚ, prepares a public contract for the implementation of these connections with the expected completion in April next year. Since the connections will be built in the area of beaches with the largest movement of people, the implementation of these construction works is not possible during this year's visitor season. In the challenge of 30. 12. 2021 to submit offers for the provision of pet services in the season 2022: "The promoter expects the construction of electrical connections to positions on the Main Beach and Trmice Beach during 2022. The evaluation of offers for the provision of services was carried out by DIAMO, a state enterprise, a branch plant of the PKÚ. In the meantime, since the Regional Hygiene Station in Ústí nad Labem did not allow stand operators to opt out of their operation, DIAMO representatives are conducting intensive negotiations with selected candidates, including representatives of municipalities and the region, where a provisional solution is likely to be reached, where the stallors will be able to meet at least partially the conditions of the Regional Hygiene Station in Ústí nad Labem, so this season is not at risk in terms of providing services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u104	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u105	Thank you for the word and thank you for the explanation and clarification that it is really on the shoulders of Diam or PKU, and I am very sorry that the associations or communities that are in the voluntary union were not informed a little earlier. They didn't really know until after the announcements of the individual boothkeepers that there was no fulfillment of the promise given to them. I understand, then, that the situation will somehow be resolved. And I just have a request to your party colleagues if you could tell Ústí nad Labem that you manage the state enterprise DIAMO and not the city that thinks the city is responsible for the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u106	Thank you. The Minister will probably no longer respond, so we can move on to another interview, and this is Mrs Balaštíková, who is interested in interpelling Minister Hubáčková. I don't see the lady, so we can have another interview, and this is Mr. Janulík, who is interested in interpelling Minister Válek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent minister, my interpellation is simple. It concerns vaccination, of course vaccination against covid-19, because we sat together on the Health Committee last time, and I regularly heard criticism of how from your mouth, how this vaccination is wrong and how it doesn't progress. And now the situation has turned around. We get reports every day about how covid disappears, and so he doesn't disappear as optimistic as the news sounds. I can confirm that from my practice. Of course, the statistics are very distorted just by not registering, but of course, with us in the population is and will be and will certainly appear in autumn, at the latest in winter, but I would rather see it in the autumn, another wave. The fact that we already have and we're dealing with post-covide stuff and everything, but now he's basically not gonna get a pause. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Izraelec are inoculating the risk groups with the fourth dose, we're not really inoculating at all. Not a word about Novavax. Nothing, I don't know. You said that bad strategy, as it was, strategic communication was called, or you said that you would improve it and that you would convince the nonvaxers, but now you're not convincing anyone at all, because the vaccination stopped, and I think we're getting a little bit of a bomb here because I, we don't know how it's going to be because he's acting incredibly erratic, the virus. Professor Dušek could be giving long lectures here. But I would like to hear the answer to my question, what is the strategy of your government's vaccination, because now it seems to be none at all. And so we hear that everything is ready, it goes into the drawer, one, two, three, it's going to be, well, now there's nothing at all. I suggest if a masochist is looking at it, the interpelations, so that if he isn't vaccinated, he'll inoculate, because he probably doesn't expect us to exactly like that peaceful autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u108	Mr. Ambassador, time. Thank you. Minister Válek is excused. So we can move on to another interview, and this is Mr Flek, who will interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u109	Hello, colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am sorry that I am out of breath, I have just had a meeting with the Minister in exile from the Burmese Government, who - at the beginning I would just like to say - is very fascinated by the way we help Ukraine, and in that direction I will also target the question of the Minister of the Interior, where I would like to ask how the European Union views the dual citizenship of refugees who are now flowing to us and whether they are entitled to financial support or temporary protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u110	Thank you for the brief, clear question and I will ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan for a response. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u111	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I am actually thematically, as I have looked at these interpelations, mostly I will follow up on what Mr Lang has already begun in his question. So here I'm going to try to give a brief answer in terms of quoting a given standard. The Institute of Temporary Protection is based on the law of the European Union and is regulated by the Council Directive on Temporary Protection. It was created in 2001 when I simplify it, but it was only in connection with the migration wave from Ukraine for the first time at European level, which was decided by the meeting of the Interior Ministers in Brussels a few weeks after the beginning of the Ukrainian crisis. [[16.50 hours]] Until then, we have applied our own legal instrument, then we have transformed it into our legal system within the Lex Ukraine after the House, the Senate, the signature of the President. At national level, we have a clear definition of this by lex Ukraine, but in a simple way, this question can be answered quite clearly, so that members or citizens of another European Union State, of any other European Union State, whether Hungary, Germany, Poland or not, are not entitled to temporary protection in another Member State of the European Union. It is explicitly created for fleeing Ukraine, defined in detail in our law, which we have discussed here. But the fundamental question - no one with dual citizenship is entitled to this protection if he is a citizen of a country of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u112	Thank you. I wonder if you still have a follow-up question? You don't. We can move on to another interview, which will once again be for Mr Vice Prime Minister Rakušan, from Mrs Karla Maříková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, it follows from the public sources available that you have established a working group to prepare an amendment to the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members. According to information from individual security forces, this task force is already doing some work. In your opinion, representatives of trade unions should also be part of the working group. In your letter to the members and members of the Security Councils, you explicitly state: "It is also true that we will, of course, consult the trade unions of the Security Corps, whose representatives are members of the mentioned working group of the Ministry of the Interior. " I would like to know, Minister, on what criteria did you select trade union representatives for the working group? Which trade unions are represented in the working group? And for what reason are these trade unions, and not others, which are proven to be active in the security forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u114	Thank you, ma'am. I'll ask Vice Prime Minister Rakušan for a reaction. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u115	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will answer your question in a matter of fact, Madame, through the President. I'll just confirm that there's a working group here to amend the Service Act of the Security Corps. I would just like to say - and this is not contrary to what you have claimed only to complement - that the group is not political, it is not a single politician. There are actual members of the various armed forces, there are police, Customs, firefighters, there are members of the Prison Service and the group is led by the first Deputy Minister of the Interior, not by a politician, but by an expert deputy. I want to say one thing that has appeared in public space within various rumours. The topic of this group is not debts, the topic of this working group is not cancellation of the service. No cancellation of the service is being prepared in the framework of the amendment of the Service Act. It's one of those rumors that often appear in public space, and I thank you for the opportunity to disprove it here. The amendment will have a technical character. He will try to remove the little understandable passages of the law, to remove the uncertainties surrounding the way in which income is calculated for the service over time, the conditions of work from home, the system of travel refunds, the relationship between the municipal administration and the management of the service and so on. The aim of this group is to produce a technical proposal with which all associations of employees in the Czech Republic, representing the most important trade unions, will be understood. It is the five most important major trade unions. The Working Group and its 30 members are at the limit of size allowing effective expert cooperation, and I believe that the five most numerous trade union organisations operating in the congregations under the Service Act are a very sufficient and representative group representing the actual field employment perspective of individual members of the congregations. I think you're probably heading to the Pro Libertate union organization, which wasn't really invited, that's true, but five of the most important and numerous, yes. Many other smaller organizations that work within the congregations were simply not invited. We were based on the number of individual trade unionists, based on who is the long-term partner of the Ministry of the Interior when negotiating all employment conditions. And I dare say that there's never been a working group set up here at the Home Office to read even five trade unions. I consider that number to be sufficient and representative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u116	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is still interested in asking an additional question? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, can you name here specifically what five organisations are and how many individual members' organisations are involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u118	Thank you for the brief question. Once again, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u119	Madam, through Mr President, I cannot. This is an oral interview for which ministers do not have so long to prepare. I will, of course, be very happy to do this in writing, I do not remember from my mind, but I will take it as a task to train memory, how many members have five of the most numerous trade union organizations. I'll tell you from your head next time, but I'm sure you'll get an answer in writing by then. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u120	Thank you for this reaction, too, and we can move on to another interpelation. Mrs Pastuchová is interested in intersecting Minister Jurečka. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u121	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister isn't here, which I'm sorry, but he may still hear me somewhere. I'm going back to a subject that's been talked about a lot. The topic is the promised child allowance of CZK 5 000. I am glad that the government has decided in this way to help families who now have to fight fast-growing prices, although I personally would have imagined this support a little differently and a little more conceptual. I'm gonna put aside the fact that even though you said you weren't gonna release communication bubbles and you're always gonna talk about something, when it's done so you don't have the public, you obviously didn't make it here. From the original information of Minister Jurečka that households with annual net income up to a million crowns will be entitled to the allowance, the income became gross. But what's bothering me? I am concerned about the limitation of the age of the allowance until the age of 18 when the minister tells the children to go to the brigade and make extra money. I want to ask if you really haven't considered, since you've already changed the parameters of this post so many times, if you're seriously considering increasing your age there, because it's the future students who are preparing for graduation, for college, and I think that they and the mothers of the singles of these students would own this post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u122	Thank you. Since the Minister is not here, I will ask another with an interview, and this is Mr Síla, who will interpel Mr Rakušan, Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u123	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the current situation in Ukraine, there is a clear attempt to provide information and misinformation as part of the tactics of warring opponents. As far as I know, our republic is not in a state of war with anyone. In order to accept any communication, we must be able to doubt and be able to obtain as much relevant information as possible. Unfortunately, the government is preventing us from this fundamental human right. It censored and literally shuts down sites that bring other than official opinions, and threatens to imprison those who have a different view of the conflict in Ukraine than of the official opinion. In itself, this is not compatible with democracy. [[17,00 hours]] In this context, it should be recalled that it is not legal to block websites without the decision of the court or the police. We should be thinking beings, not robots that they program, what and where to say. First of all, we should be interested in the real state of affairs, regardless of who we sympathize with, or who is whose ally, which is irrelevant in the search for truth. Whoever has an opinion that does not conjure up the current government is immediately labeled, persecuted, defamed, and facing hateful attacks in the mass media. This intolerance can't lead to anything good. The SPD is protesting the return to the days of dobrý voják Švejk, when, figuratively speaking, behind every facebook corner, there will be some Pepek Vyskoč to turn us in when we write somewhere that the Emperor is an asshole or that we will not win this war. Once again, I repeat the question. Who will have a patent to determine what is and is not true?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u124	Thank you. And I'll ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan for a reaction. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you, through Mr President, for your question. Colleagues and colleagues, I certainly don't. I don't want to be the one to decide what's true and what's not true, but we won't deny that misinformation itself exists. It is deliberately false or manipulative information to influence decision-making, the opinions of those who accept it, and some of them may, of course, be a serious threat to the Czech Republic. They may be a threat to its constitutional order, internal and external security, public order. Some types of misinformation, covid disinformation drink two liters of saponate and covid disappears, may even threaten human life. I mean, disinformation itself is nothing that we would invent, what we would define in some way, but it's an existing reality that we're facing. And of course we live in a different world than we did before. There are not only conventional attacks, as we see in Ukraine, but attacks are also conducted through information, through information war, through forgery and distortion of reality. We have here various deep fake videos where President Zelenskyj calls for Ukrainian soldiers to surrender, and so on, done by the Russian opponent, propaganda. And that was an obvious lie, he never said it. So don't be afraid to call this a lie, for misinformation and for something we allow ourselves to withdraw from public space, because at that moment there is no way: either I believe him or I don't. The man didn't say it, proved he didn't say it, it's just a lie and a lie as such at this important strategic moment can't be spread, it can affect how Ukrainian soldiers might behave. So, of course, the fight against misinformation is an important part of the protection of the interests of the Czech Republic, and of course every government that honors the democratic order must be at war. And you are not even right, through Mr President, that the government has shut down some websites. The government did not shut down the site, but at the moment or in the beginning of the war, the CZ.NIC operator decided, and the government did not actively defend it, the sites full of lies and propaganda in favour of the Russian aggressor, who is perhaps clear, to shut it down. Let us not say that there is no truth and that there is only x of reality and we each have the right to our own truth. If you go to Prague like this and take a picture of Prague from the Charles Bridge, then you take a drone and you take a picture of Praha from the drone, then you go to the subway and you take a picture on the subway and then we put together the pictures next to each other, so it'll all be Prague, but always different Prague. That's the point of view, that's the point of view. But if you start telling me there's no Prague in that photo, but it's Berlin, then you're lying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u126	Thank you. Do I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u127	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to point out that the CZ.NIC, the firm, didn't just stop the web sites by themselves, but he was instructed by military intelligence to do so. Otherwise, I would like to point out that you don't have just two meters to assess information, you have a meter of one and it works for you. You don't have to compare murder to murder, just see who does. When it comes to lying, you don't care what he says, you care who says it. What doesn't suit you and your breadmakers is misinformation, even if the information has been verified a hundred times. Your lie is just so-called information. The Censorship you're introducing has one goal: defending against often otherwise unsustainable lies from the true so-called disinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u128	Thank you. The Minister is interested in a reaction. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u129	Yes, very short, though not a question, but the reaction will be very short. This is exactly it, this is filing information without any verification. You're going to say, "Something is labeled a lie just because someone says so." An example? You're introducing censorship here. What did we do with censorship? That's just it. When I make a statement, I prove the resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u130	Thank you. We can move on to another interpellation. Mrs Dražilová is interested in intersecting Minister Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u131	Thank you. Dear Minister, we all see this, and the media also confirms this, when I will quote that "freedom in the form of own housing, whether bought or rented, must go away with many young people, prices are too high." Many young people are really starting to accept the idea that they will never build their own house, that they will never reach the property and have to stay in the rental. Why? Because, of course, prices are very high, both real estate and mortgage prices. The mortgage prices are at least available in the last 13 years. The average Czech family spends 65 percent of their net income on a mortgage, in Prague it is even 86 percent of its net income. And as we could read today, it's a record that probably won't be the last this year. And now for my question. The interest rates of mortgages are rising rapidly, as well as the threat of Czech households. In my constituency, I was approached by a few young people asking what to do next, because their interest rate fixation ends, and they told me that they would pay a few thousand crowns more, which for some families can be a really catastrophic scenario, no matter what we're talking about over and over again, and these are energy prices, food and so on. So I would like to ask if your ministry is preparing some form of assistance to these families, which will hit high interest, because I really believe that families will not be able to fulfill their obligations, and they may even lose their homes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u132	Madam, time. Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka will respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u133	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, thank you for this interpellation, because I think that the question of housing, housing support, housing availability is really an issue that is very important to our government. I personally see it as essential precisely to create the conditions for young people to have the conditions for starting a family, having children, having backgrounds. I've been through this time of my own. I remember, in 2005 after graduating from college, I took a mortgage, the interest rate was about 5% at the time. However, I am aware that the situation is a little different in that we have experienced a period of decline in mortgage interest rates over the last ten years or so. Now comes the time, thanks to the huge inflation caused by Putinův war in Ukraine, which brings instability to this sector, and the increases in rates are evident here. [[17.10 hours]] And the subject, I don't want to downplay it at all, I take it very seriously, which is why I also had a meeting, or my deputy and my team, about fourteen days ago with representatives of the Czech Banking Association, when we discussed with them the question of how they see the development and impact of their clients at this point, whether they are observing any increased risk for clients who could not manage to repay their mortgages. At this point in time, they do not have the information, communicate with clients, are able to close additions, are able to adjust the length of repayment during refinancing so that the increases in monthly instalments do not lead to the client being unable or unable to pay the amount of the monthly mortgage. However, the issue of housing is not directly the gesture of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, it is mainly the gesture of the Ministry of Regional Development. Here I know that Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister Ivan Bartoš are preparing a specific arrangement for which we have been waiting for years, and this is a new law on available housing, so that there are support mechanisms in this law that would really support not only specific families, households, but also housing communities to offer affordable, fast, cheap housing, which unfortunately is missing here in the Czech Republic, which is why x has not been able to deal with here for many years before. For us, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we are taking social measures that lead us to help families with rising spending in areas, say, rising energy prices, rising food prices - those steps are taking, the government has decided on these things. We aim to help families and families not only in terms of increasing the living and existential minimum, which has already been made since 1. 4. This has helped some 370,000 people who have increased other types of welfare benefits or material distress. The circuit has spread, and we're counting on the government to take a step to increase the living and existential minima again from 1. 7. The specific financial support of CZK 5 000 for parents is also directed to help families. That's why we're launching it now so that we can really pay this off as soon as possible. So we are taking comprehensive measures to help families in this difficult situation to support their income, let's say their economic stability, and I guarantee that we will continue to take these steps for the government. We will also monitor developments in the mortgage market, we will monitor increases in mortgage rates, we will monitor possible threats and risks that could lead to an increase in the risk of people possibly losing a roof over their heads. And maybe we're ready to find out how to lend a hand. So we don't underestimate the subject, we're ready to implement it, we're going to - and in the case of a specific solution that would relate, for example, to the issue of dealing with interest rates and the like, there's a more question to colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Finance, that's not entirely my competence anymore. But I guarantee we're not the ones who wouldn't see the difficult situation. And if the situation so requires, we will look for further solutions to further strengthen the income situation of households and, above all, young families, which are vulnerable groups of people. And I must say that even for me as President of the KDU-ČSL it is a topic that is really very important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u134	I thank the Minister and ask if he is interested in an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u135	I don't have a question anymore. I just have one more reminder. A one-time allowance of CZK 5,000 isn't gonna solve the mortgage. That interest of 5%, as you mentioned when you took it, it was a different time and real estate prices were really completely different. But I didn't really have enough to ask you the question that if your ministry is planning something in cooperation with other ministries or, like, negotiating with banks, and you answered me that, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister will no longer respond. I would now, please, make one slip, for the reason that Mrs Pastuchová came along with the fact that she was not allowed to be influenced by the way her colleagues squeezed time, she did not get the right time to ask - and that is true, it was less, so I would take advantage of this situation, in the meantime, Mr Vice Prime Minister Jurečka arrived to repeat her question. You'll have your time right now, and the Vice Prime Minister will be able to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u137	Thank you, Mr President. I had a minute or 20 left when the minister was supposed to answer, so I looked at the clock and I was so surprised that I was reading so slowly. I'm glad the Minister's here. So I would ask again about the child allowance of CZK 5 000. As I said, I am glad that the government is taking this step, although it should be different for me, but I would like to ask you this, because the Minister can trace the previous interpelation, and I am struck by the fact that there are 18 years of age. The minister, by your means, said that these young men and girls could go on part-time jobs, which I think I know with single moms from personal experience that this is the case, and not from 18, but from 16 to earn money. And I'm asking if you've already changed or said in that bubble that we don't yet know what it's going to look like, who's going to pay it, how it's going to be asked, how it's going to be judged, if they're married couples, whether they're going to prove one salary, or whether you're really considering changing the fact that children over the age of 18 who are studying it, because they're getting ready for their next life. And I think that just when I've known you for so many years and your KDU-ČSL party, which has the support of families with children in the program, if you really don't think about increasing that age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u138	Thank you, and Vice Prime Minister Jurečka will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u139	Thank you, I'm sorry, I didn't have time to get here for an interview from an important meeting, so I'm glad we didn't have to deal with this correspondently, but that's how we can deal with it. I have to say, and I say this in the last ten days or so, that all the details and all the specific parameters, including the method of payment, will be published by the administration at the moment when we have prepared the draft bill that we will submit to the government. I believe that we will be able to do so so that this proposal can be discussed by the Government on 25 May, so that during the month of June we can complete the legislative process and then start the implementation. From the point of view of how we set the age for those children, there were more variations. We discussed where the degree of vulnerability is, where it is possible that there is already a period when children can help to cover part of the costs associated with their education with their upbringing through economic activity. Finally, after the debate in the government, we have come to determine the age at the limit of 18 years. And I am aware that there are then students who have completed high school in the fourth year, or then in universities, higher vocational schools, but of course there is also an objective need to perceive that these students also have the opportunity to really earn their own money. A lot of them do it, there is a situation on the labour market, when they really are interested in these people, in their brigades, in their part-time jobs. After all, we will support the part-time work of those students under the age of 26 in legislation, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is also preparing now. So, knowing that we are doing these measures in an extremely extraordinary situation, we're doing these expenses that are really going to increase, to pay the debt of this state, in a situation where even these children will have to pay the debt when they start working hard and they're going to be a taxpayer, so we're looking for a balance to make it so that they're really targeting the most vulnerable and vulnerable single-parents, the single-parents, but in an objective situation where a daughter or a son can go and earn his own money, so we're going to make 5,000 crowns in the course of the year, and now I'm going to say it, even outside the winter semester, outside the summer semester, right on holiday, so I think that the chance is really real for anyone who wants and who can. So that's what I think needs to be taken, too. I know not everyone likes to hear it. When I pull it on myself or I pull it on my children, my sons, we've all just been from the border of fifteen, sixteen years old, when we could, we were able to go to the brigade, work, and eventually in college - I was already on my own, I started doing business. So we're also looking at this with this optics. I understand that we can call for it to be even more social, but if we were to give away what, if we had savings left here from previous governments, we would like to do so, but unfortunately, this country is not in that situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u140	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he has an additional question? He doesn't. Thank you and thank you all for your correctness. Another question, respectively, is Mr králíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u141	Good afternoon. Before the commercial pause of a colleague from the STAN movement, I would like to do one more opposition interview for Minister Jurečka. Dear Minister, you will remember that during the last parliamentary term we approved a package supporting the electronisation of the public administration, the so-called DEPO. As part of the amendments at the request of then Minister Maláčová, the proposal concerning the electronisation of service in employment relations was not loaded. The motive of this proposal was mainly to respond to the development of digital technologies over the last 15 years, to simplify electronic delivery of important labour documents, not to change the rules of delivery of documents and not to resign to the protection of employees where justified. You will surely agree with me that the current regulation is obsolete, outdated and does not serve its original purpose, which is the protection of employees, and is rather an administrative obstacle and a complication for employers, because the knowledgeable employee can effectively avoid the delivery of documents from the employer. You will also agree with me that this topic is very important, even in the pandemic, when many employees started working at home offices, and this situation persists. As part of the approval of that law, a resolution was adopted calling on the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to form a working group of experts composed of representatives of the social partners of the Ministry of the Interior, MPSV and experts from application practice. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you whether your ministry will work on this issue, whether it will restore this working group and whether it will be possible to participate in this working group from the opposition position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u142	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and Prime Minister Marian Jurečka will speak with the response. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u143	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, honourable Member, also thank you for this interpelation, because I think it is very correct on the one hand, it is quite rightly targeted at the current problematic situation, and I must say that the digitalisation issue at our department is absolutely essential. We are actually a resort serving the largest number of citizens in this country, roughly 7.5 million people in this country are our clients, whether through the Czech Social Security Administration, through the employment offices and so on, so it is absolutely essential for us how to make life more enjoyable, to set up a client environment, an affordable environment of state services, and at the same time to reduce the crazy administrative burden we have. Sometimes I feel like we're in a situation like we could almost run carrier pigeons, because the information system and documents are really desperately behind in the 21st century. So we're doing things here that - in the private sector, in the banking sector, they haven't known paper and pencil for ten years, unfortunately, in our country, the clerks still at the employment offices, at the Czech Social Security Administration, translate it into systems that can't load it, or they can't do it directly through an electronic form and a digital interface, so we have a lot of work ahead of us in this respect. We have now taken the first two breakthrough steps, and this is the administration of a humanitarian benefit, which is now half as digitally as it is today, and the solidarity dose is running completely digitally today, although I say that roughly for the first applications that were submitted by 20 March, there was a relatively higher error rate because it was also caused by the way and in which the visa was issued. But we're pretty good at dealing with that now, let's just say, and it shows that the path may be, maybe it's quite fast, and we're doing our best. I've also downloaded people from, say, a commercial, banking environment to come and do this digitalization because it's not a question of an I.T. guy who knows how to compete with a lawyer. This is a question of changing the philosophy and approach of people who can really set up a digital process from the point of view of how we write the law, after how we administer it, how we technically secure it, after the client interface. So we're working on it. And your particular question. I am very pleased and I must say that on the one hand I was pleased that the board of directors was founded, and indeed 5. The 3rd resolution was adopted, but when I looked into the annals of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I found that although she was born, she was created and met only once, nothing since. So it's certainly a place for me to be happy and thank you for the offer, and I'll also address the representatives or your representatives from the clubs, whether yes or SPD, to send out experts, and for each club I'm sure I'll be happy to accept one nomination, so that you too can contribute to this process. I'll take that as a gauntlet, I mean it. I'm a person who likes to be on the House floor, where we don't always agree, where sometimes, unfortunately, it's something that isn't entirely representative of the general public, but when there's a consensus that maybe there's a consensus, so I'd be happy to invite you to one of you, if it's you or anyone else, I'd be happy to invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u144	Thank you, too. The Member still has an additional question. In the meantime, I will read one more apology - Prime Minister Petr Fiala's today from 18.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. Thank you and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u145	Thank you so much for the answer. I would just briefly mention - or I agree with you, because there was also an accompanying resolution here, when we, I think, by your voices, in general at the time of the opposition, adopted an accompanying resolution, which obliges the government or calls on the government to prepare a amendment to the Labour Code, in which it proposes new rules for simplifying delivery. So if this is a resolution, I'm sure we'll be happy to work together on this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u146	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u147	Thank you. I'll just fill it in. We are counting on the government's legislative work plan in 2023 as well as the amendment to the Labour Code, where we want to anchor these principles of digital communication here, because it is not completely normal again, and the time of the covide showed it in full nudity that we are not able to deal with operationally even for people with full electronic or banking identity, so that they can conclude their working relationship together or modify it, or eventually end it, or give information in a digital environment that it is simply not normal. So what we're counting on is that this should be able to get into the amendment to the Labour Code in 2023. It's not gonna be easy. I already have signals that there are groups of people who are gonna have some problems or reservations about it, but I think it just makes sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u148	Thank you. Another interview is Mr. Letocha, who will interpel the Minister of the Interior and Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u149	Good afternoon, my dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention will be about the emergency shelter, and I believe that the opposition will also be interested, given that this week, Mrs Válková's concern has fallen, too, with regard to the crisis at the main station. At the Prague Central Station, as we all know, there was a need for accommodation for a group of people who arrived to us and are waiting to verify citizenship. I am glad that the Ministry of the Interior, together with the management of the capital city of Prague and of course firefighters, deals intensively with this situation and the solution is the construction of an emergency shelter, i.e. a tent town that originated yesterday due to the firefighters in Prague Troja. Minister, what is the capacity of this tent town, and how long does it take for people to stay in tents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u150	Thank you. And I'm asking Mr. Vice Prime Minister for a reaction. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u151	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for your question. I am glad that, here in the Chamber of Deputies, we are able to take up examples of good practice on the part of the opposition and governments. We have learned how to rule in the past period, and you have certainly learned how to do opposition work, so that is exactly what it is, and I am glad that we have active government MPs who are not afraid to interpel their own ministers, they must show such courage. As far as the situation at the main station is concerned, it is not really good. The really - and here I give the truth to Professor Válková - is close to a humanitarian problem. We really see mothers sleeping there with children in the cold corridors, and the situation must have solutions. [[17.30 hours]] We have long called on regions across the political spectrum - now it is not a political pouch - to try to provide accommodation capacity and groups of refugees with specific accommodation needs, because we know that there were great demands for some accommodation of a larger type, non-dividing families and so on. We figured out as a state of 23 objects, some objectively inappropriate were, but some could have been used. However, it means taking on some kind of political responsibility, regionally and regionally, and deciding that such objects will actually be accommodated. On top of that, perhaps even with the municipal elections coming up in the fall, it wasn't that strong. We actually said, which was already mentioned here by colleague Lang, that we do not want to build refugee camps, and we do not do that either. So far, the situation with the number of migrants is not such as to have to build some refugee camps, camps, large-scale facilities on a green meadow. This, however, is a specific group of incoming people, where there is a verification of whether they do not have double citizenship. This verification as such must take place within 30 days, but it will usually take place significantly faster, i.e. those people should actually be accommodated there only within a few single days and then, if they only have Ukrainian citizenship, they will be included in the classic accommodation system at regional assistance centres to help Ukraine as anyone else who comes from Ukraine to the Czech Republic and fulfills all the requirements imposed by law. The capacity of this facility will be 150 people. We realize that there are more people at the main railway station at the moment, but we want to get there especially mothers with children, and we also negotiate with the City of Prague about one stone or two stone buildings where we can accommodate people who are currently at the main railway station in the short term. It can only be dealt with systemically only by dealing with the Ukrainian side, by affecting criminal activity, which attracts people to come to individual countries of the European Union with a vision of profit - it is not just the Czech Republic. We also consult with German colleagues, with Polish colleagues, simply such attempts appear in other Member States of the European Union. To make the conditions difficult, I have already mentioned this in my reply to Mr Lang's interpellation, and also to ensure that the humanitarian benefit, which we are working on with Mr Jurečka, could be replaced by food by basic security for those arriving. And, of course, the Minister of Transport and I are also discussing how to allow people who are not entitled to temporary protection in the Czech Republic to return quickly to the country of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u152	Thank you. There is an interest in an additional question. It's a very correct interpelling mode today, so let's see if it sparks now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u153	So I did not originally want to have that question, and what greater heroism do I have to do when the minister fails to answer one of my questions, and that is: how long does it take for people to stay in tents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u154	Mr. Vice Prime Minister wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u155	Yes, we have it with the Vice President's moderation today, so thank you. Mr. Ambassador, the maximum residence for one individual person, which follows from the law, is 30 days. In that time, he must be verified, identified. If it is a person with a Ukrainian passport, goes back to the accommodation system, if it is a person with a Hungarian passport, the Czech Republic has no obligation to provide him with any protection, actually any social assistance, it is from the point of view of European Union law a person who moves freely in the Schengen area. And we will do everything we can to motivate such people to return home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u156	Thank you and we have another interview, and this is Mr Stržínek, who will interpel the Minister of Síkela. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to ask a question or rather a request to the Minister. It concerns the solution to the critical situation of cities and urban organisations found in the DPI regime. Because of the cessation of activities of some energy suppliers, many cities or their organizations have found themselves in this very regime. Here's the problem. The current Public Procurement Act is putting us in a trap in this critical situation. We have to compete with energy suppliers, but no one's competing. So far, we've been buying energy on the commodity market. On this platform, however, there is almost no trade at this time. We are in DPI mode, we try repeatedly to compete with suppliers, but de facto it is not possible. We had to cancel the procurement procedure for an over-the-counter contract for the supply of electricity because we did not receive any offer. The competition authority says: "Suppliers are obliged to follow the Public Procurement Act. Public contracts are required to be awarded in principle in the procurement procedure. Exceptionally, a negotiated procedure may be used without publication. However, in the case of the use of the so-called JŘBU, the contracting authority is only entitled to request the performance to the extent necessary, so it is certainly not possible to conclude a long-term contract in the negotiated procedure without publication.' However, existing energy suppliers, for example, refuse to conclude a short-term contract by the end of 2022. So this is a completely stalemate situation. At present, the Public Procurement Act cannot be implemented, as the market is not working and no one is making offers. Ten regions are said to have no energy purchased for next year and 130 municipalities end their energy contracts at the end of the year in our Zlín Region. The cities and their organizations that have entered the DPI mode and are in vain trying to get a new supplier are many. [[- Mr. Congressman...]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u158	Mr. Ambassador, you will be able to say so in the supplementary question, but I have to be fair to everyone. [[Member of the Trench: Okay, thank you.]] Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u159	Mr President, Mr Stržínek, honourable Members, on the issue of dealing with the critical situation of cities under the DPI regime, I would like to say in general: the last instance supplier's institute is legally anchored in the Energy Act primarily in order not to interrupt the supply of customers in the event of a sudden termination of the energy supplier's activities. None of the clients of energy suppliers who suddenly ceased their activities found themselves without supplies. The problem was a high price. The supplier of the last instance for new customers did not buy electricity and gas, so he bought them at currently high prices. The last instance supplier's institute is limited to a maximum duration of six months. During this time, the customer must find a standard supplier. For this reason and because of the budget advances only for the winter period when energy payments are high, the advances for the last instance supplier's customers were much higher than for the normal supplier, which calculates the advances for the whole year. According to the information provided by the market operator, 99.7 percent of customers left the last instance supplier mode. Unfortunately, there were still customers in the last instance supplier mode after the end of the six-month period who had not entered into a standard contract with the energy supplier, despite the fact that energy traders fulfilling the role of the last instance supplier took various steps to contact customers in the last instance supplier mode and inform them of their situation. They worked very closely with labour offices, municipalities and the Energy Regulatory Authority. They tried to contact customers individually with reference to the available state aid if they were in a difficult situation of life. [[17.40 hours]] As I have already mentioned, the delivery of the last instance is legally limited to a period of six months. Then there will be automatic deregistration of the supplier of the last instance. Disconnection for non-payment is a clearly defined and regulated procedure, which normally occurs and takes place in the energy sector. Unfortunately, in the experience of traders, many customers are only willing to deal with their situation when they are really disconnected. In the absence of withdrawal of the payers in the last instance supplier mode at all, this would be an illegal advantage compared to ordinary customers outside the last instance supplier regime. For these reasons, it is recommended that customers who are in the last instance supplier mode conclude a proper contract with the energy supplier, which they can choose themselves. Again, the delivery of the last instance was from the outset understood as a temporary solution and a safety net. However, if I understand correctly from the assignment of your interpelation, some cities have a problem with securing a standard energy supplier after switching to the supplier of the last instance. The problem is that suppliers are not willing to conclude power supply contracts for a short period of time, for example for six months. In addition, the relationship between the customer and the supplier is a private relationship that the state cannot enter. Nor can the State order suppliers to enter into a contract with a select group of customers. However, I offer mediation of negotiations, for example, between the Union of Towns and Municipalities or the Association of Regions with important suppliers, where we would look together for solutions. Finally, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Industry and Trade deals intensively with the issue of the supplier of the last instance. The Ministry of Industry and Trade also prepares legislation, an amendment to the Energy Act, which reduces the last instance supplier's regime to three months, so that after this time, those who have properly paid invoices can automatically switch to the standard annual product of the supplier. The powers of the Energy Regulatory Authority should also be increased.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u160	Thank you, and Mr Stržínek will still have an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u161	Dear Minister, I'm sure you're right in helping so-called natural persons, citizens. Those who enter the DPI mode are allowed to re-registration and transfer to some large players on the market. However, I am talking about a situation involving cities, municipalities, regions or their contribution or business organisations. They are strictly bound by the Public Procurement Act and we are really running into a barrier where we are unable to compete because suppliers do not report to these competitions. We cannot go straight and negotiate with ČEZ, for example, on supplies at spot prices, because we would break the law. For me, this technical and legislative problem will have to be addressed by amending the Public Procurement Act, because, on the one hand, there are companies that are in the DPI regime, and then the companies that end the term of existing suppliers, and they will solve the exact same problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u162	Thank you for asking, and I'm asking the Minister if he has... He's no longer interested in getting off, thank you. And I will ask Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, everyone, and have a nice evening. Minister Baxa, I would like to ask you by means of an interview, if you could explain to us the situation that occurred during the distribution of grants for music festivals, that is, from the field of living art. Among the professional public, the final decision of the Ministry brought about quite a negative response, including the members of the commissions who evaluated the applications submitted. I am not sure whether the decision-making was entirely objective, because some of the reasons are really somewhat striking. For example, the Struna Autumn festival received one of the biggest subsidies, almost CZK 7 million, which is about a third of the festival's budget. The reason is that the festival has grown at the time of the covid, which I cannot quite imagine at all the restrictions that have been. There is not much confidence in me in decisions that have fallen on the Ministry of Culture because it seems that according to the allocated subsidies, the Ministry is trying to please especially the events that take place in Prague. And I want to ask, or I want to ask you what the reason is. If I give specific cases, maybe you'll get a picture of yourself. Two very comparable jazz festivals, both budget and attendance, were supported in a completely different way. While the action Young tuned jazz received a grant of CZK 1.2 million, Bohemia JazzFest sharpened the wheels, he did not get a crown. Traditional festival Let It Roll got less than much, but much smaller festival Respect World Music Festival. For example, the Soundtrack festival, which earned international fame during its existence, differs quite significantly from others by its focus and is visited by music stars of world format, received nothing. [[I must also interrupt you...]] Yes, and I would like to ask you, Minister, if you could explain to us all the changes that have taken place in this evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u164	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u165	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, through the Vice-President... Is this where it's supposed to be used, in interpellations?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u166	I'm not sure, but maybe...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u167	Through the Vice-President. Thank you for the question. It's a subject that's attracted quite a lot of attention, so I'm gonna take the liberty of saying the basics. This is the so-called festival grant program of the Ministry of Culture, where they are supposed to focus in individual areas the largest and most important festivals. The programme was set up to distinguish between normal grant projects, which often involve relatively small actions, from those really large ones, which have genre or size, or, for example, an international overlap of greater importance. Unfortunately, the festival program was underfunded from the very beginning of its existence. It was assumed that the funds would grow into this festival, and of course the problem had become very significant, I would say, at the time of the covideo pandemic, when it suddenly turned out that the festivals were not happening, or some of them could have been very limited, but on the other hand, many of them drew extraordinary covido support so that the festivals were actually preserved in life. Bottom line, the result was that this year's festival subsidy programme was attended by applicants who submitted applications for nearly CZK 300 million, and I was faced with a difficult question of how to cope with the fact that some savings were made in these areas, and I finally decided that the festival programme would not be limited at all. This means that the most money in the entire program of living culture was directed to the festival subsidy programme. Thing one. The second thing is the evaluation system itself, which is dealt very intensively with in the long term in this festival programme. At this point, I don't want to evaluate the procedure of the Ministry of Culture officials who, after all, are responsible. As the way the projects were evaluated seemed understandable to me, I think that is an adequate word, understandable, and that is why I decided - and I would like to underline this - to write off the proposal for the distribution of subsidies to individual applicants under the so-called big festival programme without change. I didn't interfere. All the examples that you have mentioned here are proposals, or, therefore, the subsidies already granted today, which have been approved by my signature, but on the basis of the procedure of my officials, who have taken the next step in the evaluation after being discussed by the individual subsidy committee. I might say this a little more complicated on purpose, or I would like to say that the method of evaluation is actually two-stage, when the requests are discussed by the expert committee, then the key definitive proposal is made by the officials of the relevant section of my ministry. As I say, the system has already existed there, I have not changed anything about it, I have not changed the results proposed, but, given that I have recorded these reactions, and I was very sorry at the time when they were carried out in other programs of the Ministry not completely negligible savings or transfers of amounts, the festival programme has not touched on it, so I have instructed that a series of debates will take place with individual actors, with all associations that associate potential applicants in this festival programme, so that all criteria are clearly known in advance in the subsidy programme for 2023 and that the criticisms that have now been heard, that the evaluation committee has not understood, have not been informed in time, do not accept the subsequent evaluation of their proposals submitted to the officials of my Ministry. [[17.50 hours]] So much for the thing itself, I guess. I do not think, my colleague, that there is any disproportion of Prague versus non-Prague action. Except for the Prague Spring, which starts today, which has won CZK 27 million - the largest ever, the next highest subsidy in the order has already been won by events outside Prague. I will commemorate the big festival Smetana's Litomyšl - I think 14.5 million crowns, 11.5 million crowns Janáček Brno festival. I think that there is no problem or problem, but it certainly deserves the agenda for the discussion of the various actors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u168	Thank you for keeping up the time and, with an additional question, the honourable Member will come forward. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u169	Mr. Secretary, I've been through the chart and I've read it, it's a simple number. You'll see where the money went, and you'll see that Prague is preferred. However, it gives me quite a mistrust of the evaluation of some festivals, because I don't think he really knows the evaluation committee or the festivals. Now I will talk specifically about the Soundtrack, which belongs to the international concept and every year more than 30,000 visitors visit it in Poděbrady. The Commission has written that this is a family festival and that it should apply from public sources. I just want to point out that Soundtrack always demands public support from both the county and the community. I find it very important that those who evaluate the festivals really know them. I have to say, they don't know them, because otherwise they couldn't write the evaluation they wrote. It is also about the importance of individual festivals. I took the job, I looked up the websites, I compared the traffic, the photos from here and so on, and it really doesn't agree with how the subsidies were allocated. I took the job, and I'd like to ask you to do the job, too. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u170	Thank you. The Minister still has an interest in responding. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u171	Thank you for the floor. That, Madame, is a different kind of debate. I didn't know you were after one particular festival that you're focusing on in this way. Of course, we can discuss how the Soundtrack festival was evaluated. I just want to point out that I didn't interfere with the work of the expert committees, and I don't think it's fair to say that on the basis of one particular example that you chose, you are questioning the work of those committees as such. If you feel the committee doesn't know the festival, I don't know. I can respond to that in the sense that each particular example of each individual commission can probably be demonstrated by knowing it and not knowing it. I had no idea. I'm sure I can answer some of the contexts of the Soundtrack Festival. But I want to stress one thing. Of course, a large majority of these events take place in Prague, so logically afterwards, when you mechanically add up the items according to the venue of the Prague versus the Prague festivals, they will come out to you in Prague. But otherwise, I don't really understand how it could happen that only Prague festivals are preferred. In addition to classical music festivals, when we say that Prague Spring is out of the category, the Litomyšl festival is the second with the biggest subsidy. In the alternative music festival category, the highest subsidy was given to the Colours festival, which is in Ostrava, so we could go on a case-by-case basis. But of course, when 10 percent of the population of the Czech Republic lives in Prague, there is probably the most logical event here. I certainly don't think we have a commission that's unprofessional that doesn't know the situation. Evaluation always causes some kind of counter-reaction. Like I said, I don't know if it's specific. So if you're particularly interested in the Soundtrack Festival in Poděbrady, I can't tell if the committee knows or doesn't know him, or if she's cheated or cheated him. I can take a look at that, but I don't think our committees are professional in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u172	Thank you. We can move on to another interview, and that is Mr. Jiří Hájek, who should interpel Mr. Síkela. I don't see the MP - sorry, here, I'm sorry. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u173	Thank you. Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I have come here to show courage and to ask my minister. So I'm asking Minister Síkela what the current state of filling gas reservoirs and what measures and how you'd like to fulfill what you said we'd have them filled by winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u174	Thank you for asking. The Minister wants to respond. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member. To your question about the state of filling gas tanks, I can tell you that gas supplies are growing very rapidly. Their condition for this morning exceeded 1 287,000,000 cubic meters. This means that domestic storage tanks are filled to almost 40 percent. Compared to consumption in previous years, if supplies from Russia are stopped, current stocks should last at least until the end of the summer, i.e. by the end of August, and significantly longer in the case of restrictions on consumption. The actions of our Ministry have also contributed to this positive development. We have been in intensive contact with traders, and already in March, we were in favour of them dealing with the guarantees at OTE. We also want to motivate them to fill the bins through the crisis measures that we have issued on 28 April of this year. On the basis of this, the first auctions are already under way, where gas storage is financially supported by the State, so as to compensate gas traders for both the price difference between the current gas price and the so-called futures for the coming winter, as well as the restrictions on the handling - and this is very important - of such stored gas. The acquisition of gas into the state material reserve held by the Administration of State Material Reserves is also helping to fill the reservoirs. The most frequent contribution is the Energy Regulatory Authority's step, which issued a modified price decision on 10 May introducing a 100% discount on the annual price for the reserved fixed transport capacity for virtual gas storage points. Current gas reserves are thus more than twice as high as last year, when Andrej Babiš's government was at the head of the country. That energy security has been reprehensibly neglected. Let's just remember the fact that on day 17. 12. 2021, i.e. when Mr. Andrej Babiš's government handed over the office to us, the gas reserves in domestic storage have been the lowest since at least 2014. Now the pace of growth in gas reserves is among the highest in Europe. Compared to how much percent has increased since the end of the heating season, we are even the most successful. By converting the number of megawatt hours in stock to the number of inhabitants, we are in third place behind Austria and Holland. The crisis measures that we issued last week will strengthen the state's influence on how they will deal with the gas stored with our assistance. We are also preparing other measures that will strengthen the state's influence on gas handling in domestic storage tanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u176	Thank you and I ask, do you have any further questions? No. The next is Mrs Adámková, and she will interpel Mrs Hubáčková, who is excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u177	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. First of all, I want to wish the secretary health, because as far as I know, she apologized for health reasons, so I hope next time we meet from eye to eye. However, I will read the questions that are about the environment, which, as you well know, is a very important factor in the health of the population. [[18.00 hours]] Firstly, it is the quality of our soil, because we know very well that health professionals are finding pesticides, and unfortunately it is not clear what farm. It's not a simple question, so I'd like to ask if there's some study going on on about finding farms in the water and so on. Furthermore, with regard to air pollution, around 280,000 people die every year in Europe because of poor air quality, as large formations show, and the main reason there are respiratory diseases, tumors, cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, but unfortunately also reproductive and developmental disorders. So my question to the Minister is whether there is any similar analysis under the Ministry of the Environment so that we can know what affects the health of the population in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-12-ps2021-019-07-010-112.u178	Thank you. Madam Secretary is excused. And since we have exactly the time, I am of the opinion that for today's day of discussion, we have closed the oral questioning. Thank you, everyone. And I merely remind you that we will meet at 18.15 when the 23rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin. I am now interrupting the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday 13. Five to nine o'clock. And again, I'll meet you at the 23rd meeting at 18.15 in 15 minutes. Thank you.
