ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u1	27. Government bill on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services / House printing 160/ - first reading We interrupted this item at the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 28 April 2022. [[11.00 hours]] I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up again by the Minister of the Environment, who will replace the Minister of Regional Development Ivan Bartoš, as well as by the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Adamec, to take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will continue with the interrupted general debate to which Members have entered in this order - Mr Vrána... I don't think Mr. Vrána is here, so we'll move him to the end. Next, Mr Sládek, Mr. Sládeček, joined the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the explanatory memorandum, I have read, among other things, that the bill will contribute to the fulfilment of EU commitments to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants from transport, the so-called Green Deal, as the measures supporting the use of procurement to promote clean vehicles are one of the ways to achieve decarbonisation of transport. This is certainly important, but the impact on the state budget and other public budgets will largely depend on the type of vehicle being purchased and the choice of alternative drive. For this reason, the cost of the state budget and other public budgets cannot be quantified in a precise manner, but only some qualified estimates can be made. This concerns both the costs associated with the acquisition of the vehicle and the operating costs. The Ministry of Transport has developed the following estimate of the impact of the new regulation on the customer of public passenger transport services, with the effect that this impact will largely depend on the development of the bus market on individual alternative fuels, which can be clearly predicted in advance. At present, for example, CNG buses are at 130 per cent the price of a diesel bus, battery electric buses are at 200 to 250 per cent the price of a diesel bus and hydrogen buses are at 300 to 400 per cent the price of a diesel bus. In the case of hydrogen buses, it can be referred to a hydrogen mobility study for the Ministry of Transport, which shows that the price level of one hydrogen bus for the European market should fall from the current EUR 625 to 650 000, approximately CZK 17 million, to EUR 570 to 600 000 in 2020 and then to EUR 420 to 450 000 in 2025 and even to EUR 400 to 450 000 in 2030, which is still more than CZK 10 million per bus. Similar price declines can also be expected for battery electric buses. According to the European Commission's comments when discussing the amendment to the Clean Vehicles Directive, the price of battery electric buses should be comparable to the price of a diesel bus by 2025. That sounds good, but I haven't read anywhere, for example, what is the life of electric buses, how will be disposed of, for example, used batteries and how much will it cost if there are enough charging stations or whether we will have enough electricity and many more. I could go on like this for a very long time. In the future, there will probably be a whole range of technologies, especially battery and hydrogen technologies. Hydrogen, however, has the greatest potential to be used especially in long-distance freight, because it offers better conditions of arrival and time of refueling compared to battery counterparts. In passenger transport, hydrogen has the potential, especially as fuel for deliveries that need to move on motorways at higher speeds, as well as larger cars. Unfortunately, we cannot predict the future, but the economy of operation, purchase price and access to filling station infrastructure will also speak to the number of hydrogen cars on the roads. One bus will cost approximately CZK 15 million. This is almost three times more than a regular diesel bus in the category of 12 meter public transport vehicles. Can we afford it today? I assume that carriers will therefore have to increase the price of fare for our citizens, at a time of rocket-growing energy prices, food and other raw materials, even more burden the budgets of Czech households. Since the current government is very far behind with any support from Czech citizens, it is best that we reject this government proposal and leave more money in their wallets to our citizens. I read that the French town of Montpellier came years ago with a plan to restore the fleet of bus transport by buying 51 hydrogen buses, which were to be put into operation between 2023 and 2025. But the city pulled the rescue brake, and the hydrogen buses were diverted at the last minute. The reason for this was the calculation of estimated operating costs that the city had to process. It should have resulted in the cost of 1 kilometer to be around EUR 0,15 per kilometre for the electric bus, while the hydrogen bus was to be EUR 0.95 per kilometre, or more than six times as much. But it is not clear what was or rather was not counted into the calculation. In any case, there is agreement on significantly higher costs for the operation of hydrogen buses in professional circles across Europe in general. While the bill will contribute to meeting the European Union's commitments to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants from transport, the measures supporting the use of procurement to promote clean vehicles are one of the ways to achieve decarbonisation of transport. This is certainly important, but at a time when the initial enthusiasm for the introduction of low-emission vehicles in Europe is already falling, I believe that at this difficult time we should have different priorities and we should address much more serious problems that are undoubtedly affecting our citizens today, which is why I am making a motion for rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u3	Thank you. I've noted the motion to dismiss. And now we will continue the general debate. Next in line is Mrs Dostálová. Sorry, I have two factual points here - Mr Koten first and Mr Adamec, the rapporteur, on the other hand, will wait a little while longer. The first point of fact. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would very much like to respond here to my previous speaker, because what he listed here was very important. Unfortunately, the fate of Europe and European citizens is decided by people who are not experts in technical details and who are not at all dealing with such classic corny ones - where they are served. As far as electromobility is concerned, it's a total chimera, where in a few years we'll be dealing with car batteries that are now used in electric cars that are very dangerous. Electric cars and electric buses are on fire quite often, but no one is dealing with the environmental impact of these fires and then the ecological disposal of the batteries. I therefore think that those who set standards in the European Union should really wake up very quickly and talk to experts about what is technically possible and what is not possible before they give such standards and are directing physical matters, because these are physical matters. And if an official in Brussels remembers it's his way, but it doesn't respond physically, it just won't work. [[11.10 hours]] And other aspects must be taken into account in ecology, i.e. ecological disposal, etc., and energy performance in production. No one's taking that into account either. So far, high learning experts have calculated that the energy intensity and carbon footprint of any electric vehicle is 170 percent of the normal combustion engine. [[Time.]] That's not how we're gonna get the decarbonization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u5	Thank you. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u6	Yes. Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I will briefly respond to what I have just heard in this debate. I think that, rather than a technological problem, it's an economic problem. Let's face it, that's just the way it is. I think technology is in development. I wouldn't care if electric cars burn better than normal cars. There weren't that many cases, and the media is exaggerating. But on the other hand, it doesn't work economically, and this directive that we're supposed to apply was prepared before 24 February, actually before the war in Ukraine, when there was enough gas and we could, without any guaranty, issue selection procedures for CNG buses and possibly electric buses, which I might have talked about some other time, because this is quite an interesting topic, I would like to perhaps introduce to you how it can work in the city without any problems. This is about the economy, it's about enough, and I don't think anybody here has responded to the situation that's at this point. I don't think he's gonna be able to resist this trend, but we need to have a clear vision of what these commodities are going to look like in the future. In the general debate, I proposed an extension of the deadline, I think for 72 days. Of course, I talked to Minister Bartoš about the problem. They're all afraid we're gonna pay fines, penalties. I don't think so, because we're discussing this at the moment. But I will not propose an extension of the time limit for discussion in a detailed debate, but I will certainly not support a shortened deadline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u7	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Kobza, Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. I would go back to the question of electromobility, which I've been dealing with for years, and I think the fundamental mistake that's happening right now at this point is that we're trying to put all the electromobility in one bag, because it's not gonna work that way. Another situation is moving around the city where there are chargers and where you drive relatively short tracks to some I don't know 10 kilometers, 15 kilometers, in Prague for example, and the second thing is when you need to move from Prague to Břeclav. That is also what needs to be understood. The second thing is, of course, that electric cars are now so expensive and so problematic that basically people who depend on cars won't take them. And the point is, now that we have a plan to electrify everything, remember what our plan is to build more power plants and other power sources, because the question is that the transmission network can take it all, and the question is that we should be able to put the electricity together at all. So, please, just remember, the solution, that we're gonna put it all together like watermen on Sazava and Captain primátor Dittrich on the Vltava River, so that's the way to hell and it's not gonna work. Trust me, it won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u9	Thank you. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u10	Through Mr President, I do not want to attack you at all, Mr Member, you are right. You're right, but the problem here is much more serious. It's not just that we're draconianly upped prices and we're wondering how to do it. Here's the problem, what's the problem, that's what's been spewing out of Brussels all the time. Take how many goals you have here, what you have to meet. In fact, you're right. Moving in time - I agree with that, but now take that - and that is what I have mentioned here a long time ago, whether it be RED II, whether it be RED III - these are just the goals that are set for us, for our republic, and not just for us, for all the Member States, and they have to meet those objectives, and those objectives are really very ambitious. And if now - that is what I said here yesterday or I think I mentioned it yesterday - if two key committees in the European Parliament, the Committee on the Environment and the Economy, say that they will not count the core and that they will not count the gas, so we are getting into draconian problems, really draconian problems. So it would be nice if someone in Brussels was making something up, so that before they figured something out, they'd put it on paper and say, "You have to, so they have to tell us how we're gonna get to that goal." Because we're gonna find a way, and they're gonna tell us in a minute, but you're not gonna go that way because you're not gonna count here. So it's a really big problem. That's not a small problem, that's a big problem, because those targets are in every field, it's not just electromobility. That's the environment, that's the industry, and now all of a sudden you find those targets don't fit into you. So one will fulfill the goal, but you will prevent the other from fulfilling the goal because it has no way of fulfilling the goal. So I think that it should be pushed within the Presidency to make a revision of all the directives and it has been said at all whether it is feasible or not. To say yes, we realize this, we want to reduce the carbon footprint. [[President: Time, Madame.]] But tell us, for fuck's sake, the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u11	Time. Thank you. We are going back to the general debate and this time Mrs Dostálová has come.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I will basically follow up on what has now happened here in the context of factual remarks, because we are actually discussing today's draft law on the promotion of low-emission vehicles, that is to say, mandatory quotas for the purchase of electric cars for public and sector contracting entities. I beg you, public and sectoral contracting authorities, and the debate that has taken place here in the context of factual remarks is indeed an alpha omega. It just applies to all municipalities, regions, states and so on. And it must be recalled in the context of this law that we basically have a duty to do so within a certain period of time, that is, we have from the law the percentages that we have to fulfil in the context of public procurement until 31 December 2025 and from 1 January 2026 to December 2030. And in this context, I would perhaps remind us that we are all aware here of what awaits us all in municipalities, regions and sector contracting entities and so on, for road categories M1, M2 and N1, 29,7% from the date of entry into force until 31 December 2025. There really isn't much in the context of what has been said here that it isn't really clear how the electricity is going to be and so on if it really is going to be economically viable for those contracting entities. After all, at the level of municipalities, regions, the state, we all have to behave economically. And the dialogue - I understand now that these proposals, these transpositions of the directives, the energy crisis and what is happening to Ukraine and so on. The question is whether negotiations with the European Commission should not be initiated and whether, in this situation, in this energy situation, it is at all meaningful to discuss such matters at Member State level or to call on the Commission to discuss the need to extend the deadline, that this is not possible, because all municipalities and regions need to evaluate it. I'll move on. A further almost 30% then from January 2026 to 31 December 2030. For class road vehicles I of category M3 and class A of category M3 and vehicles intended for operation on the trolleybus track 41 per cent from the date of entry into force of this Act until 31 December 2025, a further 60 per cent thereafter until December 2030. For road vehicles of categories N2 and N3 1,9 % by December 2025 and an additional 11 % by December 2030. Otherwise, please, it's Section 4. I don't want to read it here, so I don't want to delay it, but I just think it's important to mention it. And in the context of that, because when we handed it over, we had a contradiction with the Ministry of the Interior - our government - and the contradiction could not be eliminated. Of course, I would very much like to ask what happened to the contradiction of the Ministry of the Interior, because the Ministry of the Interior insisted on extending the exemption for the vehicles of the Ministry of the Interior - that is, the police, the integrated rescue system and the security forces - so that all vehicles of these components fall within the exemption from the obligation to purchase the specified shares of low-emission vehicles. And I think that's absolutely crucial, because if the exception with the Ministry of the Interior hasn't been resolved, those shares will fall on the other contracting entities, which means they'll get a percentage increase on the cars that the Ministry of the Interior didn't meet. [[11.20 hours]] And here I consider it absolutely fundamental - I understand that today the Minister represents it probably very difficult, because it is being dealt with by another minister - but again without an answer to this, so that we can continue to discuss the press here with a clean slate, I think this should be answered because I can't imagine that someone's responsibilities will then fall on the municipalities, regions and other contracting entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u13	Thank you, Madame. Your performance brought up three factual points. First of all, Mr Koten. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u14	Thank you, Mr President. A moment ago, it was said here that the Ministry of the Interior should have a negotiated exception in terms of replacing classic cars with electric car internal combustion engines. Of course, it is clear above the sun that police in carrying out their tasks and the entire Integrated Rescue System must have vehicles that are able to drive from point A to point B without running out of batteries in the meantime. That's the first point. Personally, I cannot imagine that rescuers who are going to intervene to save the lives of a Czech citizen will have an electric car and will pray to reach the site because battery capacity is approaching 20 percent, i.e. speed will be limited and other things will be limited, such as heating and so on if it is in winter. I feel that these directives that come from the European Union and from the European Commission and give Member States the duty to implement such nonsense into their legal system, so we should think here about whether there really are crazy people sitting there and those fools don't want to eliminate us here. Just that we have to talk about this here and it is commanded, so our sovereignty as the Czech Republic really moves around zero, because here most colleagues say - we have to implement, we have to implement. Have they all gone crazy? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u15	I also thank you for your attention and for your time, and another, with a point of fact, will be heard by Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u16	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. There's only one thing I'd like to remind you of. All these electric cars have always been tested under ideal conditions. Then the ideal conditions will pass. I went with a colleague from Ostrava and we couldn't drown much, it was cold, he said to me, "Get dressed properly, we wouldn't make it to the charging station - which shocked me. So I really wouldn't want a car like that. And then I'd like to ask if he's considering putting it in the health care system. I can't imagine. That, gentlemen, sorry, I think we would all fail. Therefore, for me - I must agree with my previous speaker, through Madam President, that he has become angry because we are really taking up common sense here, and I do not like that. And I think that a good example was that we should start communicating about whether the honourable ladies and gentlemen will consider whether these decisions are correct and reflect today's times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u17	Thank you for your attention. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mr Adamec. Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, we're not really listening to each other today. I understand that there's a general resistance to the electrocution part of our colleagues, but the technology is moving forward a lot, let's face it. But the problem is somewhere else. The problem is the availability of energy and the cost of energy, and that's the fundamental problem that I'm criticizing. And by the way, when the terrible thing happened in Ukraine, the premieres of the entire 27 met and discussed whether or not we would continue in Green Deal as set up. And I'm gonna tell you something that's totally scary for me. There is no economic consideration at all. There's just this climate thing, it's the battalion that needs to be carried until the body is torn apart. Only four countries opposed the continuation of Green Deal. And I must say to our honor that we were one of them. They did. But the problem is that Europe is set like this, it just wants to have a clean climate at any cost or at almost any cost. And to say at this point that we can't technologically handle it, I think there's been a big mistake. We're not gonna make it economically. And I have a lot of numbers that scare me, and I'm afraid in ten years, we're all gonna be wondering how we let it get this far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u19	Thank you for your performance, too. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u20	I promise I'll be here for the last time today, because it'll be half a minute. But we listen to each other, colleague, through... [[To MP Adamco.]] Thank you for not talking about me... [[With a smile.]] I'm glad. But rather, I thought it had fallen on fertile soil, that you would take it to the gays and try to do so within the Presidency. Indeed, the targets are set so that individual sections or individual ministries are unable to meet those targets because they are against each other. And it would be nice if someone said, "Yes, we honor the battalion, but tell us where the path leads." And that would be the best thing to say and what would be an output, because at least everyone would know that this path is the right one, and no one will throw the pitchfork into it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u21	Thank you. That was Mrs Peštová's factual point. We are going back to the general debate in which Mr Kubíček is joined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, we've got four minutes left, and I've got about an hour. Never mind, I'll just take some points and we'll have fun. Firstly, through yours, I would like to thank the chairman of the Economic Committee because he speaks out of his mind. These problems will certainly not be in the development of individual ecological vehicles, because the standard talks about hydrogen, it talks about gas, it talks about electromobility, and it mainly talks about ammunition. We've gotten into some kind of individual transport forum here, and that's not what this is about. However, it's one of those standards that comes and more will come. That's gonna be the big problem. And for me, the real question is, where are we going to get those resources in all these commodities? The hydrogen engines for transport are only in development and, of course, we all know that hydrogen is just doing electricity, it's not that hydrogen is the power unit, because some imagine that you're going to pour it instead of gasoline and it's going to run. That's not how it works. The second thing is gas, but the gas isn't completely emission-free, but it meets the standard of 50 micrograms per kilometer, it meets, that's true. Gas stations - some cities have it, some don't have it. And it is once again an economic impact on ammunition, how to do it. And then it's an economic impact on the population, because someone will be driving those vehicles in urban transport - now I've heard an amazing idea - in Prague we will be driving free urban transport. Well, they can, it's probably not a big deal, but investing in other infrastructure will be reduced. Let's put it this way, that's how it works everywhere. Now, I want to see the mayors, there's a lot of them sitting in front of the citizens, and they're gonna say, "The ticket's not gonna be in 15, but it's gonna be in 30." That's gonna be great, 'cause then these people are gonna start some kind of traffic that's gonna work as an alternative, and it's definitely not just the wheels, so it's definitely gonna be the vehicles that are going to be on standard fillings - petrol, diesel and so on - and they're gonna get older. And as they get older, ecology will become more and more negative, more negative and more negative. I personally think that this will need to be dealt with very carefully in the Economic Committee. And I will propose this extension for 72 days in a detailed debate. I guess that's where we can go into the details, the details, because I understand that not everyone does it, and so on, and so on and so forth. I am, for example, a supporter of partial electromobility - and this concerns cities, and then it concerns HEV, PHEV drives and so on, that means connecting the electric battery with a normal internal combustion engine. And there are very interesting studies in the measurement of diesel emissions, which actually show that the original amount that came out was not entirely true and was distorted. So I wouldn't exactly kill the standard traffic. And as for other sources, we'll see. Because if you take it, when do we want to build another core? That's 2030. That's not going to meet the targets. And of course...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-004-027.u23	Ambassador, I'm afraid I have to interrupt you. It's 11:30 p.m., we've got fixed points - contracts at second reading. However, we interrupt you in the general debate, so as we return to this in plenary, you will be given the floor again. I'm glad it's interrupted, because I'm happy to get off and I haven't had a Vice President here, so let's get back to that point. Before we proceed to the negotiations, allow me to read the apologies that have arrived in recent times. Mr Vít Vomáčka apologizes for health reasons 16 and 17 June. Another apology is from Mr Kolovratník 16. 6. between 18 and 23.45, respectively until the end of the date of the hearing, due to a doctor's visit. Apologies to Mr. Letocha 16. 6. between 17 and midnight for family reasons and there is also an apology from Minister Blažek, from 11 o'clock to the end of the day. Well, that would be an apology. [[11.30 hours]] And let's move on to the fixed points. The first is point 80. This is about
