ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 12/2020 Coll., on the right to digital services and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 287/ - third reading Thank you that Vice-President of the Government for Digitization and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and also rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Robert králíček. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 287/4, which was delivered on 14 October 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was also delivered, namely as the House Press 287/5. And now I ask the Minister whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u2	Thank you for your word, I'll just be a short one. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat what has already been said at first and second reading. I'm just gonna take this for a little while. We have committed ourselves in the previous parliamentary term to fulfilling the citizens' right to digital service. This is a simple right or, respectively, the obligation of the State to supply quality services to most national agendas that can be digitized in a specified period, and this period is running short. Based on these needs, we have proposed as a government, and it was in the programming declaration, a kind of continuation of the government's previous initiative, and this is to ensure genuinely superior management for digitization, to obtain the necessary know-how on the part of the state, to strengthen the functioning of central registers and other important elements of our digitalisation, and indeed digital transformation, which even in the National Recovery Plan, are going to accelerate, just as other states are doing. On this basis, a proposal was made for the establishment of a Digital Information Agency next year, and the press, which we have today at the third reading, provides the basis for the creation of this agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u3	I also thank and open the debate in which the rapporteur of this press, Mr Robert králíček, entered first and foremost. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u4	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues. I confess that I originally wanted to talk long, I wanted to repeat here the things we talked about at first and second reading, but after yesterday's debate, when the government behaves very arrogantly against the opposition, and already with the second press, which concerns digitalization, which is essential, does not communicate with the opposition at all. We got the press to the House and had less than seven days to read it. We made a decision because we believe it's wrong to take advantage of the veto law, and we brought the press up to speed. However, we have been helpful and supported, even though you would probably have voted without us, which is true, some of us have supported the shortening of deadlines. I'm disgusted after reading on the Facebook of Mayors and Independents. After yesterday's debate, when I tried several times, really several times constructively and seriously explain the issues of the individuals we are talking about, I read the following, and I will read it to you, the Facebook pages of the Mayor and the Independent: "We could have cancelled today the obligation to have data boxes for non-business individuals, but the YES movement said no. The data box is a great tool for entrepreneurs who need to communicate with the state. But from January 1st, everyone will have to have it. This obligation was voted by the last House at the head of the YES. At the same time, 17 percent of citizens are still digitally illiterate. For these, the use of data boxes will be extremely difficult. We will continue to try to make an exception for non-business individuals by the end of the year. If we don't make it because of the YES veto, thank you, my dear seniors, the YES movement." [[9.10 hours]] For me, it's a lie, it's a lie, because yesterday we explained how it really is. I dare say that even misinformation, and this is a demonstration of the haunting of seniors and even increasing the tension already in society. And in the evening we could read tweets of some government officials to those rockets that fell in Poland. So when Mr. Rakušan here brings in the Disinformation Act, you, dear Stan, first sweep your doorstep before you bring in any misinformation law. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] So once again, for those of STAN who did not understand this: the data boxes that the YES movement brought yesterday do not concern every natural person - I do not know if you understand every word - but only natural persons, including seniors, who are already actively communicating with the state in an electronic way and proving themselves by electronic identity. It's not every senior. So please don't lie, don't disinformed and scare people. Now back in a calm tone to the agency. As far as the agency is concerned, as I mentioned, I will not repeat myself here again, but I would just like to say briefly: we approve the agency, or you approve the agency, where the director of the agency may not have a Master's degree or higher education compared to the NSA. So I dare say three names in this game. I think one of these people is gonna be headmaster because he doesn't need a Master's or a college degree, and it's a deal. So for the record, it's either Mr. Profant or Mr. Bláha or Mr. Vrba. If I'm wrong, the Minister has a beer with me. Non-alcoholic. You also approve an agency where the interior staff themselves are afraid of the transition, disagree with it and express it through their trade unions. Some interior workers cannot even be transferred to the Agency because they are paid by the European Union for a specific project, so it will be complicated. We approve of an agency where we do not know whether public procurement will be possible - we talked about it yesterday in the press about public procurement - which may also be a threat to the functioning of, for example, the Police of the Czech Republic. If the Procurement Act is not resolved and the state enterprise NAKIT is transferred, this may be a problem. We approve of an agency where it is missing - and now I may be wrong - either 120 or 180 people to be recruited. We know how hard it is to find IT experts in the state administration, and we approve an agency where the annual operation will be over CZK 250 million. So for me, it's a brief summary of what we approve here. I can certainly say that I will not support the law as a whole. And if we ever had a chance and were back in government, I would suggest that this agency be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u5	Thank you. I'll read an apology in the meantime. Mr Kobza apologizes from 16.30 to 20 o'clock for reasons of work, on the contrary, she cancels her apology from Mrs Romana Fischerová. First of all, Mr Petr Letocha and then Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I originally came only to withdraw my amendment, which I am doing. This is House document 1436, which we are essentially dealing with in the form of a government proposal that we discussed here yesterday. I will not be here today to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Králíček, I believe we will have enough room for this. Anyway, the fact is that yesterday we were brought up to discuss a law that could have been passed at first reading, and what we wrote on social networks, we stand by it and thank you for the promotion. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u7	Thank you. I believe that the rapporteur has noted the request for withdrawal and is also making a factual comment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u8	I would have responded to Mr Letocha. Yes, it could have been approved at first reading, if you hadn't been so arrogant, it would have been presented to us earlier on a committee or subcommittee, and there was some discussion about it. If there was a deal, we'd approve it at first reading. Homeland's been doing this since March 2021. [[time]] The fact that you're late is not our problem, it's your problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u9	Thank you for keeping time. We are now approaching Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would certainly also respond to what happened here yesterday regarding the establishment of data boxes for individuals. I would like to say that the proposal put forward by the government coalition, by extension, the Minister of the Interior, so he came up with the fact that data boxes for individuals will not be established, or canceled what the Ministry of the Interior should do for citizens. Therefore, there was reason to put an amendment, to proceed practically as was the case with eRecipe, to put in a transitional provision, and at the same time to do this for non-business legal entities, that is, for associations, for soccer associations from individual municipalities, or for housing cooperatives and others. So I also consider this very unfair, because yesterday, when the chairman of the STAN Group came to me, we made it clear. We said that shortening the time limits - practically that deadline has been reduced to one day, and today the Public Administration Committee will be sitting on it. And I am also very curious to see how the government coalition stands up to the proposed amendments. You know that there was also a public procurement law here yesterday, where a debate about the establishment of a Digital and Information Agency, which is practically linked to data boxes, has already been opened, because data boxes and other public administration systems will be transferred to the Digital and Information Agency. It's gonna be Czech POINTs, it's gonna be Basic Registers, it's gonna be other stuff. Surely all Members have received a number of letters from the trade union organization of the Ministry of the Interior, which does not agree with this. They do not agree with this because it has not been properly communicated to the present moment. That's my question to the Minister of Regional Development. According to their information, there is no document, no transformation document -- maybe he'll present it to me, so I ask -- which would somehow support the transition, how it will be done -- if I got at least that information, so if we could get information on the document, if it exists. Then I would like to mention and I think it is very important that the establishment of the Digital and Information Agency does not agree with the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. I have their position directly here, and I would also very much like the Minister for Regional Development to comment on this disagreeable position. [[9.20 hours]] We all know that in the area of ICT, who is most taken into account, the EU's ICT has also given a dissenting opinion on the establishment of a Digital Information Agency. It is, of course, clearly written from the ICT Union that, given all the facts that the ICT Union has put forward, it proposes that the draft law be rejected or returned to discussion, to a broad plenary of both the public administration and the professional public, in order to obtain maximum support, but also for those entities that will implement the follow-up. Yesterday, my colleague Klára Dostálová, who made it clear that, although Mr Bartoš had read the amendment yesterday in the Public Procurement Act, we can get into big trouble about this, because when a Digital Information Agency is created, he should also transfer to the NAKIT Digital Information Agency, which is not mentioned in the Act. Yesterday, she suggested that this law should return to second reading. This should be adapted legislatively, because it can really cause big problems. It is very on the verge and should be not only in the law on public procurement, but above all in this law, which we today approve at third reading. It sounded here and yesterday, it sounds today. It is very unusual that 200 employees will be transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Digital Information Agency. It will be people who are under service law, but the Digital Information Agency will recruit another 120 employees, and it is interesting that they will not be under service law and will be under the Labour Code. Even the President of the Digital Information Agency will be under the Labour Code. My colleague, Robert králíček, has already expressed his concerns and tips about who might possibly be the chairman of the Digital Information Agency. I would simply like to say that Mr Bartoš, the Minister for Regional Development, said that a transparent tender will be put in place. I'd like to ask him if the tender has already been drawn up, where it has been written, how is it transparent? Because I consider transparent management to be publicly available to all, not just to those who get on some site. I would like to ask if it is possible to write a tender or do acts of the Digital Information Agency if this law has not yet been approved, so can I get detailed information on this? I hope that it will not be as with data boxes, where the Vice Prime Minister has not expressed himself for digitization, even if the data boxes have citizens set up, in the past term, very much. And I find it strange that the Vice Prime Minister for Digitalization does not want to comment on such things as data boxes, which are the main tool for digitalization. There's a real threat that some people from the Ministry of the Interior won't go to the Digital Information Agency. If anyone even realizes that public administration systems affect all cities, municipalities, regions of the Czech Republic? I think it's really sewn with a hot needle and it can have a lot of problems because IT specialists really aren't. I have information that there may have been an anonymous survey at the Ministry of the Interior, where many people have said that they are not determined to transfer to the Digital Information Agency from the Ministry of the Interior. Indeed, IT specialists are today - there is demand for them everywhere, not only in the area of public administration, but also in the private sector, and I think communication with them should have been crucial, not to mention that those who are being paid from European money will not be able to go to the Digital Information Agency. I think this law should go back to second reading. The NAKIT stuff should be fixed there, so I would like to propose that this law be returned to the second reading and the committee hearing, so that all the things and the concerns that have been raised here can be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u11	Thank you. The proposal has been noted. However, with a factual remark, Mr Robert Stržínek is now registered, and then President Radim Fiala and then Mr Minister are given priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, setting up a Digital Agency or any other institution without the necessary staffing with people who are often opposed to their will and power to transfer from one employer to another is not a good start. I don't want to scare you, but trust me, it can get back at you. We have received repeatedly by e-mail a dissenting opinion from the trade union organization of the Ministry of the Interior. The unions disagree with the transformation process. They point out that there is extreme pressure on the creation of this agency, and the opinions of associations such as the Union's ICT, the Union of Industry and Transport, or the Union of Towns and Municipalities are also passed. They therefore propose that the draft law be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies only after the date of the meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister with the trade unions to be held next week and which was allegedly proposed by the Deputy Prime Minister himself at that time. Minister, take some well-meaning advice from me. First of all, get your future subordinates for your project. Explain to them the need for digitization, your view of this issue and the model you want to apply. The employee, whom you face against each other at the beginning, will never give you the same performance as the one who will identify with the project and, in the best case, get excited for it. Don't make the same mistake as your colleague, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, who has managed to piss off during a record-breaking short period and confront the vast majority of all employees of the Labour Office. Talk to people you want to work with, communicate with, and, if possible, in person. In this case, it's much better than digitally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u13	Thank you, I'm tolerance alone, I just think that this may not have been in fact anymore, it could have been in a standard speech. But with de facto now still - it is withdrawn, so now with priority rights the President and then the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a new office here. So when the ODS government with TOP 09, STAN and others said it was necessary to reduce agendas, reduce government administration, we have a state new office where at least 120 other employees will be recruited by this government. Of course, I have also heard in the gallows that it is the liking of this government for the loyalty of the pirát, that it is a sort of trade for the pirát, for Mr Profant, and that the pirát will remain loyal to this government. That's what they say in public. I think it's just not good that the emergence of new agendas, the emergence of new authorities, that even the things that go along with it, the rumors -- if they're slanders -- it's just not good. But what is troubling for me is that professional institutions do not agree with the creation of such an agency that the Ministry and the Minister were unable to explain it to professional guarantors, professional institutions such as the ICT Union, such as the Union of municipalities and cities - that is astonishing. [[9.30 hours]] This means for the SPD, allow me to propose a suspension of this item until 30 June 2023, and please be put to the vote. I'm also in favour of getting it back to second reading. And if the second reading, the return to second reading, is not being voted out, Madam President, I would like to vote on the suspension of this point by 30 June 2023, so that we give the Minister for Pirates the opportunity to convince the professional guarantors, professional institutions, actually the entire company that this agency has meaning, and perhaps make some adjustments in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u15	Thank you, so it's a conditional proposal, unless a repeat of second reading passes - I understand. And now with priority rights, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u16	I would react gradually, but I will try to be brief. A lot of things were said, and a lot of obvious truths or misinformation was also heard. I have noted one thing - the question of workers working on projects funded from the EU. Of course, they can be transferred, we are - even with the MMR and the Ministry of the Interior - completely aligned in concrete steps, because we have European programmes and subsidies in wine and we know how they are designed. At this point, it concerns about three people out of the total, if their agenda ends, it would be possible to work with it in September 2023 at a later date, but everything else should be okay and moved earlier. I had a question for the tender, so I'm glad I'm gonna win this soft beer. We have published the criteria, and it is a bit unusual when there is a lot of disinformation about the agency on the one hand, and yet there are people from the professional world who would like to sign up for the tender. So far, we have only advertised it on LinkedIn, where most IT management professionals and modern technologies are moving. Regarding the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic - I know that this was some initiative that Mrs Vladyková spoke about, but we replied to Mr Lukl, who was signed under this letter, that it is based on inaccurate information. We filled him in, and I believe all the presidents of the MPs got it. It seems a little strange to me, because the overhead agenda is not entirely connected with any delegated action at the moment, in the sense that we are considering it, but it would also be a little strange if, for example, we in the government's position were to discuss how to organise the regional leadership, the administration of the IT system and the regional digitalisation. However, we have answered this question. With regard to the debate with trade unions and with employees, I will just stress this: of all the people involved in this transformation, and it is therefore primarily the question of individual directors and representatives of the departments and trade unions at the Ministry of the Interior, I had a very beneficial meeting, once it was three hours, the second time about so. At the first meeting was attended by Minister Rakušan, on the other by his people on behalf, even for example MP Kolařík. And we're taking these things away, and I've also responded to the trade unionists' letters, which I think were already heading out of the area of Czech digitization and restructuring of the proceedings, when I was referred to meeting representatives of KSkovo and other trade unions. Speaking of which, I still feel like the Labour Code is some sort of disgraceful thing, and the Service Act is kind of like a mandatorial at a lot of resorts. Of course, people are mixed according to the type of performance and content of their work. Some are under service law, some are under the classic code of work at the agency, depending on the type of things these people are going to do, so it's some kind of mix. It's not like that. Otherwise with unionists - term 21. 11. not confirmed by the union. I've already called for a meeting, but I don't think it's a thing that doesn't come out of the way of the staff. About project documentation: I am a person living significantly in the digital world, although sometimes you can see that I also have these bills here for sure in printed form. The project documentation has hundreds and thousands of pages, including transformation matrixes, including work. We worked very hard on this project for about 8\ months, about 80 people participated in it. With regard to people working in IT - I say it again, I repeated it yesterday: I think that education in itself is the value that the title is a matter of "nice to have," a thing that is definitely required in the profession of a doctor, a type of lawyer, a number of teaching professions and others, but we are really asking here about the skills of project management, transformation management, carrying that vision. And just one more thing, it keeps ringing around. The director of the agency is no employee of Ivan Bartoš, the agency is no bypass of the office of Ivan Bartoš or something I would like from the point of view that the need is created (?) some structure. As in the Czech Republic, the SAOKIB, who is responsible for cyber security, which is a cross-cutting issue, which is, for example, the National Sports Agency, which is mentioned - sport is a godly activity, important for young people, for old people, for education, but it is not a cross-cutting topic for public administration. So the real role of the agency should be, as described in the draft law, namely coordination, taking control of the core of Czech digitalization, acceleration and provision of expert know-how. And the last thing: when I look at the overall budget of Czech digitalization in every year, which, even in the involvement of the National Recovery Plan, is somewhere around 20 billion, so the efficiency of public procurement, the non-repeating of various e-shops on a motorway stamp and the like, is a complete basis for saving the funds. The net costs of the DIA for 2023 are 150 million extra. The money that is in total costs is the money that is currently being paid for the operation, maintenance and development of central systems that are being transferred under it, so it is the money that exists in the budget that has long been counted in the chapter, only then by means of a delimitation are being transferred under the administration of the Agency to its budget. That's probably all for me briefly, I can still react if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u17	Thank you. In fact, we have one electronic one, namely Mr Patrik Nacher, and then President Radim Fiala made a statement from the point of view. You prefer? Okay, now that you two have a deal. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u18	Madam President, I have misled you, albeit in good intentions, because I have asked you to allow my procedural proposal to vote on this after the vote to be put back to second reading, but under the Rules of Procedure Act, I have realised that the procedural proposal should be put to the vote immediately, so I would ask you to have my procedural proposal to suspend negotiations on this point by 30 June 2023 under the Rules of Procedure Act put to the vote immediately. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u19	The motion was made, thank you. It just might have been considered a conditional proposal, which is why I made sure, but if you want it this way, I'll go on. I've heard requests for check-out, so I'm gonna have you all checked out. Please log in with your ID cards again. And I'm going to call my colleagues and my colleagues into the hall, with the right priority to the proposal... with the right priority, you can make a counterproposal, if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u20	I would like to put forward a counter-proposal for this interruption proposal, because I think that the proposal is purely obstructive, and there have been quite significant reasons why we need digitalisation urgently, so I would like to put forward a counter-proposal to interrupt the discussion of this point for only 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u21	Thank you, that was counterproposal. And since the numbers are coming up in this room, we will vote classically on the counterproposal of Jakub Michálek for 10 minutes and then on the first motion to interrupt by 30. 6. 2023. So, first of all, I'm voting on a counterproposal for 10 minutes. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 40 vote, 173 Members and Members were enrolled, for 1, against 143. So this proposal was not accepted. [[9.40 hours]] And now we will proceed to the motion by the President of the SPD Parliamentary Club Radim Fiala to interrupt until 30. 6. 2023. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of this interruption? Who's against it? The number 41 vote was 175 votes, for 83, against 89. This proposal was also rejected. He still wants the rapporteur to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u22	I just want a short time. I find it very strange when Mr. Michálek here gestures and talks about obstructive proposals, and then he doesn't even support his own proposal, so that's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u23	I thought it would be for the vote. We must return to factual remarks as to how the speakers are duly registered. There is a duly signed Mr Nacher, who wants to respond to the debate. Please, it's your time. We've dealt with all the procedural proposals. [[One of the MPs reported in.]] Again? No, that's not possible, there's another logged in with actual, it's not possible, only one logged in. If you want to get off, you have two minutes, you can respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u24	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to actually speak to the Minister's speech, where I saw two basic things that I put into my classic double standard, and how the creation of this agency goes hand in hand with the fact that you here criticized the creation of a sports agency in the past period, I was really interested. In general, the creation of a new agency, which is responsible for something that can be dealt with in a different way, and not that there will be some positions for somebody again. In fact, everyone on the air will see who will be the head of the agency and if there is any connection to the Pirate Party. And the second double standard is what you've been talking about in the last six months in the context of the energy crisis, that's that people are supposed to humble themselves, that they should be saving themselves, how they should be dressed at home and so on, and here I am observing one decision after another, when, on the contrary, the number of different officials, politicians, political representatives is growing. It's a lot connected to the Pirate Party, despite your number of Members here, so it goes against it. There will be a new agency, new employees, new demands on the state budget. So I would really like to know how it goes hand in hand with this symbol for those people, that it's to be saved, that you're going to cut, that we're going to be in the draft state budget next year, that the number of employees in the public sector is growing by 8,000. And you guys were beating my head off in all the TV debates when it happened in the last election season. These are two basic points, two basic double standards that you have. You're tougher on the others, and you're benevolent to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u25	Thank you for keeping time. For the record, Mr Volný Member, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Michálek, and then Mr Minister with priority rights, is now in fact registered. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, hello, I would like to supplement my colleague Patrik Nacher with a third question on a double standard, and I am really interested. I'm not an IT expert, which is why I'm not going to get involved in material matters, but why must there be a university education for the Director of the Sports Agency, and why, in my opinion, an erudical higher position, for the Director of the Digital Agency, who will be managing engineers, perhaps very capable people, why isn't it required to do so? Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u27	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u28	Allow me to respond to the Minister for Regional Development on a transparent tender. So let's see how it really is. So on October 13th, the Minister for Regional Development said that he would put out a transparent tender. He himself admitted in his reply that this tender is written on some LinkedIn where they will be able to sign up, or only some, not all, have access to it - it is not publicly available somewhere. That's the truth. Can we call for a tender when the Digital Information Agency is not yet approved? That's my question. Second question: is the transparent tender announced on 11 November and the deadline for submission is 22 November? It's transparent, is it enough time? Is it transparent that the interviews will take place from November 20th? Is it transparent that he won't "don't open" on the envelope, which means that whoever gives it up will open this envelope right away? Is that transparent? Well, there's no way that's transparent, and it's against everything. And I am amazed that the Minister for Regional Development and the Minister for Digitalisation are presenting such a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u29	Thank you. And now Jakub Michálek, President of the Pirates Membership Club, is in fact signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u30	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to thank the Vice Prime Minister for so patiently answering the opposition's questions. I also wanted to ask my colleagues to listen better, because the Vice Prime Minister talked about the titles last time, he talked about them today and more questions about the same area are falling again. Please, colleagues, if you are not moving in the area of computer science, ask someone who is in the area of computer science - there are many great informatics who do not have a degree in official studies. Ask the founders of big companies, like Facebook. So the headmaster of Facebook couldn't log in? No, really find out about the computer science area before you go into such matters. Of course, the Minister is meeting with workers, experts, and it has been many months since we informed the Government's programming statement and the coalition agreement that we want to establish a central authority to finally move in this state of digitization. And you can't be serious because unionists are going to write a question that they don't agree that everything is probably sunny, that digitalization works in this country, so it's going to stop. I think digitalization, if anything, should speed up. It's a fundamental problem that it's dragging around like this. I think that we should not operate here in the Chamber of Deputies in any of the rumors that have been said by some of our colleagues, and I am glad that they, too, have called it slander, which they may have heard in some toilet somewhere. We need performance to lead the digitization agency by a man who is a manager who manages a large organization and who will supply and conduct the digital transformation according to the government's programming statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u31	Thank you. However, I must say that six further factual points have now been made. So you must know in what order you are - Mrs Ožanová, Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Bžoch, Mr Volný, Mrs Nacher and Mrs Peštová signed up. Please, Madame, you are the first to be logged in with your facts. Can you respond, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u32	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I think I am the first to react to the fact that I am responding to the first part of my colleague Michálek's speech. You know, for me, a management position and a professional position is really different. A really good IT guy's gonna be a great manager? I think that we should distinguish these things a little bit, and that is why it would be appropriate for university education to be in that position. Otherwise, if you do not believe this, initiate a change in the catalogue of official work! Please, there's a need for a college education for any stupidity. I'll say it with exaggeration - maybe even a secretary has to have a college degree at the office, but the director of the agency doesn't have to? I really don't understand. A specialist, an I.T., yes, he can be an expert - and that among those experts is not a few college-educated people who are still great managers? Indeed, I believe that this disharmony compared to, for example, a sports agency - I am sorry, especially in sports, I can imagine that there will be no higher education, but there should be digitalisation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Just a statement for Mr. still awaiting the Vice Prime Minister: either he can sign up with a factual or with a preferential right to still wait, it is his decision to make. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch is now in the process of signing up, Mr Jan Volný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Michálek, through Madam President, when you talk about listening to each other, listen to me too. We were here, or my colleagues, like the sports agency here, and they were putting these two things straight. And if we have to have a college education with a sports agency, and not with a sports agency like that, we've given it as examples. Because when I take a sports agency, such as Pavel Nedvěd - I'm not a football fan at all - he worked as a manager in Juventus. And this guy, who's very famous and obviously very experienced, can't go to the agency because he doesn't have a college degree. But we have prepared amendments, and we will be happy if you support them with the NSA, so that college education doesn't have to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u35	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Volný, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I don't want to mess with you, so I'm not checking in, but my colleague Bžoch actually said what I wanted. I wanted to give other examples. Sebastian Coe was the president or head of European athletics and there were many presidents of the global Olympic Committees who were also not educated in college. Mr. Michálek, you fight well for Mr. Profant, but always make up some relevant indicators and information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u37	I'm asking too much to address you through the authorities. And now, Mr Patrik Nacher, and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be the last to prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u38	Thank you. I would also like to respond to my colleague Michálek. He probably didn't learn from the Prague council that his colleague Hřib would always perform there and there were ten other entries. He thanked the Minister for answering, so I'll join you. I'd like to thank the Minister for sitting here at all and presenting his proposal, that's a big success, since it's like this, let's just say thank you like that. And one more reaction, Mr colleague, through the Vice-President: well, perhaps you answer, that is possible, so far, the Minister has not answered my questions - when it comes to his turn, I suppose, yes, thank you. But you don't explain it because those things are still in the air, and maybe that college education is just one of them. But the other things I've been talking about here haven't been explained yet. The most fundamental question is where the 180 degree change in your view of the new institutions arose, the emergence of new institutions, where you here in the last parliamentary term have severely criticised the sports agency, which also had clear tasks, that this is the emergence of something new and that this is unnecessary. And where did that 180-degree change come from, that suddenly you're defending something that could be done differently, what experts tell you won't work? You're just relativizing it here that it's just a union protest, and I, what I've noticed, are skeptical about it, too. So where did the change come from, that suddenly you don't mind a new organ with new needs, a new institution? And all of a sudden, it's okay. And I understand where the change is: you were opposed before, now you're in government, and you just need to create new institutions. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u39	Thank you for keeping time. I will ask Mrs Berenika Peštová, who is applied for, and will prepare the Member - again with a factual, further factual - Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. All I'm saying is that Mr. Vice Prime Minister is still waiting. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u40	Thank you for the floor. I already think he will answer Mr Nacher. The Member has learned his lesson and has left so that no further factual remarks can be made. But in any case, I wanted to say something else: if something doesn't suit us, we'll adjust it to suit ourselves. That means, we had a service bill, we adjusted it so we could get the right people. Now we have another law, we're gonna adjust it so that we can re-establish the people we need. And once someone here - I don't question people who don't have a college degree at all, I've really met a lot of people who are well-founded, they have a much bigger move on the goal, they can - but in any case, there's some hierarchy that says something. Well, then, we're gonna cancel college, because it's actually, if I feel like I don't need it, we're gonna cancel it, right? It doesn't really matter if I have college! That's probably why we're studying that by getting a college education, we're moving on with our lives, so I can't say I don't need college. Yeah, and if I don't need it, I can't do a job where that college education should just be. That's all. I mean, if we want to fix something so we can put our people in there, I understand, but let's just put it straight here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u41	Thank you for keeping time. There is still a factual comment from Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would very much like the Minister for Regional Development to comment on this announced tender. He may report to the petitioner, he has a preferential right, but the factual priority is, so I would ask you to give us the relevant information, because, as I said here, there is no transparent tender, to announce him for so few days, and there are specific indicators of the type that interviews will take place before the deadline and so on. So this is about the tender, which, in my opinion, is very unusual. The question is whether it is even possible to call a tender when the Digital Information Agency has not yet been approved by this House, including the Senate. And I would like to respond to Mr Michálek through Madam President, who is therefore pledging that some trade unionists at the Ministry of the Interior do not agree with this. The employees disagree, I think the communication with them should have been, but what is worse, the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic does not agree! Please, I have the opinion here of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, disagree with the establishment of a Digital Information Agency! Do you realize that this affects all cities of municipalities and regions? I think that this position is crucial and should be positive. At the same time, there is a very negative position of the ICT Union headed by Mr Zajíček. It is also very negative and it also says - so let us return it to second reading, let us correct all these things, even when it comes to public procurement, and let us not sew something with a hot needle in a hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u43	Thank you - I'm just asking, you can be immersed in it very much, but sometimes it's really too loud. What I would say is that the Minister has been reporting all along, but with priority rights. We still have a number of factual points here, so unfortunately, the questions have not yet been answered. Mr Ivo Vondrák is now reporting with the facts and then Mr Karel Rais, also with the facts, and I will pass on the proceedings of the meeting. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u44	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting of the school committee today, we have agreed that the chairman of this agency must have a minimum master's degree, not just a university but a master's degree. I've heard from Mr. Michálek - who isn't here, so I'm not calling him - that there are a lot of informatics who don't have a college degree like Zuckerberg, like Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, and so on. Please, when Mr. Profant can do what Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs, can do, I'm happy to support him. But what I'd like to say is that these people... [[Laughter, applause in the hall.]] ... these people went into business with their own resources, not with public funds, which is why I say, if we have rules that require college education - and I am in favour of it being college, I do not insist that it must be a master's - so please, let's follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u45	Thank you. We have one more factual point, but Mr Rais is still registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Greetings, colleagues, colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u46	Have a good day. I consider the debate here about whether a person who leads 200 people should have a degree to be absurd, because being a good programmer doesn't mean he's a good manager at all. If anyone's a good builder, it doesn't mean he'll be a good manager. That's why there are all these different superstructure courses that, of course, assume college at least on that basis, that's what it means on the computer science. As has already been said here, basically, we are constantly pushing down the standards of some of the responsibilities of people who are supposed to be managing institutions, see the various accreditation bodies that anybody can do today. So he was very clear, so it's pointless to have universities through computer science, and of course it's stupid. So it is necessary for a manager who drives 200, 300 people, and doesn't have to know everything from computer science, but he should be a good manager, and for that there are institutions that have basically been specialized for a hundred years, or at least forty, fifty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with the de facto President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u48	Thank you. I have now learned from some of the speeches here about your tender, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to the head of the agency, when the tender took place only at Citylink, that the tender wasn't basically public, and I think there are other problems, as we have heard, that even before it was finished, interviews with some candidates and other things are already starting. [[correctly LinkedInu]] Especially with the pirát, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I'm asking: you're a model of anti-corruption and a pattern of virtue, so I'm calling all these State Reconstructions, Watchdogs, where are they? Where are the different embassies holding a protective hand over us so we don't commit any corruption negotiations, if we have public tender procedures, if they're transparent enough? [[The speaker will be silent.]] ticho. You hear that, too? Where are they? [[Laughs in the hall.]] Where are they? [[Members applaud.]] So, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I think there's still time for you to think this through so that you can really do it transparently, anti-corruptionly, publicly. If so, ask your nonprofit organizations with a political program how to do it properly to make it transparent. And for that reason, to give you the time, I'm asking for a 30-minute recess for a meeting between your club and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u49	Yes, I hereby declare a break within 10.34 hours, i.e. a period of 30 minutes at the request of two member clubs. I am interrupting this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u50	Allow me to continue after a half-hour break, and before we get to the others who are enrolled in the general debate, I will read one apology, namely, Mr Lacina from 10.30 to 13.30 for work reasons. I have an application with priority rights from Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, but I don't see him here, so I suppose we can move on to the duly registered Mrs. Klára Dostálová. [[When the MP comes to the microphone, Mr. Vice Prime Minister comes running.]] Well, we've already got Mr. Vice Prime Minister here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u51	Thank you so much for the word, hello. I will really be very quick, but since I didn't fit my contribution under de facto, I had to choose a proper application. She was good for something, because me and the Minister had some things straightened out in the hallway, because I would have called for us all to actually support the digitalisation. I can't imagine anyone raising their hand here for not supporting digitalisation. But given the problems that of course occur here, I would also vote all ten to return it to second reading and complete all the things that are needed. But the Minister assured me in the hallway that precisely because of the in-house amendment to the DIA is tabled, and that is the right way to go. It's wrong through the Public Procurement Act, it's right to entrust the DIA with the performance of the in-house for specific activities, that's right, here I'd like to say it on the microphone, and thank the Minister for explaining it to me in the hallway. But my contribution concerns something completely different. I'm not sure - I just happened to open the IROP challenges where I looked at eGovernment, and, Minister, is it that the DIA is supposed to be the central body of the state administration? If it is a central government authority, then you will have to change the IROP document, because in the IROP document and the challenge that ends 31. 8. 2023, between potential beneficiaries are only the organisational component of the State, the state contribution organisation, state organisation or state enterprise, no central government body. Just pointing out that this is not a 14-day run, there is really a need to convene a monitoring committee, which has to be approved, then ask the European Commission to approve the IROP programme document and all related documents. For this reason too, because there are billions of crowns involved, and I think it would really be very undesirable for us to approve an organization here, which, in turn, is now excluded from the possibility of drawing European funds, so that we can really agree that it may come back, that all the deadlines will really be reduced to the maximum, but we will try to work some of these things out so that it actually works out what it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u52	Yes, thank you. Now, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, if his application is valid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u53	I wanted to respond to several outputs - I don't want to stir up emotions or open a debate on the topic of MPSV, what classification for the pursuit of which profession it is necessary to have and whether it corresponds to a twenty-year-old degree in some field requirements, even in the same field. Now I would respond to some of the things that have been said here by Patrik Nacher, for example. I think that comparison, and I've already said that - I'm always trying to be practical and emotionless - so when I look at my historical performances at the National Sports Agency and how it was shaped by who would be in charge of it, and I think that a lot of things were quite tender in the creation of the National Sports Agency, so we were involved in the preparation, we tried to bring in the elements of transparency, and I feel a little bit... I don't know if anyone has any obsession with my colleague Profant, his name has been spoken about four times - so I don't know at all that he would be interested in applying for such a position, even given the competences required for future bosses who are there, so I don't think he's fulfilling them - the leadership of the organization, the managerial skills of this class. So please, let's not drop any balloons here. It's not Ivan Bartoš's organization. Those demands aren't tailored to someone. The need for a Digital Information Agency is obvious. On the question of the mix under the Labour Code or in the Civil Service Code - when we look at the structure of individual ministries, it is really based on the performance of the activity that this person is doing there. A lot of ministries, including the Ministry of Regional Development, have some employees in the Civil Service, some under the Labour Code. I don't think it's standard. With regard to the selection procedure - yes, as it is written, it can be written again in connection with the Labour Code, we do nothing that is not standard. Otherwise, the network is called LinkedIn, it's a network used by a huge number of professionals in the field, and, of course, information on the selection process is spreading. There's no opening of envelopes, it's not a contract. Of course, with the incoming ones, and we already have the candidates logged in, we will work, there will be a commission that will conduct individual interviews, and if necessary, of course we can go into a two-way tender, which may also create the possibility of signing up in the second round. I think that the synergy of this law, but also the vision, the purpose of the agency and the public space, in my opinion, may also resonate because of some speeches. I don't think anyone knows what it is or hasn't noticed exactly that they're going to be in the next semester or until 1. 4. develop additional positions in relation to the Agency. [[10.40 hours]] What I think is important to mention is that it almost sounds like some kind of education is some sort of handicap at some point or that it would be a condition that the agency's head will not have a university education. Of course, university education in the field is a good thing, in the current field together with others it is always a plus, only it often becomes limited, because professionals who do for 20 years in the field, and it's not IT - it's not a programmer that programes, it's supposed to be a boss, adequate for example with their knowledge and managerial skills, like in the case of núkib. With regard to costs, and I have said this several times, given the cost of Czech digitalisation, which is in the order of lower tens of billions per year, the actual performance of the agency, when part will also be paid under the National Recovery Plan, especially the competence centres, what the National Recovery Plan allows, is indeed a broken load that saves money. And people wonder how those services will be delivered, whether they will be on time, whether they will have uniform design. And when we were having fun here, and it was said here by President Fiala about the person who spoke to the agency. We have negotiated from the ICT Union, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, with academic communities, McKinsey, Aspen, the Czech Digital Team, all these organizations have spoken about this. The EU's ICT is, without a doubt, an important partner of a number of things, specific solutions, often consulting on matters, and we have worked together as all the gangs in the last parliamentary term. The right of a citizen to a digital service, BankID - but please, let us not draw three or four comments on the fact that this is some opinion of a general professional public. There were a number of actors during the DIA negotiations to formulate those objectives. I believe that you also have a letter today that landed in my e-mail box, which concerns the recommendations and what needs to be taken care of when implementing this complex project. There's a lot of it. I will be happy to communicate with the creation of the Agency. Please, I wouldn't compare it with the National Sports Agency for two more reasons. Sport is important, it should interfere with all aspects of human life, but are not its consumers of the ministry, citizens through shared services. It really is not an umbrell or a cross-cutting topic that all other ministries or draw on his services are dealing with, in this it is different. At the same time, I did not notice any over-the-frame roles of the National Sports Agency, whether it was in the creation of some policies, work on strategy and implementation of the digital Czech strategy. In its nature, the National Sports Agency was an organisation and is still an organisation that should distribute, transparently and well, money that is intended to promote sport in the Czech Republic, but does not create in itself, not a production body. In this case, her experts do not come to consult the architecture of some sort of sport solution, syllabus, curriculum that may be related to some sport education. It's just that it's in the name of the agency - I was a little warned that this parallel was going to be created there. In the world, it's just the standard that it's an agenda - an agency, it doesn't tie to the actual status, which in this case is the USU (?), and all the things that are mentioned here in the context, and that's what you've been dealing with, that's what you've been addressing in some way. As I'm saying, the project has long-term documentation divided into about six and then some subgroups, let it be HR, that's personnel, let it be technical solutions, transfer systems. I was talking to the employees at the Ministry of the Interior, who were involved, about the framework contracts, about the contracts they have, about employee benefits, so that the transfer one to one for the groups that would be transferred in connection with the administration of the registry and architecture, so it was lossless. I think that each of those streams or each of those areas was focused on some specific part of the project. It's not a hooray event, it's eight months of work. And, of course, the last thing in the sense that Mrs Dostálová spoke about: yes, we are counting on it once the DIA has an ambition to be a beneficiary of European money and subsidies from the IROP programmes, it is necessary to go the way of the change, which is what we are counting on. It also has a schedule, but as they say, first things first. In addition to the fact that I can actually write a tender, even if the Agency is not yet established, and it is happening, normally under the Labour Code, selection procedures are created, companies are hiring places for the future, so in this matter I would really like to proceed that first it will be an agency, then it will be created and then we will deal with these things, but we are trying to remember everything. And I have to say that the many things that have been said here, that I should not be criticized, are, of course, inspiring - to look at something from another point of view, perhaps, and I welcome them, in essence, because it also assures me that we have not forgotten something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u54	Thank you. Your contribution has raised several factual points. First, Mrs Ožanová, then I would ask that Mr Volný and then Mr Nacher be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In the meantime, I looked at the website of the Ministry of Regional Development and found that there was no mention of the selection procedure that Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková mentioned. Dear Minister, I think it would be appropriate, you have a career bookmark, you have external cooperation there - you know, it is standard in this field that it will be published on the Ministry's website and so on. I don't really consider the way you chose to be transparent. I believe that you should extend the deadline for the selection procedure and publish the standard means, as is common in this area, for example by graciously putting it at least on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development, where I did not actually find it. I think that would remove at least a little doubt about the transparency of such a selection procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u56	Thank you. Another one, in fact, is Mr Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not gonna be patronizing the answer from the Minister of Higher Education anymore. Basically, I agree with him that high school students are capable, skilled, and able to do the job of head of the IT agency, but he would be able to run a sports agency as well, Mr. Secretary. [[10.50 hours]] And I'm a little sorry that in that case, it didn't bother you that there was a pretty hard signpost like this. Regardless of the fact that the former, now former head of the sports agency, has stated as the main reason for his departure that he will not meet this criterion in the upcoming law. So it didn't bother you there and here you're arguing - maybe fine, I'm not saying that high school kids aren't top-class and handy, but you didn't mind. That's Patrik's double standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u58	Thank you, and another registered with the facts is Mr Růžička. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am happy that you are the Minister for Regional Development. I'm so happy that you're not demoralizing a force resort like the army, because what you said here, I'm going to bring you into the army's terms. You're saying that an IT specialist doesn't need a college education. In the army, we have a squad leader and a platoon commander, where we need to have a college education. And what you said here, I'll show you. We don't need an educated soldier, it'll be enough for us if that soldier has muscles, can shoot and graduate high school, so we can put him in command of the unit, brigade commander -- totally great. If I take it to the fire department, Minister, please, the squad leader at the fire department needs a college education and he's got, I don't know, six people. Then wake up, maybe less something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u60	Thank you. And the next person who is logged in is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. This is the last person to be logged in with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u61	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I certainly thank you for the performance of Zuzca Ožanová, who has made it clear here that the tender is not transparent, is not on the website of the Ministry for Regional Development. I think who you are in the position of mayor, captains and so on, you know so well that first something has to be approved, and then you can write a tender. The selection procedure is currently held for ten days. I again point out that, as we can see, the interviews will take place before the selection procedure is completed. In any case, I am not satisfied with the answers of the Minister for Regional Development. I have to say that I had a question here if he could show me the transformation document, because the way I have the opportunity to talk to the union of the Ministry of the Interior, they've been demanding it for weeks, if not months, and that document doesn't exist. It should actually be a phase of the employee transition. At the same time, it must be noted that if more than a hundred employees are transferred to another organizational body, this must be discussed with the trade unions if it is more than a hundred employees. To the present moment, it is a so-called delimation, it has not been done until now either. So I would really like to - because we had the opportunity to talk about the break with the Minister for Regional Development, he told us that there is an amendment that the transition of NAKIT to the DIA is in today's amendment - and I would like to see if the Minister could prove it to us in some way, because we have not found such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u62	Thank you, and with priority rights, Mr. Vice Prime Minister is reporting. Then another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u63	I just want to respond. The origin of the DIA, if you look at the text of the law, doesn't solve anything about the role of NAKIT. NAKIT, if it is done with it - and it is planned in the future - even moving under the DIA, it is up to the government to decide, it is a resolution that is approved by the government. I was here a moment ago reacting to Mrs Dostálová, that some things can be done in parallel, some things assume that it is filled with A, then it is filled with B. Therefore, this proposal in itself is a step forward to another and it is phased, even those things concerning the Ministry, individual ministries or individual systems, have their stages. Every system that will be transferred has a timeline - who manages it, how it is made available, because it is addressed from the point of view of security, the security services of the state, which, of course, are interested in protecting those systems. These are all aspects of the project. I've seen the transformation matrix, it's in the documentation in the appropriate sections. It's definitely available to executives at the Ministry of the Interior. I look forward to meeting with the spokesperson or head of the department, who actually addressed the three letters to the Members to whom I replied, both to the unions, but also to the Members, you also put them in your mailbox. And this legislation, which is here, this bill, does not address any movement of NAKIT or its ties. If this were to happen to the fourth month of next year, to the sixth month, this would not change the emergence of a Digital Information Agency. These are things that are conventional and are not the subject of this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u64	Thank you. And we have a factual point here, Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u65	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would like to ask, on what basis did you put out a tender when the law is not yet in force? That's the first question, because of course everything has some sort of convention. There has to be a law in force so that we can put out a tender, because de facto the place doesn't exist. That's one thing. Second thing. It got to me - and either you disprove it or you confirm - that you already have a website for this agenda. That means what were they paid for when the law doesn't exist? And if that's true, then it should actually be of interest to the NKÚ, because the NKÚ is constantly chasing someone for doing something and not doing it because they didn't have any support in the law. So that's two things I'd like to know that I'd like an answer to. That means if you don't have a law on how you could put out a tender, and then if you've invested something, on what basis you've invested if it's confirmed that it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u66	Thank you. As there is no further factual fact, I am now asking Mr Nacher, who is in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u67	Vice-President, members of the government, thank you. I've been taking notes, I'll try to sum it up in some way, and then I'll have a draft accompanying resolution, maybe it'll help us. First of all. We're talking about the professional public here, and as we've learned, the ICT Union is against it. We talk about subsidiarity in politics, the Union of Towns and Municipalities is against it. The Home Office staff doesn't agree with that either. You for a long time - now I don't mean the pirát directly, but I mean all those entities that support it today - you're against the emergence of new institutions, and here you are in favour of creating a new institution. At the same time, you're saying that everything is supposed to be transparent, and as my colleagues have already said, I'm not going to repeat it, there's a tender for something that the law isn't yet for. What if he doesn't pass? What if the Senate pays you back, the president doesn't sign? You guys are gonna be here... since when is this principal gonna be here? How's this gonna work? I mean, you don't know how, since when, how it's gonna work, you have a non-discriminatory tender for something that's just under discussion here. You tell people that it's to be saved, that they're to be humbled, and they see a new institution, a new entity that carries new demands, finance, functions, and so on. I'm not gonna argue about the absolute, absolute cost in the state budget, but the symbolism is important there, too. So everything is actually completely, completely backwards. Experts don't want it, the Union of Towns and Communities doesn't want it, you never wanted it, institutions new - now I don't mean you, Minister, but general government parties - now you're going to vote for it here. [[11.00 hours]] But obviously, because you don't listen to it, neither to the opposition, nor to the experts, so I at least, in order to mitigate some things, will allow me to load a accompanying resolution in case it passes, and that sounds like the Chamber of Deputies is ordering the Ministry of Regional Development to issue a transparent tender to the Director or Director of the DIA, which will be accessible to all applicants, which is what we are referring to in all channels. I'd start on the MMR website, and it'll be enough time to log in. And then I have two options - at least 60 days, if you think it's too long, not to me, at least 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u68	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, is registered with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u69	Thank you. It's a good thing I still made it to the real thing. I'd like to apologize for saying it wrong. I would like to ask the Minister of Regional Development to show me that today we will approve an amendment that will allow NAKITA under the DIA that he will be able to enter in-house that he will be authorised in-house to award contracts to the Ministry of the Interior. So if you would show me such an amendment, because we did not find any such amendment there. And it would be a really big problem, which is why we're calling again for this, let's go back to second reading, and let's figure it out to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u70	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u71	I would just like to respond - please, let us not mix the Labour Code and the Service Law. The selection procedure, which has so far been published on LinkedIn, and I expect it to continue to spread, has in its text that it is conditional. He assumes that the establishment of the agency will be linked to the House's resolution and subsequently to the Senate's registration. Otherwise, the question of money: there we have the government's resolution of course the cost of the transformation project, and I completely cannot imagine that the creation of an agency or anything would only begin when the law is valid and approved. I think that we are not breaking out of nowhere and, of course, we have the money that we are drawing on the transformation project of Czech digitalization, because this is also in the government's programming statement. There are no DIA sites. I'm always impressed when there's a saying around the counter, "I heard" and "there's a rumor," and it's pre-cooked. I am willing to respond to specific things that have a specific basis. It's hard to fight or it's hard to explain things "one lady said," it's hard to defend something that's not by its nature, because only arguments are generated why it should be. I have one more thing to do. The head of the agency is not an employee of the Ministry of Regional Development. I don't reserve a job, I can't put ads on the Office of the Government or the Ministry of Regional Development. I think it's important to say that it's still tied up here, the agency as such is going to have an adequate position for the SACUBI. If the agency then already exists, it leads its own HR, of course the other positions will already be occupied by the agency on its website. At this point, well ahead of time, because we are dealing with the individual steps that make it - and it will be - a transparent process, we will be familiar with the candidates, chosen by the director in a position that does not yet exist, because the law is not approved, and according to the Labour Code this is a process that is simply normal, there are no rules for the effective execution of the selection procedure. And that is all - the question of NAKIT is not part of this legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u72	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová is reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u73	Dear Minister, no legislation prohibits you from informing you on the Ministry's website of such a tender, regardless of the fact that it is not a service place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u74	Thank you. Since there is no other factual - do I see factual? In a common debate. Please, Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u75	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would just like to say that by setting up a Digital Information Agency, we are setting up a central government body. Does it seem normal to you that such a tender for the Director should be on LinkedIn? Why couldn't it be, if you say so, not at the Ministry of Regional Development, so why couldn't it be at the Office of the Government? After all, the tender you issued on November 11 clearly states that you will bring the most suitable candidate to the government, and the Director of the Digital Information Agency will be appointed. Then I didn't get the answer to the transformation document, and I didn't get the answer to the employees' deletion. And the last and most important question. If you're saying that NAKIT isn't involved, could you answer me as from January 1st, how will the Ministry of Interior deal with NAKIT's contracts? So how will it be, or will the systems of police, firefighters be compromised, and so on, because it won't be able to enter it in-house? Is it possible to answer that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u76	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u77	From 1 January the Ministry of Interior will award contracts against NAKIT as it is, because from 1 January, neither from 1 February nor from 1 March, nothing changes at all in the position of NAKIT versus MV ČR. Nothing changes there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u78	Thank you. We are still in the debate. Mr. Newsletter králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u79	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to prevent those thumb subtitles and disinformation Facebook and other posts. I would just like to point out calmly that the ANO movement supports digitalisation. We and in our programming statement, as Vice Prime Minister Bartoš rightly points out, were to build a central authority. However, Mr. Vice Prime Minister and I just don't agree on the form of centralization. We believe that it would be possible to build this central body within the Ministry of the Interior or with the Central Registers Administration. The Minister has chosen the Agency's path. I just want it to be said that we support digitalization, we support it and we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u80	Thank you. I'm looking to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If no one, I am done with this debate. And I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word? He doesn't. Neither does the rapporteur. So before we proceed to the vote on the amendments, if we get to them, we still have two proposals to vote on. I'm gonna sing. The first is the proposal by Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, and this is the vote on the repetition of second reading. We would then move on to the second proposal, and that is the vote on the proposal as a rejection. There's a checkout request. I beg you all to sign up. We are voting first on Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal. This is a repeat of second reading. I hereby initiate the vote and ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 42, registered 168, for was 82, against was 85. Result: rejected. [[11.10 hours]] We can therefore now proceed to the next vote, and that is the vote on the motion for rejection. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 43, registered 168, for there was 82, against 84, two abstentions. Result: rejected. We can therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I would ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u81	Mr Vice-President, I believe that before the procedure we should approve, we should vote to withdraw Mr Letocha's amendment, namely Amendment C, House document 1436, which has withdrawn in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u82	Yes, thank you. So I am voting on the withdrawal of Mr Letocha's Parliamentary proposal 1436. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of withdrawing this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 44, registered 172, for was 171, versus 1. Result: accepted. I will now ask you to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u83	I apologize, Mr Vice-President, for my ignorance. I might ask someone from the legislation, because we also had a motion to reject the procedure for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Anyway, the motion's already been voted out, so I guess we'll let it go? Thank you. So then, on the basis of the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 12th meeting of 25 October, we approved the procedure in the following version. First, legislative technical adjustments should be voted in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. In the third reading, the Rules of Procedure shall be read. I didn't notice them, so we're launching. So item number 1 of the procedure will be Amendments A, namely en bloc with one vote. Secondly, Amendment B, third Amendment C, fourth Amendment D, fifth Amendment E1, sixth Amendment E2, seventh Amendment F1, eighth F2, ninth F3, tenth F4, eleventh Act as a whole, for the twelfth accompanying resolution by Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u84	Thank you. I made a note of this, just in a hurry, so we can take a vote. Please present Amendment a here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u85	Unless there was a counter-proposal of the procedure, I suppose - I don't know if we need to vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u86	We agree with this procedure, no one's against it? It doesn't, so we don't have to vote. So let's go to Amendment A.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u87	So Amendments A1 to A8, voting en bloc, petitioner of the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Opinion of the Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u88	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 45, registered 178, in favour was 93, anti 84. Result: accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u89	Amendment B. This is the amendment of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. It issues orders setting out the technical standard for the transmission of data. Opinion of the Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u90	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered 178, for was 177, against no one. Result: accepted. We can move on to the next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u91	Amendment C has been withdrawn, so we move on to Amendment D of Mr Ondřej Kolář, which relates to delaying the withdrawal of the birth number. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u92	The petitioner's opinion? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered 178, in favour of 177, against no one. Result: accepted. We can move on to the next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u93	The next is the vote of Mr Jiří Havránek's E1 amendment. A brief description is the provision of up-to-date personal data, provided that the same data is known in the historical state. Opinion of the Committee: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u94	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, registered 178, in favour of 176, against no one. Result: accepted. We can move on to the next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u95	The next vote is Amendment E2 of Mr Jiří Havránek, providing information on the type of data box and the identifier of the data box. Opinion of the Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u96	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, registered 178, in favour of 176, against no one. Result: accepted. We can move on to the next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u97	The next vote is Mr Jakub Michálek's F1 amendment, the change of the administrator of the contract register. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u98	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, registered 178, in favour was 93, versus 83. Result: accepted. Another point, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u99	Another amendment is the amendment of Mr F2 to Mr Jakub Michálek, adding competence centres to the list of activities of the Agency. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u100	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, registered 178, in favour of the vote was 92, versus 85. Result: accepted. I ask for another amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u101	Another amendment is the F3 of Jakub Michálek. It is a few modifications to the process of assessing public administration information systems by the main architect of eGovernment. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u102	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, registered 178, in favour was 93, versus 85. Result: accepted. I ask for the last amendment. [[11.20 hours]] And I ask for the last amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u103	Last amendment, F4 of Jakub Michálek's Member - establishment of the administration of state services creating trust as a provider of services of the National Certification Authority. Opinion of the Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u104	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 53, registered 178, in favour, was 94, versus 83. Result: accepted. And since all the proposals have been voted on, we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill, and I will make his resolution, the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill amending Act No. 12/2020 Coll., on the right to digital services and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 287, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 54, registered 178, in favour was 92, versus 85. Result: accepted. And I note that the bill has been approved, and now we still have to deal with the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u105	So here I have, if I have rightly noted this, Mr Nacher's accompanying resolution in two options. The first option is the Ministry... or "The Chamber of Deputies requires the Ministry of Regional Development to issue a transparent tender to the Director or Director of the Digital Information Agency, which will be accessible to all applicants and will be sufficient time to register for at least 30 days or 60 days." Therefore, we will vote in two options.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u106	Thank you, so we have two votes in front of us, the first version of 30 days, if I understand correctly, the second version of 60 days. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u107	I believe that the first option should be 60 days, because we have been voting since that longer period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u108	Yes, I understand. So first, we will vote on an accompanying resolution with a version of 60 days. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 55, registered 178, in favour of 86, against 27. Denied. So we can move on to the second vote, and that was 30 days. There's a checkout request. I beg you all to come forward. So we're voting the second option, and that's 30 days. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 56, registered 175, for was 88, against 29. And it was accepted. [[Disagree in the hall.]] Just a moment, please. [[Call off the microphone.]] Please take the floor. I'm gonna ask the rapporteur to... Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u109	Dear colleagues, it does not happen to me often, but I voted 'no' and, oddly enough, I have a 'yes' at the high school, so I will allow myself to question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u110	Yes, so first, we will vote on challenging the vote. I put the vote to question the vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 57, 175 logged in for 171, no one opposed. Result: accepted. So we are voting once again on Mr Nacher's second proposal, and that is 30 days. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 58, registered 175, for was 85, against 29. Result: rejected. And thank you all for your cooperation. I see Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš's request here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u111	Thank you for your word. I'd like to complete the bill. If you look at him, he expects the Director of the Agency to be appointed on a proposal from the Deputy Prime Minister for Digitalisation. It is therefore not an agenda that is related to the HR process of the Office of the Government or the Ministry of Regional Development - no, I just wanted to emphasise it. We're gonna try to make this as transparent as possible, and I'm gonna be happy to inform you about how this competition is going to go, and if that deadline is going to be a gallows, we can go ahead with it. It is important that the director be selected in advance, because if he is a man bound by some work obligations, we must also reflect that he will still have to deliver in his previous profession as part of the untidying of the existing employment. We therefore expect that if the Director fails to select the Director in time or has such responsibilities, he will be entrusted with the management of the Agency on a temporary basis to the person responsible, which, of course, our aim is to eliminate this option as far as possible, and if this option occurs, it will only be a very short period of time. So I will also respond to the motion for a resolution, i.e. Patrik Nacher, and I will try to take those steps so that there is no doubt as to how this procedure is going. However, it is the procedure that I have chosen, because the government then actually approves such a manager on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Vice Prime Minister for digitalisation. So it's not exactly a standard process. And that tender is a thing that I think is right, and I'm trying to put it as transparent as possible. Otherwise, thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-16-ps2021-044-02-001-004.u112	Thank you. And we can proceed to point number
