ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-004-101.u1	101. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Extradition between the Czech Republic and Australia (Canberra, 17 February 2022) /German press 200/ - second reading I ask now that the Minister of Culture Baxa take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-004-101.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous point I forgot to convey the apology and warm greetings of Minister Kupka, which I am doing, and at this point I am also interpreting the greetings and apologies of the Minister of Justice, Pavel Blažek, and therefore I am speaking this proposal. Colleagues, let me briefly mention the Government's proposal by which Parliament shall submit a treaty on extradition between the Czech Republic and Australia to give its consent to ratification. It was signed in Canberra on 17 February this year. The absence of a bilateral treaty constitutes a limit to mutual cooperation between the two states in the field of extradition. This problem arose as a result of the negative position taken by Australia after the division of the ČSFR into further mutual application of the Treaty between the Republic of Czechoslovakia and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland on the mutual extradition of criminals from 1925 as a bilateral contractual basis for extradition. After that date, cases were reported where the perpetrators avoided the stay in Australia of criminal prosecution for crimes committed in the Czech Republic, but Australia refused their extradition until the bilateral international treaty was negotiated. Since 2008, the Australian Party has admitted the issue of persons to the Czech Republic on a non-contractual principle. It also allows our country's right to do so on the basis of assurances of reciprocity. It can be concluded that there has been some improvement, which was subsequently materialized in two cases of the issue to the Czech Republic. The conclusion of the bilateral agreement with Australia will lead to further improvement of bilateral relations in the area under review, which is in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. The implementation of the contract will fall within the competence of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, as regards communication through the Interpol National Central Office, i.e. the Directorate for International Cooperation of the Police Presidium and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as regards communication by diplomatic means. The costs associated with the implementation of the contract will be covered by the budget chapters of these departments, the impact on the state budget being insignificant. Thank you for your attention and please give a favourable assessment of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-004-101.u3	Thank you, Minister, and I now ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee and Member Jiří Strýček to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 200/1. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-004-101.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add to what has been said here by the Minister to this treaty that since the division of the Czechoslovak Federal Republic, there has been, in fact, no bilateral bilateral treaty with Australia on extradition or the execution of prison sentences. Since then, extradition has been limited to certain types of crime on the basis of other international treaties and, in general, since 2008 on the so-called non-contractual principle. And it must be said that only two editions to the Czech Republic from Australia were realized in this way. The negotiated contract thus creates legal conditions for the extradition of persons and will allow for a better and more effective way of conducting criminal prosecutions by the competent authorities of both Contracting States, as well as the subsequent enforcement of decisions in the criminal field. The draft contract, of course, contains the usual provisions of mutual extradition agreements. By discussing the draft of this Treaty, the Foreign Committee addressed its regular meeting, at the 10th meeting of 9 June 2022, and adopted a resolution which I will now, with permission, read to you. [[10.00 hours]] "The resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 10th meeting of 9 June 2022 to the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Treaty on Extradition between the Czech Republic and Australia signed in Canberra on 17 February 2020, House press 200. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Justice Mgr Antonín Stanislav, D, intelligence report by Mr . Jiří Strýček and after the debate of the Foreign Committee I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty on Extradition between the Czech Republic and Australia; [[Canberra, February 17, 2022]] II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee.'; Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-004-101.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening up a debate and asking if anyone is joining the debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the debate. I'm asking for final words? Not interested. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the resolution as read by the rapporteur, Strýček. I'll call in my coworkers from the saloon. [[Laughter.]] Excuse me, I'm gonna go and call my co-workers from the lobby. In the meantime, I will read once again the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty on Extradition between the Czech Republic and Australia, Canberra, 17 February 2022." We will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered by 130 Members and Members, for 117, against none. The proposal was adopted and we agreed to ratify this Treaty. I'm done discussing this point. And before we proceed to discussing the next item, I'll read the apology. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes until 11 o'clock for work reasons. Initiating item number
