ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-005-070.u1	70. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Convention on International Rules for Preventing Collision at Sea, 1972 (COLREG), as amended by subsequent resolutions /German press 93/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Transport once again to present the Government's proposal. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-005-070.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Convention on International Rules for Preventing Collisions at Sea of 1972, called COLREG, is one of the most important international conventions for the movement of vessels at sea. It's basically something like what we know from road traffic. It's basic rules to avoid collisions. In view of the fact that at the moment shipping on the seas is transporting 80 to 90 per cent of the costs and is still increasing, the creation of such uniform rules is one of the important conditions for ensuring safety. Although there is no maritime merchant ship under the Czech flag at this time, this applies to the Czech Republic because it must be part of the agreements, hundreds of yachts sail under our flags on the world seas and, of course, these rules also oblige them to behave properly. The ratification of the COLREG Convention, including the Annexes, as amended by the amendments, is necessary in order to ensure precisely the general safety of maritime navigation and also to fulfil the obligations of the Czech Republic arising from its membership of the relevant international organisation, as well as from its membership of the European Union in connection with the fulfilment of the requirements of uniform law enforcement in international maritime transport. I also ask you to support your consent to this international convention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-005-070.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Strýček, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-005-070.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues. I would like to ask you to approve this international treaty because we already had it here in the last parliamentary term and we did not approve it just at first reading before the vote. As mentioned here by the Minister, this 1972 COLREG Convention actually constitutes some kind of road traffic rules at sea. It has been in force since 1977 and in the same year it was joined by the then ČSSR, but only as a government contract. In combination with the division of the Federation and the formation of the Czech Republic, it is now necessary to ratify the Convention together with about seven other amendments and subsequently announce in the Collection of International Treaties. Although there is currently no naval merchant ship or we are using any naval merchant ship to register or sail under the flag of the Czech Republic, ratification of this Convention is important for the sailing of sea yachts registered in the Czech Maritime Register and recreational vessels flying the flag of the Czech Republic. Ratification of the Convention is also necessary in order to ensure general safety of maritime navigation, which is currently involved in increasing numbers of Czech, mostly recreational vessels of different kinds. For the sake of interest, I would like to say that the Ministry has already issued about 10,000 certificates for the management of a sea yacht on the basis of that convention. A fully ratified treaty is also very important in our environment. Furthermore, ratification is necessary, inter alia, because of the fulfilment of the Czech Republic's commitments to membership of the European Union and compliance with the requirements of the regular audit of the International Maritime Organisation. It's basically just for refills. Every Czech citizen has the right to trace the international convention, which the Czech Republic is bound, not only in English, but also in Czech language. The Ministry of Transport, as I have already said, has an international qualification document in the register of approximately 10,000 persons who have been issued on the basis of proof of professional competence for the management of a sea yacht, a so-called certificate of competence for the management of a sea yacht. Getting to know the fully valid text of the COLREG Convention is absolutely important in tests, especially for subsequent practice at sea. To conclude, for the sake of interest, the Croatian Party has recognised unilaterally the licences issued by the Ministry of Transport for the lending of sea-going cruise vessels in Croatia, and for this reason it is very important that the yachtsmen, to whom the Ministry of Transport has issued international qualification documents, have the possibility to get a detailed understanding of the text in the Czech language, especially when the Czech Republic is a contracting party to such a convention. So I ask you once again to take this path to approve this international treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-005-070.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, for your introduction to the press. I am opening a general debate. I'm asking if there's anyone who's applying to the general debate? I don't see anybody, I don't see anybody, so I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or rapporteur? It's not like that. [[12.30 hours]] Since no proposals have been made, we will therefore consider the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have an alternative or complementary proposal? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 164 Members voted in favour of 131, and no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. That concludes the discussion of paragraph 70, House press 93, namely its first reading. Now I'll read the apologies. For work reasons, Minister Šalomoun apologizes from 12 a.m. to the end of today's day. Mr Fridrich also apologizes from six thirty to the end of the day for health reasons, and Mr Jan Richter apologises from the sitting day between half one and nineteen o'clock, respectively until the end of the day for working reasons. That was an apology. Now let's continue with the point.
