ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 /German press 315/ - first reading He was interrupted in the debate by Mr Karel Rais. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, please, and Mr. Richter will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u2	Thank you. I basically said before the break that the average expenditure on education within the EU was about 5%, while here in this budget in Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education, about 3.45, about 3.5 percent, or that it is relatively compared to European countries as a lower budget. And then I said I wanted to deal with some of the selected issues here from the budget. First of all, it is a traditional increase in salaries for educational staff in regional education. In 2022, it is quite obvious that the increase was not realised in full according to the government statement, and according to what I said or showed - I quoted the results of Münich and Sojka's work - where the assumption is that it will probably not be fulfilled here according to budget 2023, but we will see that. In any case, in 2023, there will be an increase in the distribution of remuneration, and wages will grow further, in regional education faster than in higher education - this is also referred to in the material itself, and these missing funds within the Ministry of Education or Higher Education department are also referred to by the rectors by letter to the Minister on 13 September 2022. In this context, in particular, the lack of an increase in operating costs for universities is about 2,650,000,000. The increase in costs, which is also linked to the coverage of energy prices, is estimated by the Rectors at 1,700,000, which is missing in the budget. There's also an amount of CZK 800 million, so there's a kind of uncovered demand. With regard to science, research and innovation, the budget of the Rectors was essentially estimated at CZK 762 million and CZK 266 million is added to the budget, which, of course, does not cover the rectors' demands, it concerns universities. Next, we need to talk about operating costs, which may also be a problem in connection with the energy leap in infrastructure, international research centres such as the Laser Centre, CEITEC. Rectors point out - and I personally identify with them that the adjustment of expenditure for the medium-term budgetary framework for higher education for the years 2024 and 2025 is not actually discussed there. And I think that there is a need for the GDP ratio to be around 0.55%, as is a good practice in the European Union. So it bothers me at budgets for 2022, it was the same that there was actually a medium-term framework. If I look at the details, I was surprised, for example, by removing the subsidy for the activities of the Czech scientific institution, which has an extremely large international reputation, which is the Czech Archaeological Institute, which was reduced by CZK 25 million. I know that there are no interpelations or that there is no interpelling time, but I think it might be appropriate for the Minister to comment on this reduction in the future at second reading. I think it could be liquidation, or I just got it from the media that it could be liquidation for this office. In other problematic details, I would stress the problem of the proposed ONIV budget for 2023 for regional education, once again underestimating the amount, there is 2 630 000 000. We have been reducing this budget for 2022, so that other non-investment costs for regional education are constantly being reduced, and this is one of the few management tools for which the director influences the results and running of the school. This and part of it are of a semi-mandatory nature, of course, because it pays sick leave for teachers, but yet there is room for the director to buy equipment and other matters for schools, and for the second time during the existence of this government actually ONIV has been reduced. Of course, a number of positive elements can be found in the budget. Personally, I consider it positive that there is support for study programmes for doctors, non-medical professions, selected technical experts, so there is some sort of strategic view to see at least a little bit. But when I look at this overall, the decline in education spending due to GDP is quite insufficient (?) and there is a real, absolutely real risk that the financial deficit will be reflected in the quality of education at all levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Richter, I have two facts here. I have Mr Vondrák's application, and I have it here in the order - Mr Mr Vondrák's.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u4	Good afternoon. Thanks for the word - two minutes, I'll be short. I would point out two things here that I consider to be a threat to the budget. The first concerns the underfinancing of regional education, where the increase will clearly not be sufficient to comply with the rules that a pedagogical worker will have a salary of 130 per cent of the average salary. It's basically impossible to keep. The prediction is that it will be somewhere at 110 percent, so it is a big paradox from the point of view that we will soon discuss the law on pedagogical workers, where it will actually be encoded directly that the pedagogical worker should have 130 percent of the salary of the average of the Czech Republic. This is the first thing I consider to be very problematic, and in my opinion it will have a negative impact on the interest in the profession of teacher, as it used to be in previous years. That's the first thing. The second thing is the college budget, which is increased by 2.3 billion. We had a representative of the Ministry of Education, náměstek Minister Miller, at the school committee meeting before last, who submitted a request to our committee to increase the college budget by 5 billion. The 2.3 billion is half, and it will clearly mean some kind of restriction, which will, of course, be given to the energy crisis. I firmly believe that this can be tolerated, but there is quite a significant problem here, namely that these funds will be missing on salaries. Thank you, that's all. We're converging to not fund education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u5	Thank you for keeping time. I now ask Mr Okleštek, Mr Oklešťek, to make a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Ministers, fellow Members, I will follow up on my two previous speakers in relation to regional education, because there is now information in the media space regarding the interview provided by Minister Deník N, and the headline is "This is on the poultice and demise, the idea of teachers over Balašův's idea is to cancel the extras". It is amazing, because the text itself reads this way, and I quote: "The teacher's public has raised the remarks made by the Minister of Education in an interview for Diary N, where he mentioned, among other things, that teachers do not deserve extra substitute fees, they are said to be surviving and not all teach well. Plus, he thinks the directors are hysterical and blackmailed over missing money. They, along with the teachers, consider his words scandalous and ask for his resignation." That's the end of the quote. I would mention here that actually, as my previous speakers said, that regional education and education in general is underfunded, so it is the Minister who mentions in this interview that they have little money. Yeah? That's right there in the "blackmail him for missing money" sentence. So I would recommend that we are at the first reading of the budget, and there is still room for the adaptation of education funding in the form of amendments, so I would ask that the Ministry of Education deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u7	Thank you, too, and Mr Richter will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u8	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on a few points on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic in chapter 362 of the National Sports Agency or Chapter 362. Clubs, sports associations, especially in amateur competition, are still waiting for help in the energy crisis. Everyone's in great danger. I've been stressing that here for several times. Even in the new draft budget for 2023, this is not reflected in what increases, even after the start-up, are expected here. Sports associations don't know yet if they're gonna have to close down sports grounds due to an increase in energy prices. Clubs that I have mentioned several times in the past, and I can return to this a little bit, have barely survived the coronavirus pandemic, and no one can know whether they will still appear in any form, are reflected in this next crisis, this is an energy crisis, when the funds do not have or are significantly thinner. And there will certainly be at least an increase in children's training and, at worst, the closure of sports facilities. Not only do I draw attention to this here, but the Czech Union of Sport, Associations as such draws attention to it, and we do not know when to close the sport centre suddenly from one day to the next. Sports clubs and physical unity dramatically increased electricity costs by hundreds of percent, paying hundreds of thousands of crowns a month for the operation of gyms or halls, but they have nothing to take from. State aid is not sufficient. Miroslav Jansta, President of the Czech Union of Sport, comments: "We expect children's training to get more expensive and perhaps even more catastrophic scenarios. When the hot season kicks in, some associations will close down the sports grounds or get rid of them, they're on the financial bottom. And, yes, there will be catastrophic scenarios if the clubs and associations are not adequately helped by the state. The number of clubs or body-building units facing an increase in the cost of operation and maintenance of sports facilities is increasing sharply. Currently, it does not have enough resources to pay for these items 61 per cent of bodybuilding unity and sports clubs. This results from a survey of the Czech Union of Sport, which involved almost 1,700 representatives from clubs and unity. The situation will continue to escalate. Really, about 80 percent of clubs that own or rent sports facilities or other sports facilities are already facing these problems. If the state does not hit significantly through the National Sports Agency, there will really be closure of sports sites, thereby canceling training for children," said Miroslav Jansta, Chairman of the Czech Republic. TJ Bohemians Prague, I will quote again: "The electricity costs alone increased by 86 percent compared to last year. We pay CZK 15 million per year for the operation, we can't afford it, the situation is unsustainable, which is why we had to sell one of our halls." SK Radbuza Plzeň: "If it goes on like this, it can be liquidation for us. The swimming pool and winter stadium are the most energy-intensive buildings. We are worried further, we have a railroad in the neighborhood, so when a train passes by, the level is shaking, and thus, in the time of the existence of the pool, we have this one in a state of emergency." HC Lomnice nad Copelkou: "Under us we have all the traffic costs, we have a winter stadium from the town and the engine room is ours. All energy costs follow us, that is, everything about electricity, gas, revisions, employees and so on. We draw resources from sales and from membership contributions. We normally only paid about CZK 700,000 per year for energy. This year, for the same consumption, we are at CZK 3 million per year. We are completely unhappy, we received CZK 280,000 from the county for operation and maintenance. Support from the city is in the tens of thousands. We have nine categories, about 130 children under the age of 18. We've always managed well, we've been able to finance the operation. We can't do that today. We have to deal with the debts of the last few months. We've exhausted the resources we've received from the city. When I compare the costs of kilowatts in previous seasons, it grew from 2.30 including VAT to 10 CZK including VAT. Last year, the cost increased to 300,000, this year by 900,000." I'm still just quoting. The BBSS Hockey Club states: "We, as a collective unity, own the winter stadium. We had 1 MW electricity for 910 CZK, last year for 1,500 and this year for 1,800 CZK. This is liquidation, yet the funding from the subsidies is reduced. If it fails to fix, but here I stress the good price of electricity for the next period, it is possible that we will only pay the electricity 600,000 a month, and that is liquidation for us." [[14.50 hours]] TJ Ostrava: "We currently pay up to CZK 1.2 million per year for energy. We live from hand to mouth. We used to pay $850,000. Who cares if sports have something to live on or not? My big criticism is that all governments after 1990 are putting on sport - three dots here - and essentially not financing it. It's just crumbs they give. We have 16 sports, nearly 1,600 members, and we have to raise funds from financial contributions for our operation, otherwise we can't. We must take care of ourselves in the vast majority. If it wasn't for family budgets, sports organizations don't exist. We're trying to get as much money as we can by renting the property, but we're probably gonna have to reach for a raise. It's a lot on the edge. This year we obtained only CZK 141 000 from the regional authority for the operation of the state, otherwise we obtained nothing more. I'm sure we'd check in if the program came out. We fight as much as we can, we choke, we grieve." SK Olympia Dolní Břežany: "We have a winter inflatable hall. Energy prices have been sustainable in the past. Now we can barely afford the hall and we don't even know if we're going to build it in the winter season. Energy costs are lethal for us, reaching around CZK 100,000 a month, which is half a million in the winter season, plus the costs of building and dismantling the hall about CZK 2×100,000. The total cost of the winter is 0.7 million. We can't rent much. In the morning, no one wants to, and in the afternoon and evening, the hall is full of our youth teams. We have almost 200 children." TJ ABC Braník: "With 95% probability we will increase training between 20 and 100 percent if we pay for energy backups what we do now. We've grown by 330 percent in order." Tomáš Cvikl, Chairman of the Squash Club Strahov: "We will have to increase the single rates. We don't know yet how strongly we're going to have to approach this." ČUS, Nymburk Sports Centre and Podolí Swimming Stadium: "The price of electricity for these two key sports facilities in the first four months of 2019 was CZK 1.6 million. Over the same period this year, the amount climbed to CZK 6 million, which is an increase of 362,92 %. The total estimated annual increase in the price of electricity is CZK 19.5 million in this year. We don't know what we're gonna do when the gas supply ends at the end of the year. This will increase by another 25 to 30 million crowns. If we make an appropriate price increase, the sports associations and clubs will no longer have the money to use these premises, because they received less subsidies than last year." I could go on like this forever. Maybe one of you will just light up someday, until, like I said last time or somewhere else - when Podoli really closes at the end of the year and you and your kids have nowhere to go, and so on. So maybe we, as politicians or you, are putting forward a government draft state budget for 2023, realize that there really is no money for energy. In my last performance, I got into a verbal firefight with Mr. Stanjura, who pointed out to me how unoriented I was about the NSA getting money the way you actually said the 500 million that were prepared here were what they wanted. Yes, when I looked into all the information, it's true that they got what they wanted, but it was clearly suggested or recommended that they wouldn't get any more anyway. And at a time when the amount was being negotiated, the prices or the evolution of energy prices on the market were not yet as clear as they would evolve so that they could ask for more or more to argue that the amount was insufficient. Sports associations do not have many options to defend themselves against this crisis. One of them is the increase in membership contributions, which is repeated several times here, but this is a dead end and, in essence, it is a liquidation even in the direction of families who will not have it and will have to set priorities for where the money from their family budgets will go. We repeat: if the situation does not improve, we will probably have to close down the sports grounds as well. As a representative of the largest football union in the Czech Republic - we have problems with the fact that all our sports training takes place during the winter in the halls. We don't own the halls, we rent them, we go to gyms and so on and we pay money for it. Those clubs, as they've already squeezed out of the sports grounds today, which are renting for spring, summer and autumn months, do not have the necessary resources for winter at the moment. So I think the lobby or concentration in the halls or the practice in the lobby this week will be very limited and we'll focus on being out there. Excellent is the time that the weather still wishes us that the hot season hasn't started fully, that we can still practice outside and the competitions are still running, so that's the only thing that's positive about it. It is also possible - because, for example, Mr Jaroslav Chvalný states, I will quote: "It is possible that devices will sell or restrict their operation because they will not be able to drown less. If they drown less, the hall won't actually be used anymore, so maybe they'll decide to sell it." I think it's a shame to sell these days. Great physical unity with property has already exhausted support from cities and regions in these months, as I mentioned, and I can really imagine how they will be looking for funds at the end of the year as part of the billing. I did not find in the draft budget that it would include a significant increase in the funds for operation and maintenance for 2023, which will deepen the existential problems of sports sites. Even though prices are so high, clubs and athletes or club presidents did not count on them to be hard to finance. It can be increased within the budget into investment, but at the cost of not being finance for operation and maintenance. Then the budget of both my club and my unions is cut. Once again, I come to the conclusion that the missing money will be reflected in the increase in registration fees, but, as I say several times, it will only burden family budgets, and people or families will look for priorities other than sport and other activities. So I think it's for a lot of clubs and for all of us to be vanquished. Finally, just one sentence that I will present in the second reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget with the actual figures and things that I will have prepared under the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch is now in the debate, but before I give him my word, Mr Haas has made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u10	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Just a quick reaction, because the previous speech of the previous speaker indicated that the government was not helping sports, sports organizations, sports facilities, to cope with the current severe energy crisis, so a few very specific remarks from specific numbers. The energy price ceiling by the government's regulation of 7 October means direct financial assistance. I'll show you two specific sports grounds. I'm based on real needs because I'm really researching the data. Hockey stadium in Jihlava in operation and using HC Dukla Jihlava, total annual savings thanks to the ceiling. I compared the real consumption of energy, the unspoiled price versus the price, to the unspoiled price, I'm based on the price on the energy exchange from October 13th. The total annual energy savings thanks to the ceiling, in other words the government spends money on sport only at this hockey stadium, is CZK 5 971 680. It's a stadium used by a pro hockey club. It falls into the ceiling due to the fact that according to officially published data in the commercial register it is a small medium-sized entrepreneur. Second particular example of ammunition, sports hall in Svitavy owned by the city. The total annual energy saving thanks to the ceiling, in other words the government's assistance to this particular sports facility, is CZK 1,137,300 a year. Those sports venues where I've been researching real energy consumption and I've done a calculation of the difference between the unspoiled price versus the price, these are really amounts in million-dollar values that the government helps sports facilities in times of energy crisis. The sports hall in Svitách, owned by the city, falls under the ceiling scheme due to the fact that it is the contracting authority under the institutional code 13 000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Richter. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u12	Thank you. To Mr Haas, through Madam President. The way you say it, it's beautiful, the numbers really fit. But between the cropping that was done in October, the clubs were paying some money and there they were about higher amounts than you here are able to present now. At the same time, there's a difference between the original price and the ceiling that pays off the clubs, and they don't have the budget for it. That's what I've been wanting to talk about all along. The splash, thank God it's there in some way. Mostly, we're saying this over and over again, if the manufacturers were to take a shower, and not until after that, we might have been somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Haas wants to respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u14	I've only got two quick notes left. I do not praise you for the current energy crisis, but let us face it, and this needs to sound fair to the whole Republic, not only to the sporting environment: no government, whatever political leadership any party in this House, will ever pay the total increase in all energy prices due to the energy crisis. Let's face it. I've been comparing real numbers here, stock market prices versus what will bring down the ceiling, and that ceiling is at prices that the Czech Republic can afford budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u15	Thank you. Have a good afternoon. Mr Richter is making his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u16	Thank you. Mr Haas, through Madam President: we understand everything, but I was talking about the ceiling that should be with producers, then the state would not have to pay a crown, that is one thing. And the second thing - that was in our programming statement, 28 points where we pointed it out. Don't say that any government would behave the same way, ours would behave differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u17	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate, and since Mr Bžoch is registered, I will move him to the end of the order. Mr Kamal Farhan is another enrollment, Mrs Klára Dostálová will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u18	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the floor. I would only like to comment briefly on the part that concerns health care. The budget always shows the government's true priorities by saying numbers. After reducing payments for state insured persons to public health insurance, few will be surprised that lower expenditure frameworks of the health resort for next year have also appeared. The government is strongly increasing defence spending, and I consider this to be right in the current international security situation, for example, but, contrary to its pre-election promises, it adds swell bureaucracy to officials, and, moreover, it has already started on its arrival by unnecessarily increasing the number of ministers and officials serving them at the government's office. Now, allow me, where, on the contrary, we would see added value for our citizens for the first good, the government is not investing. We currently lack 3,000 nurses in the Czech Republic, 1,000 doctors. Those aren't abstract numbers. These doctors lack specific patients, our fellow citizens. 30 to 49 percent of practitioners and pediatricians are retired. That's a ticking bomb from my point of view. There is no doubt that, without increasing the amount of money to prepare doctors and nurses and projects to recruit health workers from other countries, the situation will continue to deteriorate. Aging the population will highlight the lack of health workers. But this is not the way to draft the budget for 2023. Providing a sufficient number of doctors and nurses for Czech patients is neither a budget nor a de facto priority of Petr Fiala's government. The Ministry of Health is completely inactive in this matter, the last increase in the budget for increasing these workers was actually pushed by the former Minister for YES. But, of course, that's not enough, it's necessary to move on, which has admitted to me by the Ministry of Health in reply to my written interpelation. I have been told that they will consider extending the measures that Minister Vojtěch has already implemented in the past, but until next year they will begin to wonder about it. And I'm asking here when the current government or some of its members said they were ready to rule a year before the election, that they were ready, that now that they've actually had a year of their term, which is two years ago, how do I deal with the answer in that they're going to start dealing with this situation in 2023, de facto after two years. Other investments with added value for citizens are major investments in the modernisation of hospitals. For example, it is the construction of the Center for Cardiovascular and Transplant Medicine in Brno, also the construction of a completely new National Cancer Institute in Prague from the National Recovery Plan. Investment in complex cancer centres in regions will also be beneficial. But in order for these investments to take place, it is necessary to have money for financial participation and VAT for projects. Although the Ministry of Health claims that it has money for everything, it quietly writes a letter to the Minister of Finance asking for money that the Ministry does not have and threatens that if the government does not receive any more money for VAT, the realization of investments in hospitals is unrealistic and the Czech Republic is at risk of losing European money. However, the Ministry of Finance has not provided any VAT money and will not give in this state budget that we are discussing, so there is no VAT money for hospitals. So I'm asking the Minister of Health or the Government what they're going to pay for at the Faculty Hospital. The VAT moto and the share that will reach billions of values? I therefore ask the Minister of Health: Did you, Minister, find the 1.7 billion VAT you wrote to the Minister of Finance and tell him that without them, the investment in health will fail? Where did you find the 1.7 billion that you don't want after the state budget anymore, and even though you will raise your hand for this government proposal without 1.7 billion VAT for hospitals in the Chamber of Deputies? The draft state budget for next year is further proof that health is neither the priority of Prime Minister Petr Fiala nor the government, and I fear that health, unfortunately, and that is the saddest sentence of my speech, is not the priority of the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u19	Thank you. The next party to the debate is Mrs Klára Dostálová, Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u20	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues. I would also like to say a few words about the draft state budget submitted for 2023. I have to press a tear here a little bit, because, of course, if I look at the Ministry of Regional Development's budget, the fall is really big there. We're not talking about tens of millions or hundreds of millions here, but unfortunately we're talking about a few billion, that drop is almost 9 billion. I will try again to remind you that the current budget deficit of 295 billion does not correspond to the reality at all, which we have talked about here - the state budget itself is counting on revenue of 1,928 billion and unprecedented expenditure of CZK 2, 223 billion. I will not go into detail because my colleague Alena Schillerová has already talked about this very much. Only one example for all, which also highlights the National Budget Board's continued expenditure expansion of the public sector, which is expressed, for example, by another planned increase in the number of public sector employees by about 8 000 people. And here, of course, the controversy over the fact that on the one hand, we are talking about the investigation, and on the other hand, we are developing new central authorities of the state administration, whose function could easily be performed by the Ministry, namely the Ministry of the Interior. I am talking about the DIA, which means the Digital and Information Agency, and even more paradox is that, even against this agency and such the emergence of a new central body, civil servants themselves are fighting, who address Members, that this really is not the way in the right direction. The current government coalition on the revenue side of the budget draws on an extraordinary increase in tax collection due to volatile inflation, once again just a reminder of a few figures: an increase in VAT of more than CZK 30 billion, a year-on-year increase in corporate tax from 131 billion to 257 billion, i.e. more than 125 billion, a year-on-year increase in personal income tax by more than 16 billion. And so I could continue to do so, such as increasing the lottery levy, gambling tax, increasing revenue from the collection of other taxes and charges, raising collections from dividends from state-owned enterprises. [[15.10 hours]] Speaking of lotteries, I am really in the context of the fact that, of course, I have particularly studied the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development, there is an absolutely incomprehensible amendment from coalition Members to the tax package, where basically a reduction in lottery tax is proposed, and in addition, the Ministry, which is facing such a huge decline in income, is indeed worth CZK 9 billion. For me, this is incomprehensible, I just don't understand this approach. I am concerned that the Ministry of Regional Development has basically become a cinderella in the current government coalition, which no one is interested in, but on the other hand, it has to be said that the Ministry of Regional Development has very important agendas. Or doesn't any of the coalition MPs see, for example, the current housing crisis? They do not see the fundamental expression of mortgage loans in the Czech Republic, what happens here that there is essentially no more form and support of property housing, which, of course, a large part of the Czech population requires, but is it completely unavailable for it? Why doesn't this matter? Why isn't there money? Why, on the one hand, are gambling taxes reduced, or do they want to reduce gambling taxes, and on the other hand, the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development is on housing policy - and I don't want to let you guess, but it's really smiling - the budget of the MMR for 2023 for housing policy is 15 million. 15 million! You can't build a single family home for that at the time of the construction work today. This is really unbelievable for me. Of course, I will also try to help the Minister, as much as I can, in order to make things right in some way by means of amendments, I will be very happy to work with coalition MPs on this, but this must still be a priority for this government! We cannot only address the problems of the current energy crisis, but of course we must also perceive the housing crisis. Even as former Minister for Regional Development, I had planned spending of CZK 29 billion, in the budget, in the state budget, in the amendment the Minister allowed an increase to CZK 31 billion. I also very positively acknowledged that this is certainly the way in the right direction for it to be for the development of housing policy as such, but also, of course, for the development of cities and municipalities. Unfortunately, in chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development for 2023 the amount is significantly reduced, i.e. from CZK 31 billion to CZK 22.5 billion. This means a drop of almost 9 billion in absolute terms, and that is, of course, the money that, if we look at it from the perspective and from the consequences of falling inflation, you get significantly less money in the finals. I have to go back to this again because this figure in the context of current events, 15 million on housing policy, when housing prices in the European Union increased by 10.5% year on year this first quarter, the most significant growth within the EU was recorded in the Czech Republic, where they increased by 24.7 percent year on year. This is based on data published by Eurostat's European Statistical Office. The year-on-year growth in housing prices in the EU has been the strongest in the first quarter since the end of 2006 and I remind you again, the result is that you have CZK 15 million in the budget for this solution. When I look at the overall budget, of course, I am always interested in it, because the Ministry is in particular the Ministry of Aid to municipalities in their development, but also with housing policy and tourism, it is precisely in support of regional development and tourism that there is a sum of 18,8 billion out of the 22.5, for us there were 26,4 billion. So you can see that there is, of course, a very significant decline in grant programs and support for municipalities. What, on the contrary, needs to be highlighted - and I am very glad that the Minister took it to this end - and that he is indeed continuing to support the Mountain Service. Here it is also to be appreciated, because in the draft budget there is 460 million for the Mountain Service, and there is also an increased subsidy for the State Investment Support Fund, but in the context, of course, of all the events, where brownfields and all these things are also there, and it is more likely to go the way of credit, which is not exactly the best way in which the municipalities are facing such huge energy crises, inflation crises and so on, so the loans will not, of course, fully prioritize the municipalities, they will really need more funding, but the amount of CZK 2.3 billion is also not something that I would probably criticize, that is the way in the right direction to increase support for the State Investment Support Fund. I just hope that the sums - and that we will say it with the Minister on the committee, I am sorry that the Minister is not here right now - so I hope that he too, as the Ministry is so specific that he is declaring grant programmes this year for next year, so the money thanks to the Minister Stanjur, who added it to this year, has been parked in unused expenditure, and that these unused expenditures will therefore be in favour of housing policy and support of the regions in particular. Just to remind you, because there are, after all, a large number of municipal politicians in the Chamber of Deputies, only the demands of cities and municipalities on the subsidy titles of the Ministry of Regional Development are around 13 billion a year, and I, when I look at it from the perspective of how the budget is proposed, are proposed in the budget overall, whether it is the development of municipalities or tourism, 1.1 billion. This is indeed a huge discrepancy in the context of the demand for these projects. However, what I am very sorry about is that I have variously been in the hands of a presentation that the Ministry presented within one of the Regional Association working groups that they want to intervene in these subsidy programmes and want to increase their share of funding for the projects to the municipalities. I say again, at such a time when these municipalities are facing huge crises, they will, of course, increase their share of the subsidy programmes will mean huge interventions in their budgets. It is still mentioned in the presentation that municipalities should go into loans rather than subsidies for local roads. Well, if such changes in grant programs, please tell the municipalities that for that year you will not announce them at all, rather than, of course, let the municipalities prepare projects with a completely slim hope that they will succeed, because again I say, demand is 13 billion, in the budget 1.1 billion, it is clear that there must be a number of unsatisfied ones. As I said before, really, when I looked at the Ministry of Regional Development's budget, and I think it would be worth saying here, what were the facts of the Ministry of Regional Development's income and spending since 2019. The revenue of 2019 was 22.7 billion, and the reality was 23.4 billion, and as for the reality of 2022, it was 22 billion again. The draft budget for 2023 is 16.6 billion revenue. That means, you see, actually, that compared to the previous years, compared to the years of the government of Andrej Babiš, the decline in the Ministry of Regional Development is really rapid and it is not possible to draw attention to this here. Just to give you an idea of what the expenses are. Reality 2019 - 27.4 billion, reality 2020 - 31,5 billion, so I am talking about the government of Andrej Babiš. And as far as the budget draft for 2023 is concerned - expenditures 22.5, so there really is a fall. I would like to ask very much whether there would be any further opportunity to have fun, especially in the context of the solution to the housing crisis, and to help cities and municipalities. I will certainly be glad if I can consult the amendments, especially with Minister Bartoš, but also with the Minister of Finance, and hope that at least some more crowns over the 15 million, because it is really very smiling, will be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u21	I thank the honourable Member and the next in line is Mr Kolovratník, as announced, and Mr Špičák will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. We've been discussing this, it's already appearing, technically with Madam President, that there's only been a technical error. We were thus prepared for the debate and thank you for allowing me to take the floor now and to speak to the state budget. Colleagues and colleagues, logically I will speak from the point of view of a Member who is engaged in transport here in the House, on the subject of a budget or part of the state budget devoted to the Department of Transport, namely the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I've prepared my performance structurally. I want to talk about this with an accounting trick that concerns the huge amount of CZK 30.7 billion that SFDI will borrow as planned by the government. [[15.20 hours]] But by the time I get to my ready performance, I'll take the liberty of reacting quickly to Minister Martin Kupka. Unfortunately, he's not here, maybe later, at this point, then he'll take it from the record. He talked about it rather strongly and flamingly sometime after 13:00. It was still in the moment of priority rights, so I couldn't react immediately at that time. Martin Kupka in his performance quite sharply opposed Karel Havlíček in preferential rights or performances. He was critical of him, he didn't like his comment being inappropriate, but I think the argument was completely unnecessary. It has to be said that the current government, the Ministry of Transport, and so it is, it is, it continues our work, it follows up on our work that we have prepared, and please remember that in many cases it was common here in the House of Labour, where, for example, across the political spectrum, we amended Line Act 416, where we introduced the possibility of prior possession, expropriation, working Polish methods, for important line constructions, that was the consensus of the House. I will recall the resolution of the House of March 2017, where we called on the government to launch a high-speed project. That was also a broad consensus, preparations continued during the previous parliamentary term, and now Minister Kupka often talks about high-speed lines and follows up on the work we have prepared, and yet there is no reason to be in dispute. There is certainly no reason to be in dispute on our part, on the contrary, we are happy to appreciate the amount, the increase in the budget, the overall increase in the budget of the SFDI to 150.9 billion, that is correct. But - and here it is - we simply have another, and I will say this diametrically different, the view of the fifth, the substantial part of the budget, which - I am glad that the Minister is now coming to listen to me and respond to me, maybe I will repeat the sentences for the Minister - certainly there is no dispute, and I am responding to the performance after 13:00, in those 100, more than 150 billion, in the increase, in the overall allocation for SFDI, where transport builds on our prepared work, but we simply have a diametrically different view of the amount of 30.7 billion, i.e. what the Ministry of Transport or the Government wants in some way to secure in a new form, new financing. It can go well and I will be happy to do so myself, but there are enormous risks, and at the moment, at the time of the approval of the budget, even the uncertainty that I am simply obliged to point out. Before I analyze the risks before I talk about them, I'm going to say a few numbers here on the microphone that are crucial to us, and that's from the whole budget, from the complex material, one single indicator that's called in the case of transport - a line that's called state budget subsidies to cover the SFDI deficit. This is the net subsidy that - and this is the political decision every year - the state is sending to the SFDI just to cover, say, the loss or deficit. It is because we are still investing, we are building, we are not in it like the Austrian ASFINAG, which has a network more or less finished, can earn much more. So this grant in 2019, I took the axis roughly three, four years ago, in 2019 it was 35.9 billion, a year later in 2020 36.1 billion, i.e. almost the same, but last year, 2021, it almost doubled the previous government, it was 58.5 billion. And unfortunately, the current government is reducing the net item from the state budget, this year it's 45.3 and in the outlook for next year it's 33.8 billion. So you're going back in a net grant from the state budget almost half as low as the amount we had for us in 2019, and we see that as very risky. I'm gonna try to explain now. In my background, when I look at the presentation report of the material we have from SFDI and from the government in eKLEP, there is clearly, correctly described: "The budget of 2023 in the total amount of 150.9 billion, of which the amount of 30.7 billion will be secured from debt financing through loans" - and beware - "after the amendment of the law if necessary" - there is a word or - "of debts issued by the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure." And I, Minister, my dear colleagues, consider this a great risk, an enormously risky operation. The first moment I want to draw attention to is the sentence: "We count on funds or finances through issued bonds from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure." Perhaps many of us have heard about this thing for the first time, including me, and it is true, because the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure has never issued bonds or couldn't, because it doesn't have the legal sanctification, the legal sanctification. And here I point out, I have my first big question mark, and I'll be happy to get a correct answer. Now that I have looked at the House's timetable at the end of this year, we are only waiting for three proper weeks, three proper weeks for the Chamber of Deputies, in which, among other things, we will approve the state budget at second, third reading and so on, and I ask: Is it really, and please rightly the Minister for an answer, is it real within three weeks of the end of the year to catch the amendment of the law? Are we gonna have an amended SFDI law so he can start issuing these bonds? This is the first risk I would point out that we may simply not be able to make it by the end of the year. This means, I see here, we are building some revenue or we are calculating with revenues, which are not yet legislatively supported, are simply virtual and actually in the spirit that was mentioned today at the start of the meeting day by colleague Alena Schillerová in relation to the Modernization Fund, and I assume that Richard Brabec will have the same rhetoric after me in a little while. The second big question mark in the draft budget is that the next large part, and we do not know how large, of the missing 30.7 billion, will be financed by the EIB, using loans, loans from the European Investment Bank. But once again, I must say, this is a huge uncertainty. I've been to those negotiations with the EIB myself, and I'll admit I'm rooting for them that it's a good tool. It is a bank set up by European states, it is supposed to be non-commercial, non-profit-making, but it also has safeguards not to compete with standard commercial banks, and its instruments can be interesting in specific modernisation actions, on corridors, those so-called blonding call, which, by the way, are already being tested successfully on the Railway Administration. For example, it is a large investment event in the Pardubice Region between Ústí nad Orlicí and Brandýs nad Orlicí and Chocni and so on and so on. But we don't know at this point and we don't know the terms of the loan from the EI - what the interest rates will be, what the financing rules will be, the rate of the instalments, what the total annual cost of the debt will be, what the financing conditions will be, whether they will be, or would not be better than if they had, at least as far as they are so far, been realized, than if they had just borrowed the state, namely the Ministry of Finance, because they always have, when they borrow - at least so far as they have had conditions, the parameters of the loan, they had more favourable than if any organization had done it by the state established, whether the Railway Administration or the Road and Motorway Directorate. So I want to ask the government, I want to ask the Minister: what is scenario B, what is variant B? I have information - I have not been to the Committee on Budgets, but I have mediated information when exactly this question has been asked by colleagues to Minister Stanjur on the Committee on Budgets: What will you do, what will happen if the instruments do not fall? The answer was virtually zero, there hasn't been one yet, so we don't know what the idea is. So please, if there is one? And I think that this is quite an important thing, if not essential, even for responsible managers, primarily the logical director of the ŘSD and Railway Administration, in smaller but also for the Waterway Directorate. After all, investors will negotiate, those organizations will negotiate new events that will go through the tender, they will be successful in the competitions. And you see, it could be an illustration of the northeast bypass of Pardubice that we're waiting for in the region. Then it's an event that lasts two or two and a half years of construction, and the director is at that point in time to decide whether he's gonna sign the contract or not, but, and I can be wrong, but as I understand the construction at this point, he doesn't have the money yet, they're not planned as state budget subsidies. So my next question is, what will be the order of the investor organisations? Will the directors be able to sign the contracts, or will it be their risk that it will eventually turn out somehow, depending on how we find out what the conditions of the European Investment Bank are? [[15.30 hours]] In short, bottom line, you know that in the debates between me and Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, I often appeal to correctness, and I want to hold it, I don't want to make unnecessary attacks, but here I really have to say what has already been said in the media. Once again, we see that the sum of CZK 30.7 billion is included in the expenditure of the fund, but the amount is not certain yet, it is not planned in the state budget. And so if we have the marketing 200 presented to the media - I'm about to end - 295 billion as a budget deficit, if it has been said that 50 billion is still invented, covered, secured - we're not, we're on some, if I count correctly, 345. And if I were to virtually add to that the other CZK 30.7 billion missing so far in the SFDI, then we're already on some 375 billion crowns. In other words, we have expenditures drawn, but revenue is not yet certain, and that is what I want to draw attention to, and I will be happy to learn some strategy, proposal or idea of how it will be, even on the timeline. Thank you very much and I look forward to an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u23	Thank you, too, and the Minister is already reporting with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly to answer the questions asked, in particular how we intend to handle the regulation of the law. For the sake of clarity, the current SFDI Act makes it possible to use financial instruments such as bonds. What we want to do is supplement the law in such a way as to make use of the state guarantee for issued bond issues. So just for the record, we're going to go the way that the situation allows us at this point. What about the certainty for investors? In fact, a hard answer in the sense of history, because they signed contracts that the Czech State undertook to pay, and that it would undoubtedly pay more than what was prepared in medium-term prospects, because there was CZK 97 billion for this year, and CZK 97 billion would no longer be enough to cover all the agreed contracts, so there had to be a mistake somewhere. However, it is up to us to find a solution together in the House, to find it in the government, and that is the solution we present, responsibly and honestly. Zbyněk Stanjura and I have already gone to the seat of the European Investment Bank, as I mentioned, we will also have a memorandum at our disposal, which declares the basic parameters. We are heading to compile financing under conditions that will simply be the most advantageous for the Czech state. Because of course, on the other hand, if you don't draw the money, which you can't, it just means you can't borrow it somewhere, and she'll always have two sides of the coin, on the other hand, or the deficit. We are trying to proceed in a way that, on the other hand, would not pose a threat to the Czech state, such as ratings. [[Time!]] So much very briefly to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u25	Thank you very much for the time being and for the fact that Mr Milan Feranec is still reporting. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister or ministers, Minister, colleagues, I will just respond to what the Minister said, actually, the minus 30 billion. I mean, the problem is, it's a little bit of an accounting trick, because if it works the way it always does, and the state budget has always settled the deficit, it wouldn't be under 300, it would be 325. And when you say that a government guarantee can possibly be a bond guarantee or a loan guarantee, I just assume that the state will always borrow cheaper than any other fund. That's the first thing. Second thing. I understand if it was an Asfinag with its own income, it's in surplus, I'd understand it there, but SFDI, when will it pay? Even if he took a loan, when he would pay it off, or what would he pay it off? The way the revenue is set, she's incorruptible, the way they're set. And if he paid it off, it's just by restricting his investment activity. That's the trick to hide the $30 billion, like it's a deficit, but we know that SFDI, if he's gonna do his job, can't pay off the $30 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u27	Thank you, too, and is still reporting with Mr Kolohradník, Mr Kolovratník, and then the Minister. Does the Member prefer you? No. Okay, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u28	Gentlemen have compared themselves to following the order of factual remarks. Well, frankly, for me, the answer was fairly general. I suspected the EIB memorandum and so on, but now my colleague Milan Feranec led me to this reaction, because it's just true, it's a different way of debt, and we're just creating the debt anyway. And we just think that more fair and honest - that's why I said those numbers at the beginning when the minister came in, comparing the state budget subsidy to cover losses - that would just be more honest to admit. And really, we're putting that debt somewhere in the future. It will still have to be repaid one day, that ad 1, and ad 2, I forgot one more thing in my speech, but I would also like it to be heard here. You agreed on $6 billion in coalition for regions of twos and threes, and that's a political decision that's yours, we respect it, so you decided, but here I'll remind you: this is not a whole system thing. The money for twos and threes - however much I am the regional representative myself, I recognise that they are underfunded, they are in a terrible state - but it has always been, since 2015, the state has been sending money through the SFDI regions according to how it has been managed primarily by state investment, on corridor lines, on motorways and so on. It's always moved somewhere between three and four billion. Now it's almost double, 6 billion to the regions, but let's realize that we're actually borrowing non-systemic money for the regions, like this kind of loan from the EIB that somebody's gonna be paying off again. So here are two moments that are good, you can do well, all right, but from our point of view, the first mantra is true again: it would be fairer and fairer to admit that we are simply borrowing more money for transport and projecting it into a general government deficit than it would be to hide it behind a memorandum from the EIB and pay it back in the years to come. That's how we see it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u29	Thank you, and now with your own de facto, with your response, Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u30	I just want to open up that point of view fair and square. What does PPP project mean? Same thing. This is also just a long amount of money, which will mean that in the years to come, it will become a SFDI to return the funds, which is no different. It's exactly the same principle. It is money that we must take on debt, because if we do not do so, we will stop the development of transport infrastructure, the repayment of historical infrastructure debt, we will limit any possibility of further economic development of the state. We don't want to do that. And then at this point, we're looking for multiple possibilities from the fan. We're looking fair and square, and here I say, there's no point in arguing about what the form will be. It's about how good the outcome of putting together those options will be. And once again, in the case of PPP projects, it's actually the same case. Last remark: today, if we went into a bigger deficit, really, too, if you wanted to take it consistently, we don't have all the funds we're going to use next year, until the state borrows them in some form, that's all. And we are also trying for future projects, as well as for future funding, such as high-speed lines, to open a fan of possibilities at the moment. And yes, we will assess what is best for the state in terms of the amount of the debt service. And once again, I'm stressing that the mix must also be advantageous for us not to lose the rating, because that would mean paying significantly more for the debt service. Next year it will be 70 billion crowns. This is a relevant consideration in terms of how to use the financial instruments correctly, if we simply have to use them already. And here we all think, quite safely agreed, albeit quietly, that we just have to do it, that we have to secure the funding for the infrastructure. [[Time!]] [[Time, please!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u31	Thank you and one more factual one, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u32	Thank you for saying that. It's recorded, I can see the look, the explanation, and I don't want to go back to him - and now I don't want to make it an interview, but it's part of this debate. And, Minister, I have one single question, a request for an explanation or two questions. Firstly, if you are discussing some form of memorandum with the EIB, what is the idea of a timeline, if it will still be this year, January, February, when roughly could it be clear? That's ad one. And ad two, the relationship with the European Investment Bank will end, so who will be the partner? Who's going to borrow the loan or the loan, if it's individual investors, ŘSD, Railway Administration, or if it's going to be SFDI through it, then it's going to be financed, or if it's going to be a colleague of Stanjura, who might be telling me, is answering that question? [[which is to be]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u33	Thank you. And the answer if the microphone sounds - please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u34	I do not want to go into specific details, but at the moment the negotiations have progressed, so there is already an exchange of information on individual financial projects at expert level. The Memorandum should, of course, be concluded this year with the basic contour, the outlook and possibly the specific level of interest rate and the outlook for drawdown, including, of course, the fact that we are also going to use possible instruments by the EIB in the coming years. A partner for the EIB would be the Ministry of Finance, which would subsequently provide funding to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u35	Thank you and one more factual one, Mr. Milan Feranec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u36	Thank you, I really won't hold up. What was said, it's actually just confirmed that we just moved it a little bit in time, that eventually it becomes part of the state... It's still part of the public debt, it's just shifted in time. But I respect that, I'm just saying that the budget for 2023, or so it's actually expected that SFDI will pay off its income, but that's probably the problem. And if the Treasury provides it there, you've moved it once, not in 2023, but 2024, 2025, or depending on how it's set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u37	Thank you, and the Minister of Finance's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u38	I would expect the opposition to appreciate that we are looking for new financial instruments. Of course, we in the EIB do not only negotiate on the needs of the budget of 2023. The financial framework here was submitted by the Ministry of Transport, not the Ministry of Finance, and specifically the action is for a much higher sum. I must say that the negotiations are going very well so far, because at this time the Czech Republic is a trusted partner of the European Investment Bank, and they like to provide large loans, so we are talking about loans in higher units of billions of euros, not for next year, but in the medium term, especially with emphasis on rail transport. [[is]] I think it's logical, anyone who's ever moved... how Europe supports rail or road transport, that it is in the railroad. And one of the tools why other countries use services, that interest rates and repayment conditions are more favourable than normal market conditions. That is an obvious condition of such a relationship. After all, we will not have a contractual relationship in which we would get conditions worse than the normal issue of government bonds. But that's what we said openly at the beginning of the negotiations, we're talking to the Minister together. As far as finances are concerned, of course, he and his team are discussing concrete projects without the participation of the Ministry of Finance, but the basic framework is discussed as both ministers and we represent the government as a whole, as the Government of the Czech Republic. So I think that's a good thing and that such an instrument may not only come in handy in 2023, but in the next three, four, five years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u39	Thank you, and the factual remarks have ended. We are returning to the general debate to Mrs Jana Berkovcová, who will be prepared by Mr Julius Špičák. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as is apparent from the draft budget for 2023 in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, salaries in education should fall to the level of 2019. After years of returning to the teaching profession, people who left for low salaries, I think it's a step backwards. Please note that in 2022 and 2023, the government is moving away from its own programming statement, stating that the salaries of pedagogical workers will be maintained at 130 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic. In 2023, however, teachers' salaries were to fall to 110 percent, which was the level they reached in 2019. Teachers' salaries should be only 117 (%) of average wages in the Czech Republic in 2023. Teachers will therefore pay back four years to the level of 2019 when it was 116 %. For teachers and pedagogical staff, the best year was 2021, when teachers' salaries amounted to 126 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic. The draft budget does not yet reflect a wage fixation of 130 per cent of the average wage, the salary in the Czech Republic, which will result from the amendment to the school law if approved. In the media and here in the House, much attention was paid to the lack of funding of schools for aids and textbooks for pupils, the so-called ONIV, and in 2023 the funding for other non-investment expenditure of public schools is to be 757 million lower than it was in 2021. In 2021, ONIVY amounted to CZK 3.5 billion, in 2022 only CZK 2.5 billion, i.e. a billion drop, and ONIVY's proposal for 2023 is 2.6 billion, which is an increase of only 200 million compared to this year. But that's not enough when the schools lacked a billion. Therefore, if ONIV 2023 is compared to 2021, there is a drop of CZK 857 million. This means that, like this year, school directors will also be forced to transfer funds intended for the remuneration of quality teachers to other non-investment expenditures in 2023. How, then, should directors motivate teachers when rewards for the best continue to decrease? This year, the reduction of ONIV standard was reflected in the amount of CZK 11 489 per teacher, which is the average amount that primary school directors have to transfer from salaries to ONIV this year. Other non-investment expenditure is an important item for which it is definitely not worth saving. Schools need them for textbooks, for aids, for further education of teaching staff. However, it is illogical that the payment of sickness also comes from this item instead of from personnel costs. Education spending is the most efficient investment that has the highest rate of return, and saving for education does not have to pay off in the future. It's an investigation in the wrong place - our children and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u41	Thank you and the Minister of Education wants to respond with priority rights. Please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Yes, thank you, Madam President. In principle, I agree with you; indeed, education would bear much more resources. The question is, where are we gonna get them, and I'd be happy to look together. As far as average wages are concerned, I don't want to question the 110, it says between 110 and 119. It is not what I would have imagined, and I believe that as soon as it is a mandatorial expense, once we finally discuss the law on pedagogical workers - we haven't gotten to the first reading yet - we're going to move on, and it's going to be a mandatorial expenditure for the state since 2014. [[correct 2024]] So let's hope this works out. Of course, it will burden the budget by an additional, say, 40 billion, so it won't be necessary to put only about 130 billion on wages this year, but it'll be 170, maybe 180 depending on what the average salary will be. I understand that school directors need a whole range of funds paid from ONIV, and I totally agree with you that it doesn't make sense for this to be paid sickly or part of it, that is, the extra that schools have to pay. So I'd even like to initiate some conceptual debate on the subject so that we can talk about what we're going to pay from ONIV, how we're going to do it. [[15.50 hours]] As regards the transfer from payroll to ONIV at present, this is, of course, the transfer of funds that have not been exhausted, wage funds, and can, of course, replace the missing funds that directors need to purchase textbooks. It's not systemic, I get it, but we're definitely going to look for other options again, but I don't think we're going to move forward without a conceptual and systemic discussion. And before that, contributions were made to higher education. To me, education is one system. When funding is diverted somewhere in one place, it becomes negative on another. At present, scissors are being opened between financing regional and higher education, so there is a risk that there will be no one to teach, because there are already assistants fleeing from universities, especially from teaching faculties, to teach to secondary schools, because there are 15 000 more income. This is another matter that we have to deal with, and of course we will also address the issue of salaries or scholarships for doctoral students and other matters relating to the financing of education, and I will be happy to do this together. And I agree with you completely that investing in the future of our children and this republic is the best we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u42	Thank you and now the next one in the general debate is Mr Julius Špičák, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u43	Hello, Madam President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will address three chapters that are somehow close to my heart. Of course, I'm going to start a chapter on the Ministry of Health. All of us, even laymen, know that basically health care is - or we call it a mantra - essentially a resort of absolutely fundamental importance, in which there are huge resources, and we know that the vast majority of these funds come from health insurance, where we know - there has been a heated debate about it - a reduction in these funds as a result of a reduction in payments for state insured persons by some 14 billion. The Ministry of Health itself, i.e. the Ministry of Health's budget itself, is broken, however, in no way negligible and, in essence, there has been a significant reduction, which is incomparable with the reduction in other departments, to reduce from approximately 22 billion to 15 billion. I must say that I envy the representatives of the previous departments discussed here that there is some discussion of priorities, some discussion of new settings within those departments. I must assure you that there is no relevant discussion in the field of health. So it's absolutely fascinating for me to see individual items, that it's essentially a sort of development on the one hand, which is based on some kind of tradition, on the other hand, reminds me, like when they're basically pulling out of a hat somewhere on the fair, without taking into account any analysis and any development of priorities, that's absolutely fascinating to me. I'll give you an example. The Committee asked the Minister of Health in writing and officially for a pandemic concept, because the pandemic is here, it is evolving, it is not negligible, it is burdening the resort and something is worth, organizational measures and so on. We didn't get the concept, we got the report on what happened in the last two years. It's absolutely incredible to me, and I can't describe it any other way than cynicism. [[as:]] As far as individual items are concerned, for the sake of interest - I have to say with gratitude that, at least as far as research is concerned, the volume of resources is not falling, but as far as the state administration is concerned, in the current year it is 2.544 billion, there is a decline of tens of percent against the current year. With regard to special medical facilities - the financing of a health institution, medical rescue service, aircraft operations, UHIS, National Medical Library and so on, the Agency for Health Research, its operation - a drop from 8.4 billion to 2.4 billion. I can't imagine how these devices will work. Health programs: declines against 2021 from 8.3 billion - these programmes include the fight against AIDS, terminal conditions, congenital defects, effects and quality, accessibility, major problem, availability of care in regions - so there was a decline against 2001 from 8.3 billion to 5.4 billion. [[2021?]] I'll select a few curiosities or notions from this extensive material. One note is that in terms of the salaries of all the employees of the resort, so when you recalculate it, there's basically a certain number of employees, and when you recalculate the salaries, it turns out that the average salary per month is CZK 41,000, which is essentially not the 130 percent required in education, and when you look at the salaries, the wage costs of the employees of the allowance organizations, the average salary is CZK 36,000 per month. I think they're incredible numbers. And I'll add a few other curiosities to show how careful the material has been prepared. So the curiosity - increasing the number of employees to the central body of the Ministry of Health by 12 tied to the Smart Quarantine. Oh, my God, what is it today, the Smart Quarantine? And the next point that follows, the reduction of KHS employees by 134 in relation to Smart Quarantine. So these are, of course, minority points, but the points that quite illustrate how the budget was approached. So I can say that essentially the Ministry, the administration of the resort, has left a huge part of the budget, incomparable to the other departments. It's really incredible to me, and I can't imagine how this resort is going to deal with this, and there's no indication of any concept of how that could happen. I would also like to draw attention to two chapters of course of considerable importance, and it is the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic and the Academy of Sciences. The Grant Agency of the Czech Republic is a very specific body and I must say that no one who has not come into any regular contact with this institution can have insight into the body. Fortunately, I succeeded and sat in various supervisory, control, scientific bodies for several years. If something is perfectly constitutional in this state, it is indeed the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, which essentially distributes funds for dedicated support of basic research. There is probably no dispute about the need to grow research, about the accent on this area, and let's see how funding is developing here, because the budget here in 2022 was 4.67 billion, and for the next few years there is a real drop to 4.5 billion, which is not planned to increase even in the medium term, that is, for the years 2024 and 2025. With real inflation, which together will reach between 30 and 40 percent over the three years, it's basically a total liquidation, and I can't imagine how the organization will react to such a reduction. [[16.00 hours]] Next, I'm going to deal with the Academy of Sciences. This is, of course, a very specific organisation again. I must say in advance that, for example, at the time of the covid, she has specific characteristics and, in comparison with other scientific structures, that means universities, she is more direct and therefore more operational in my opinion. So, even during the pandemic, she did quite effectively in areas where research is moving and created a number of diagnostic, restrictive and basically different innovative programmes that were eventually practically implemented. There are repeatedly raids at the Academy of Sciences that it is basically some communist relic, that it should be dissolved and transformed into an area of universities. I completely disagree with that, and even in other countries, such as Germany, Austria and Israel, there are similar institutes outside universities, in Israel, for example, the Weizmann Institute, where I have also worked for some time, so I consider this institution absolutely essential for research in this Republic. I would also like to say that when they came to the opinion, for example, in Austria, that there is a need for some research reform, they went through those research institutions because they were able to respond much more flexibly to the social and political order. So the Academy of Sciences, the budget of the Academy of Sciences, this year, once, the budget of 7 billion was improved by 293 million, which was clearly declared not to happen next year. 200 million were added before the increase in energy, which only covers this requirement of 60 percent, and essentially the final budget of 7 billion to bail out the state is more or less fixed for the next few years. It means that next year the Academy will be able to survive, but for the next year it is quite clear that if something doesn't change, it will literally be a liquidation issue to which the Academy will have to respond essentially by closing certain programs and layoffs. In conclusion, I'm going to keep a complete candy that escapes our attention, and that's the Ministry of Science and Research. I would like to say that research in this country, just as in many areas, unfortunately, does not really bloom and characterize it, is generally simply inefficient. It is characterised by fragmentation, it is characterised by inefficiency, non-motivation, and it is characterised by a lack of competition, namely a lack of foreign workers. In order to gradually change this in some way, it requires absolutely strong and sustained social pressure. I am used to simplifying things, and so strong political pressure can only be created by the Prime Minister, and I have always been in favour of the Prime Minister automatically becoming President of the Council of Science and Research, and so it has been in the past period. So instead, instead of this spontaneous pressure, which really had the strength to change things in individual departments, the ministry was created, which lies under the government's office, and, of course, its budget is not comparable to the budget of the other chapters. However, it is in no way negligible, and today, when really clear appeal should really be efficiency and prioritization, it is a complete disregard for all the stated efforts. So there is no way I can subscribe to the draft budget in the chapters that I have mentioned, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u44	I also thank you and Mr Richard Brabec is the next envoy, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u45	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed government, or her remains. I'm starting to feel a little bit like on Thursday at the interception, and I don't think it's a good idea to discuss first reading things as crucial as the state budget, but that's more like a statement, a little sigh. I'm not going to throw numbers here, which, of course, the chapter of the Ministry of Environment is full of, like the other chapters. And I'm not gonna bully the Minister of Finance with any questions, because I'm not here for obvious reasons, and I may not have her successor for a while. However, there is one item that is so crucial that I'm sure the Minister of Finance knows about it, and I'd like to talk about it for a moment. I follow up on what Mrs. Shadow Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová said here. And when I look at the first sight - or, say, the layman, I feel like a pretty well-educated layman - after eight years at the Ministry, I look at the Ministry of Environment's budget for next year, the proposal is incredible in the case of total income, because they are designed incredibly astronomical in the amount of CZK 94.3 billion. This should be over Vršovická 65, where the ministry is located, a rainbow should kneel and all birds would sing there with joy, because the Ministry never had that much money. But of course the ďábel is hiding in the detail of the budget and there is one extraordinary item - she is not stuck, she swims, she swims on water or hangs in the air - so she is stuck financially, but in fact the item is far more complex, and that is the incriminating 50 billion crowns, I repeat, 50 billion crowns, because that is really a huge amount, and that is what the Ministry has in its income and is supposed to collect it from the Modernization Fund. This item obviously got there at the last minute, let's say, but the Modernization Fund is leaking, which the Minister of Finance knows well, through the State Environmental Fund, and so far there is no similar amount. We, as it happens, recently had the Board of the State Environmental Fund, where the Fund's budget for next year was presented and the draft budget of the State Fund includes income from the Modernisation Fund of CZK 28 billion for next year, but CZK 23 billion is the expenditure of the Modernisation Fund. Because logically: it is already going to continuous events, there are challenges, there are tens already, there will soon be hundreds of projects that will be financed or financed from the Modernization Fund today. In other words, these projects for companies, municipalities, cities, regions and in the future, these projects are, of course, financed by the fact that the Modernization Fund is and will be subsidized in the coming years (?) from the sale of part of the proceeds of emission allowances, the second part goes directly to the state budget, and I just don't see the 50 billion there. But even if they were there, Minister of Finance, by your means, Madam President, you certainly know that getting them out of the Modernisation Fund is not easy at all, because once the Modernization Fund has taken them down, it usually does not return them - for a simple reason. The Modernisation Fund is governed by European directives, decided by the European Commission, the European Investment Bank, and even if this House is beautifully swayed, the Senate, the President has made up his mind, whoever, the government, that they will just pull the money out of there, they can't do it alone, they can't do it without a hearing and without approval from the Investment Committee. And it's not over yet, because in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment besides the 50 billion, there's another 32 billion revenue from emission allowances, so there's a total of CZK 82 billion from the total revenue budget of 94 billion, that's enough. And then when you look at it, you find that it really floats on the water. And I can even think something about the second amount of $32 billion, if it's overshot or not, because it's going to depend on the price of the emission allowance, that's 76 euros today. And I don't know if the 32 billion crowns will be there. But even if they were there, we'll see that over the course of the year, there's still 50 billion left. [[16.10 hours]] That means, you'll remember that I'm here repeatedly tough - when I say it nicely, annoyingly - when I say it ugly to someone, about six times since December last year, he's been performing with such a mantra when I offer the government coalition that there's one option right here, and that's an amendment to the emissions permit bill. I have to say, I wasn't even worth commenting on, and they didn't even send me straight with it, which I kind of felt sorry for, so I always came here and came back and thought, "So I tried again and I'll come back again." No one responded, just no interest. But even if you used this amendment as a carrier, Minister of Finance, through Madam President, it would still be no use at the moment if the money is already in the Modernisation Fund, because it only makes sense if you, let's say, divert the money - forgive me the word - into the state budget before it ends in the Modernisation Fund, because it can, yes, that can be done by the amendment of the law. And I remember there was one reaction to be fair, there was a reaction from my colleagues from the ODS who said when I suggested that the Modernization Fund could be used in the years 2022 and 2023 for social purposes, or before, without emission allowances before they arrived at the Modernization Fund, and they said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So it was actually the only reaction, and then it was no reaction. In other words, if money is already in the Modernization Fund today - and I do not see it because it is not in the next year's budget, the 50 billion - I am just saying that it cannot be pulled out simply that Parliament would decide, and certainly not the government, and take it into the state budget. If it was an amendment to the emission allowance trading law and a five-wheeler would use our proposal or its proposal, yes, then it could divert part of the emission allowances, the flow that divides into the current flowing into the state budget and the current flowing into the Modernization Fund, but then I say that if 50 billion were used from this current to the state budget, there will be little money for projects for which challenges are already launched, and there, of course, are those asking, those interested, waiting for the money, and those projects are simply being funded. So there really is one huge amount in this budget where I understand why it is there, I think we all understand it, but I, Minister, am through you, Madam President, as you know, he's been at the Ministry for eight years, but I really don't remember, and it never would have happened that we would have even proposed three lower orders in a situation where we don't know where they're coming from and if they're coming from. And you'd be the first if we tried something like that, who would give us a terrible bandurian. There would be a huge slash here, squealing from all the sides we've taken the liberty of doing so. So when I see this budget, which has an absolute majority of revenue or an over-half amount of revenue is based on one specific item, which I really don't know where it comes from, when it comes from, and if it's even discussed with anyone - because I don't have that kind of information that would be negotiated - I just can't consider it professional work at least in this chapter, but rather as a squadron, and whoever's presenting it is more of a budget Houdini than a professional and responsible businessman for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u46	Thank you. The Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek came forward with priority rights. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I, ladies and gentlemen, apologize for taking advantage of my priority rights like this, but my colleague Špičák and other colleagues were performing, I dare say friends, with criticism, and I would like to sum up the situation with the health budget, plus thank you, and I would like to begin with that. I would like to thank all Members across the political spectrum for supporting several amendments, and, on the one hand, for supporting the amendment to valorisation of payments for state insured persons, that after 30 years, something that all ministers have tried to do since the revolution. Ours The House has succeeded, and I thank you very much for it, and so I can change health care so as to improve accessibility, improve quality and make care ever better. Secondly, I would like to thank you, and this has to do with it, for supporting the amendment - and I believe, if I remember correctly, that there was perhaps not a single vote against - parties to increase the fund of prevention of health insurance companies to threefold. This, I think, was once again an extremely important step, and, especially today, the prevention fund is something that is very important, which helps to prevent a number of diseases. I would also like to take this opportunity to make the viewers realise that each insurance undertaking offers a number of prevention programmes and it is a shame not to ask for this support. See what your insurance company has to offer, see what benefits it offers, take advantage of it. And I would like to ask you, before I reach my own budget, colleagues and colleagues across the political spectrum, to you who sit on the board of insurance companies behind the Chamber of Deputies, please, if there is any proposal to support the prevention fund, be helpful, make it happen on the board of directors. The Ministry of Health is preparing some comprehensive material for the board of directors so that prevention funds are really rationally used. I'm asking you very much to support me. Without her, I'm not sitting on the board, it's just you that's gonna affect it. The Ministry of Health's revenue next year will be between 5.5 and 5.7, but let's say 5.6 billion. These revenues consist of tax revenue of CZK 30 million and non-tax income of the organisational units of the state, including the central body of 5.5 billion. It is important to say, and it is important that we expect 1 billion revenue from the sale of vaccines, and we would like to gradually get out of the state buying what is not applied, that is the net loss applied, paid by the insurance company, bought by the insurance company or imported by the distributor, bought by the insurance company. We are working on this at European Union level and I think we have succeeded in a number of cases. After all, this is indicated by the fact that we have the last vaccine available in the Czech Republic today from Pfizer, i.e. a mutation vaccine of four, five, and is available throughout the European Union. It has to be said that the other non-tax income will be CZK 50 million. The total expenditure, which is probably more important, will amount to CZK 15,6 billion. Of this amount, the expenditure of 4.5 billion is expenditure covered by the European Union budget, i.e. about 33 percent is EU money, and 66 percent is money given by the Czech State. 1.8 billion is spending on research, development and innovation in the health sector, i.e. supporting the Health Research Agency, and I have guaranteed and promised to support the Agency intensively, and I will continue to do so. Of course, we're going to have to rationalise the work of the AZV and there were some reservations that I can hear intensively, I'm debating with the management of the AZV, and I'm glad that the management of the AZV is taking this very well. I would also like to support projects aimed at public health, and this is where these nearly 2 billion in the next year are intended to serve for this. Finally, there's a billion crowns that we have blocked to buy vaccines. I expect that next year, a vaccine very likely to appear from Moderna, which will be applicable simultaneously to influenza and covid, will be a single dose vaccine against both of these diseases, and for the purchase of any similar vaccine that would have been approved by the EMA and was normally applicable, I have just blocked the amount of 1 billion. [[16.20 hours]] The current expenditure of Chapter 335, which is the Ministry of Health's budget, is proposed in the amount of approximately CZK 8 billion. It's a little more than $8 billion, but it's $8 billion. This amount includes the operation of twenty organisational units of the State, contributions to the operation, establishment of contribution organisations, expenditure on the purchase of certain funds, expenditure on research, innovation, national health subsidy programmes, the operation of medical rescue services. Here's where I'd like to say that apart from the money we're giving directly, we've increased our paycheck! - $1.5 billion worth of medical rescue money. 1.5 billion! Specialization education is, of course, an integral component. I would stress the 50 million that will go and go today, and the first discussions took place, to automate the accreditation system, which is probably the most interested young doctors, students of medical schools and medical schools. I'd like us to say at the end of next year: we're at the finish line. Applications for accreditation will be submitted electronically, approved electronically and we have completed the paperwork. That's 50 million, for buying, developing and implementing the relevant program, which will, of course, be available free of charge to medical faculties. Of course, it takes place in an intense debate with deans of medical faculties. Here I would like to take advantage of this place and thank the Dean's Association, headed by Professor Repk, for really excellent cooperation, for extremely constructive initiatives, including the proposal to reorganize the school school, or the Institute for Further Education in Prague, the ILF, as some also know him, including how they presented their proposals for coordinating the KORs, the SORs, the educational institute, the cathedral and the Dean's College. Even here on the microphone I will repeat what I said to them: What you are proposing, I will definitely enforce and we will achieve it. Of course, part of the money is ready to finance the Czech Red Cross, which is very important from my point of view, and it deserves its support. After all, after the revolution, I have been Vice-President of this organization for some time, and I am a member of it. So here, yes, I admit a little conflict of interest on the microphone, but I hope it's not strong enough to lead to some kind of criticism. Expenditure on financing national property reproduction programmes amounts to 2.2 billion. We need to talk about the financing of joint programmes of the Czech Republic and the European Union. Here for expenditure co-financed by the European Union budget, 4.5 billion is released, and an additional 800 million is released to co-financing from the state budget, so that the projects are really feasible. I've circled all the facilities that are currently involved in these projects, I've personally checked all those projects, I invite individual directors with their teams every week, and I want to make sure that the crown doesn't go to waste. I promised the Treasury Secretary on the government, and here I'd like to repeat that what we have in our budget will be spent effectively for the benefit of our patients. I really want to thank the directors of directly managed organizations at this point, because they are mainly concerned that cooperation has really shifted. I dare to praise not only Motol, Faculty Hospital Brno, Olomouc, Ostrava, but I will go so far as to praise the Royal Vinohrady in this place. I will now praise not only the General Faculty Hospital, Homolka and others, but Thomayerův Hospital. Of course, the Faculty Hospital Plzeň is very far away, where the projects that will be financed from these amounts, as well as in Hradec Králové, are really prepared perfectly, so my concerns are significantly close to zero. I would like to emphasise six items. The first concerns the valuation of salaries, including compulsory contributions paid by the employer, i.e. employees not by the Ministry of Health, but by all organisations belonging to the Ministry, and here the increase compared to this year's budget is CZK 134 million. Then I would like to mention the share of the state budget for projects co-financed by the European Union budget and the increase here is CZK 200 million compared to this year's budget. CZK 300 million more was allocated to the extraordinary subsidy programme for the provision of bed care. What I'm most excited about is specialization education. I have repeatedly said that my priority is to promote specialisation education. I was talking about four disciplines, the four fields are a practical doctor for adults, a practical physician for children and adolescents, a practical psychiatrist for children and a neurologist for children. We want to support these four areas intensively next year. The increase in the amount of education in this case was by 100 million, i.e. we will give another 100 million just to support these four fields except the sum that is already there. The aim will be to increase the availability of practical physicians for adults, practitioners for children and adolescents, pediatric psychiatrists and paediatric neurologists. The discussion took place with the professional companies, with the respective associations, I am glad that we have reached consensus, and it is also going on with the captains - he is unfortunately not here, and yet I thank him. Mr. Governor Vondrák has played a very positive role in this regard, like the Governor Kuba, and it is necessary to say it out loud. Finally, we have strengthened the air rescue money by CZK 75 million, which is needed because the air rescue service is important. Of course, there will be further discussions on the strategy for the next period when it will be necessary to decide how to proceed with the air service. I don't want to go into experiments, I want to cultivate the current state of affairs. I'm aware that helicopters specialized in paramedics have been dramatically removed today from the helicopters offered by the military. That's why we're going to have to go this way. After all, the side effect is to lower the price of heliports, because heliports for specialized helicopters are cheaper, they have lower load capacity, and for that reason I want us to present a plan in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate as quickly as possible, which will certainly not concern me, it will concern some future Minister of Health, but I must also think about what will happen after we say 2030. It's gonna affect me as a doctor or as a patient. Finally, the last amount, 37 million, is increased expenditure on energy. We want to support, above all, those organizational branches of the Ministry that thought of savings that they are trying to save, which are trying to behave well. I would like to highlight, for example, the sanitary station in the Plzeň Region and the regional hygiene in the Plzeň Region. We really want to allocate the funds there because we think we should stick to what is verified. After all - I apologize for saying it this way, but the Bible: Those who have evaluated the hryvnia should get further, and those who buried them should get well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u48	Thank you. In fact, from the point of view... Now I must say that he prefers to be registered in writing, so only if you agree with the Member - he prefers, so with a factual remark, Mr Julius Špičák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u49	Madam President, Minister, I see we live in very different worlds. I have to say that when I really look at health care in the field of practical functioning, I see dramatic problems, in particular, I would say the dramatic difference in availability essentially geographical, and therefore especially in individual regions. This is growing, and today there are county hospitals, and relatively large city hospitals, which absolutely with poverty maintain the basic operation at all. So this, I would say, is an absolutely fundamental problem, and this, as far as I know, is part of the area of so-called health funding programs, among other things distribution, yes, here I have it specifically written. Therefore, they are pediatricians, they are also practitioners, and here I see, for example, a significant reduction against 2021. In general, the Minister knows that for next year's budget reduction - he was here promising to give everyone a raise. Where it reduces, let it say to keep the budget, which is built in such a way that essentially the budget of the resort is lower than the previous years by tens of billions. [[16.30 hours]] There was a specific request for a pandemic program, and we did not receive the answer, or we received such an answer - such as a cover-up manoeuvre, a hundred-page elaborate. I always think I'm the only one who reads these elaborates, so when is there any concrete strategy to fight the pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u50	Thank you. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is also registered with the facts. At the same time, I'm handing over the meeting's management, and I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u51	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Health, I listened very carefully to your speeches, and since we had the opportunity to speak about a year ago, you know that I am from the Karlovy Vary Region, and when we talk about the availability and quality of health care, the Karlovy Vary Region is at its worst - in quotation marks - because it does not have a faculty hospital, and you told me a year ago that you are very committed and that you support our finally being a comprehensive oncological centre or possibly an oncological pavilion. At the moment I have no information about this at all, only a year ago - that was here, you told me - I was very happy about it and I wanted to ask if in the draft budget for 2023, how from the Rural Restoration programme if it was considered, at what stage, if it could be briefly told to me. And I would like to say that the really Karlovy Vary region in terms of availability and quality of health care is - if some people get into health problems, cancer and so on, we have a huge problem with treatment so that some hospitals can practically take us to these treatments. I've been seeing it all the time that these citizens are calling me, that if they are diagnosed with a disease like this, then they have a really big problem finding another hospital that, in a short period of time, would be able to deal with another problem and follow-up care or surgery. The second question is for the air rescue service, which is provided for the Karlovy Vary Region by the Army of the Czech Republic from Pilsen, from Lín, which is now so much down within the gigafactory, and I would like to say that we are again one of the regions that does not have air rescue coverage for 200,000 inhabitants. [[President: Time, Madame.]] I would like you to comment on these two matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u52	Thank you very much, and before I give the floor to the minister who signed up with priority rights, I'll make apologies. Mr Bělor apologizes from 15.30 to 17.00 for reasons of work, Mr Fridrich from 15.30 for health reasons, Mr Kubík from 15.30 for no reason, Mr Rais from 15.00 to 17.00 for reasons of work, Mr Richter from 15.30 to 19.00 for reasons of work, Mr Růžička from 18 to 21.00 for reasons of work, Mrs Urbanová Barbora from 9.48 to 13.30 for no reason, Mrs Válková from 15.30 for family reasons and Minister Rakušan from 17.00 for reasons of work. Minister, please have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I very much welcome the questions and any comments. There's one thing you need to say. Every type of hospital, and we probably all know that in this Chamber of Deputies, someone is in charge, and the one who runs it is responsible for its development, financing and personnel policy. Private hospitals run private entities, city hospitals, county hospitals. The regions have different strategies, some have privatized part of the hospitals, here the Karlovy Vary Region at a certain time got rid of the Sokolov hospital. I don't think it's a happy move, but it was a step that the county decided to take, the leadership of the region. The management of the region did not solve, I would say twenty years, the problem with the air rescue service, did not solve the problem with the complex centre for twenty years, and not even my previous ministers, and that was a lot of them, in the last year five, so that they would somehow deal with it, I did not notice, at least they didn't leave any materials at the Ministry. Sadly, they were from different political parties. I don't want to comment, everyone did the job as best they could, as well as the work is best done by individual officials, individual mayors, hospital directors, and some of them do it perfectly, they have enough doctors, they have enough employees, they develop those hospitals, some of them do it worse, and some of them do it very badly, and those hospitals are going to die. That's just the way it is, but it's really a problem for those who are the founders of hospitals if they don't do long-term conceptual personnel policy. And as former head of the Academic Senate, the Association of Academic Chambers I was surprised that the first one who turned to the academic senators and medical faculty parties supporting students to return to their facilities, oddly enough they were not regions, there were no cities, but it was a private entity, it was Agel. The first one started paying young doctors to get into his facility. Then some regions joined, it is necessary to praise the region of Vysočina, which he created for students from Vysočina studying at medical faculties an excellent program to return to his hospitals. Some regions didn't do it. However, I'm not the governor, I'm not the mayor, I'm not the mayor, and I can help with the concept as much as I can, and that's what I'm gonna do. In the Karlovy Vary Region, the Oncological Society and Professor Fínek suggested what the concept of a complex oncological centre should look like. [[Czech]] If you ask the Members of the Karlovy Vary Region who were there, either from ODS or from STAN, a colleague of the Kuchař was there too, then you will find that the whole problem is that Dr. März has a different idea than he has, and I will name it here before he has an oncological society other than Professor Fínek. Yes, in the budget, 350 million are allocated to the Karlovy Vary Region to complete the oncology centre if the contract is as proposed by the Comprehensive Oncological Centre in Pilsen plus as proposed by the oncological society. If it's what local stakeholders want it to be, it won't be part of the complex centers, and I'm afraid I'm gonna have to allocate the money elsewhere. I'm still ready to put the money in the Karlovy Vary Region, strengthen the linear accelerators, tie it up, too, so that central treatment can be applied under the supervision of Professor Fínek's team, and here it is purely up to the decision of the health management of the region. I've dealt with Mr. Governor personally. Anyway, I've personally dealt with the Chief of Staff and the Chief of Ambulance about the availability that's been there for a long time, so far, no one's dealt with it. We have several plans to reach a 20-minute range across the region, and we have finally agreed to do more negotiations in the presence of some Members and Senators, in the presence of regional leadership, ambulances, in the presence of military representatives, and I would also like to invite those who have private air services. This solution has a short-term option, which would mean moving one of the existing bases closer to the Karlovy Vary Region borders, it is not so simple, and of course it has a long-term option, which we think about in the contract that will have to be signed, about providing rescue services in the horizon when the existing one expires. And here we are very intensively considering building another rescue station in this very region, but that is, of course, another horizon. Then it's the third thing that has to do with it, and that's border cooperation. We agreed that on the occasion of the opening of a project in Pilsen, we would meet with the Minister of Health of Bavaria and discuss whether some of the problems could be solved by the Bavarian Party, because there is a border area adjacent to Germany. That means I'm dealing with both of these problems, the first one has a fixed amount in the budget, the second one is a consensus that must occur between the regional leadership, the quick one, or the head of their ambulances and air service operators, because if there is no agreement, it is not possible in the hands of the Ministry to order this rather than the moment we sign a new contract, which the paramedics in our ranks know very well. If I were able to be an autocrat, we are in a democratic society, I am aware of it and I appreciate it very much, and there are some things that can be done other than by agreement and by consensus, and this is one of them. [[16.40 hours]] As far as the availability of doctors is concerned, we've really raised the budget, I've said it here, and that budget is about to address the inaccessibility of pediatricians, adult doctors, child neurologists and child psychiatrists. I consider it a big mistake - and here I am critical - that my predecessors - unfortunately, unfortunately - did not finance those fields where doctors in the field are missing, which patients are complaining about most, but they financed the disciplines according to some scheme, which I do not fully understand, which changed every two years and was probably not entirely based on the data of Professor Dušek and insurance companies and some network of availability. We have agreed with the association and we have also dragged in four regions - Vysočina, Moravian-Silesian and other regions, where the availability is the worst, the Karlovy Vary Region, and there we would like to allocate money, including the 100 million we have raised, it is an increase of virtually 20 percent, 25 percent, by which we have increased the money for education. I'd like to say yes, the Ministry's budget is lower, but the expenses we won't have to have. We managed to negotiate contracts by not having to buy vaccines from the state budget, which we will then pour out and dispose of, which I did this year, it cost me several billion, and these are the billions that I don't have in the budget. I'm not going to buy unnecessary vaccines from the state budget, I'm not going to dispose of them, which is why I could reduce the amount of expenses. These expenses just won't be. On the other hand, the amount of revenue has decreased, because we have really built what we want and we have to inoculate people. And once again, what the previous ministers were doing - and it was not their fault, I was completely aware of it, it was simply a situation that was hectic - they had to respond to it regardless of whether it was Adam Vojtěch, whether it was the weekly Minister Prymula, or then it was the short-term ministers, whether it was my colleague Professor Blatný or Professor Arenberger, and then again Adam Vojtěch - they were simply in a situation where they had to respond to some completely unpredictable matter, as we respond to the war in Ukraine and the risks associated with it. They responded to another war, a war with a deadly virus, and little valid, they had to take some measures, which then proved backwards as wasting money from the state budget, but that was certainly not their fault. Today I have a clear strategy, as far as the covid goes, I have said that repeatedly, I have informed the House, the Health Committee. We're following the strategy, the results show it was good. Many of you may recall criticizing me for some of the steps I took early in the year, but those steps proved very correct, including letting the children go to the mountains, including not introducing mandatory vaccinations. Let us see what happened in Austria and what is the result of the compulsory vaccination in Austria. It's a good thing we didn't do it. But of course, I'm not criticizing it. Of course, at the time the decisions were made, it might have seemed like a good idea. We also certainly said that the pandemic law would be something that would not be necessary, that we only have it in reserve, and that we have done so. This means, if we clear the Ministry of Health's income and expenditure on vaccine items, the Ministry of Health's budget is higher on science, education support, support for pediatricians and practitioners. In all these items, it is higher than the original budget approved by the previous government for this year. Well, that's based on the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u54	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u55	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would like to thank you for the open, fair answer, because I have to say that we really do not have any information about this oncological complex centre, and I must say that the information that you have just told us here is definitely going to be discussed with my colleague Renata Oulehlová right away, because I am convinced that losing this project as such is very crucial for our region. So thank you very much for that. And about the air rescue service. Mr. Minister, for my management, I say that many things have gone well - D6, the removal of the highway, the Imperial Spa and so on. And the only thing that didn't work is the air rescue. I have to say, it's been dealt with. I'm sure Jirka Mašek will talk about it many times. And what bothers me most is that when the meeting took place in the government, where the decision of the Minister of Health was already made - yes, the Karlovy Vary Region has no coverage, the Minister of Defence also agreed, it was only up to the Chief of Staff who said that he had no people and that it would not be relocated from Bechyně to the Karlovy Vary Region. I just think it's very bad. But my question was that if Plzeň - Lína had ended, and I think that providing air rescue services to the Army of the Czech Republic was for us... we very much appreciate that we have the armies - so what will be practically afterwards, what will happen? [[air service]] Yes, you're talking about private companies, but I just think the Army of the Czech Republic should have priority right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u56	Thank you. Next in line, Mr Mašek, Minister Stanjura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond quickly to some of the things that have fallen, namely my colleague Vildumetzová. In the past, it was really about providing air rescue services from the Karlovy Vary Region, and it should have been in cooperation with the army, with the Lins, who would have a second crew there. It is possible to return to this, of course, in the future, but we have since last year, for this government and for the next six years, a total air rescue contract, and it is a mix of rescue services of state operators and private operators. On the subject of the very Lingerie, which is now a lot to talk about, the cancellation of the airport, it could be a big problem and it needs to be addressed because the service should be maintained. Once it was cancelled in Linz, then it was going back and it cost several hundred million crowns, so it is necessary to work with it in future budgets. And as for the minister, who talked about the fact that the regions basically caused themselves to do so - those regions caused themselves to do so with the hospitals because they were in a poor economic environment, and this has changed fundamentally, because the regions with the budgetary determination of taxes have received much more money, they can invest in hospitals and they can re-invest in hospitals and they can use grant programs to drag doctors and faculties. Our Minister Vojtěch raised 15 percent of the students admitted to medical schools, I would like to stress that here, but the process, doctors know, takes about ten years for a doctor to be fully involved in the process. So the things that have been done here are quite a lot. To compare the budgets of the Ministry of Health last year and today, thanks to the covido measures in terms of the purchase of vaccines, their eventual disposal, medicines and their disposal and so on, but I want to say that this is a European-wide level. Now it's all over Europe, why it was purchased for every citizen, like ten vials of vaccines. So let's see what this is going to be like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u58	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you very much. Another comment will be made by Minister Stanjura, Mr Brázdil will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u59	Just in response to the last two speeches, I want to say clearly: if a gigafactory investment is made, it does not make it impossible for the air rescue service to function, it does not exclude, it is expected that it will remain there if there is no other solution, for example. But there's no reason for the air rescue service to be terminated there because of a potential investment in gigafactory. And the second thing - for Mr Mašek, through you. The Minister of Health did not blame past ministers, he only responded when another colleague criticized the Minister for having a lower budget. He logically stated, and said himself that the former ministers couldn't because we won't buy vaccines, so we have to automatically count it down, because the expenditure just won't be, and then we can compare the amount of the budget, and there's a budget higher than last year. That was the only thing. That was not criticism, even Minister Válek said it was everywhere in Europe. But logically, if there is no expenditure, it will fall out of the budget, and because it was not a small amount, it is quite a rapid reduction in the compulsory expenditure of this chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u60	Another comment will be made by Mr Brázdil. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u61	Thank you for the floor. I know we should be talking about finance, money, but it's not gonna give me the facts. Minister, as you thanked all the paramedics, I have to thank you, too, because you're the one who's always talking about how the transformation of ambulances should be completed. If you could do that so that the rescue services in our Republic are not really 14 times different, but they were state, you will save huge money and the dissatisfaction of people across the Republic. Each ambulance makes them feel cheated because somewhere they have money like that, somewhere they're not. If you can do this, the paramedics will give you a round of applause. And I don't want to talk about the fact that money isn't enough, there's always not enough money. You know that, in health care we all want to be healthy. But the fact that we have, like we have before prevention, you said, "You, members of the board, keep an eye on the prevention fund so people can walk." Yeah, but you know, people usually go to prevention when they're as good as they are when they see the meaning of life, when they want to be in the world for a long time and they want to be happy, so they think about their future. But now the situation in our republic is quite gloomy. And you know, even during covid, they didn't go to prevention, and even now they probably won't be able to walk. It's not - it's not full of staff, it's not motivation. It takes at least for the curative. People who, those medical workers, the nurses, they, they're falling on their mouths today. I wish to see what they look like on urgent income, so money will always be small. But please, at least thank you for the ambulance. Think about it, I'm rooting for you. I'd be happy to help you with that, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u62	Thank you, and before we go back to the general debate, I will make further apologies. Mrs Balaštíková apologizes from 16 to 19.30 for working reasons, Mr Jáč from 16.30 for family reasons, Mr Stržínek from 18 a.m. for work reasons, Prime Minister Fiala from 17 a.m. to 20 a.m. for work reasons and Minister Bartoš from 16.30 for work reasons. And we are returning to the general debate to which Mr Nacher is signed up. However, I do not see him in the hall, I write to myself absent, and the next is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Babka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u63	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to comment on the draft State budget for 2023, in particular from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior. I listened carefully to Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. He's not here right now, maybe he's watching us in an office, because he said he'd definitely answer questions that affect the Home Office. We, of course, have now received the skeleton of the budget and so-called chapters 314, where we can see that there is an increase of approximately CZK 4 billion compared to 2022. We will certainly ask specific questions about the Security Committee, where we assume that many of these things will be more emasculated, because, as we have received information, some of the chapter notebooks, which may just be affecting the Ministry of the Interior, will only be delivered to us. And there it is necessary to study all things in detail in some way and ask about them. But I have to say, if we look at this right now with the optics of inflation, if we look at it with the optics, that from 1. 9. it has increased to firefighters and police officers who are so-called civil servants, that is, those who are not in uniform, when we look at the budget, so at this point in time, it does not seem to us that the funds are contained there and that there would be enough of them within the 10% increase. But maybe on the Security Committee, they're gonna make it harder, and they're gonna say that the funds are really there. I was very surprised that today, when the Home Secretary was performing here, he said that policemen and firemen were rewarded. Well, I don't know, I talk to them all the time, and I have feedback, if 100 million to pay policemen and firemen is enough. And I keep saying that, we all know how many cops and firefighters we have, so if I divide it by that amount, per cop and firefighter, that's $2,600. So I do not think that there is an adequate reward for what they are doing in crisis situations, whether it be a covid, whether it be a refugee crisis, whether it be Hřensko, whether it be illegal migration now and so on. At the same time - and I was surprised that the Minister here spoke about the basic registers and said that it is necessary to invest large funds in these registers, because it is neglected from the years past - and with this I would like to ask about the Digital Information Agency, which is to be established from 1 January 2023, and this agency has, of course, to go to it also management of the basic registers. So who's gonna invest it? Is it going to be the new agency, or is it going to be the Home Office? My question is: where are the funds for the establishment of the Digital Information Agency? Where are they? Are they in the Home Office chapter today, or are they somewhere else? Question two: the Minister of the Interior said that there will be a reduction in the state of officials by 200 seats. Did he mean those officials who go to the Digital Information Agency, which is supposed to be 190 and the new 125 are supposed to be others? Does that mean the Digital Information Agency is supposed to have 315 people? Did he mean that, to this day, the employees at the Ministry of the Interior who are to be transferred to this Digital Information Agency do not know anything to this day? He keeps turning to both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Local Development that no one has discussed it with the union organization, that these people do not know until now if the transformation will occur, if it will be from January 1st, who will it concern? Of course, we only know that it should be the main architect's department, the eGovernment Department, the eGovernment Department of the Cloud and the Management of the Basic Registers. So what I'm asking is, if we're performing here, that we're going to be giving money and that it's very important - yes, the management of basic registers is one of the most important technologies in the public administration, and we're going to hand it over and we're going to create an agency? Why can't it be at the Home Office, why can't the Home Secretary run it? Can somebody explain this to me? And may I ask, are we sure these people are going to the Digital Information Agency? We have so many IT specialists? We all know who we work in cities, towns and regions, that these people are not, and it is very hard to get and pay. And what we're risking now is that what works at the Home Office -- I don't understand the look at it, because if I was the Home Secretary, in quotes, I'd be fighting to keep it at my resort. I would never do that to go to the establishment... even competently. If the Digital Information Agency, who will represent it, who will represent it within the government and in all things? And I always say and I take the view that all these things are always the best when they're in ministries. Like when I ran the county - not to put something into some organizations, because the best control, the best supervision is when it's under the county or under the ministry. I'm 100% convinced of that. So I don't know if the 200 places are affected by the people who are supposed to go to the Digital Information Agency. And I'm surprised it's the end of October today, and in practically two months it should be, and no one knows anything. I think that the insecurity of the people at the Ministry of the Interior, and not to negotiate with the trade union organization at the Ministry of the Interior, did not deal with those people, or perhaps some meetings took place marginally there - I read all the answers from the Minister for Regional Development, but in no way convinced me and convinced the president of the trade union organization, because they wrote another letter constantly saying that this step is very wrong, it is ill-advised, undisputed, and it can really have a great impact on the digitalisation of the public administration. [[17,00 hours]] Now, of course, letters are coming for data boxes. You must have noticed today as Members that there is already a big wave of ill-fault from the business sector, where it is an obligation from 1 January that entrepreneurs will have to have, or legal persons will have to be obliged to set up a data box. The Minister will come here, or, as we approve here in the legislative process, the establishment of a new Digital Information Agency, so he will just come up with the amendment not to concern individuals. And even here I would like to ask, because of course it has to do with this, because today everyone has the opportunity to set up a data box, it can not be denied to you, but if the obligation occurs, it is clear that it will also certainly have some increased impact within the department of the interior, not to mention that it will also have effects on the Czech Post, because it is clear that if all entrepreneurs have data boxes, then communication will be done only through data boxes. I'm not saying it's wrong, I'm sure it's good. I remember when the eRecipe was approved here, what a huge resentment it was to him, and there was pressure to not approve at the time. And I also remember when Mr. Adam and I finally agreed to put in a transitional provision for two years here with the Minister of Health, which means that everyone had to set it up within two years. [[Vojtěch?]] That's probably how I'd proceed with data boxes, even at the time we're at today, so that we don't transfer other responsibilities. And we're all happy today that we have eRecipe and we can't even imagine it being any more, even in covid time and so on. So I think that the step and the path is right, but I'm sure I'd like to think about some provisions and some time when I still have to put in place that obligation. Another thing about the Ministry of Interior's budget: we are really concerned that the 10% increase is not included in the full amount for both police officers, that is to say, members of staff, as well as civil servants, the same for firefighters. So far, we see in the draft budget that there should be more funding for investment, but we are concerned that there will not be enough funds for operation. But again, I'm saying that these are all the things that we're going to ask in detail about the Security Committee. What I really have to say is that the Home Secretary - and I have to commend him on that - is going to the Security Committee. I know that in the past not all ministers certainly attended those committees, which means that they are present, responding to questions and trying to give us the answers in some way. And the last thing I would like to say, and this would be particularly affecting at the moment, not the interior resort, but I would also like to mention here within the Karlovy Vary Region and the gigafactory project, which is supposed to be in the Plzeň Region. Today, when the Minister of Finance appeared here, he said that a number of funds go to structurally affected regions - Ústecký, Moravian-Silesian and Karlovarsky, but I... everyone knows that these regions need the most help, but at the first opportunity all ministers, because there is no one in the Karlovy Vary Region, everyone will forget it. And now, if we look at the Just Transition Fund about the transformation of the region, the Karlovy Vary Region got 6.2 billion out of the pie and gigafactory to the Pilsen Region, and the Pilsen Region is in a completely different way than Karlovy Vary's, and we could talk about employees and so on about GDP, so he gets a state subsidy of 9 billion - 9 billion within the gigafactory! And when I look at it today and see it, the gigafactory will be in the Plzeň Region, in the Ústí Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, and the Karlovy Vary Region, which has the land, has everything ready and is as it is, and needs the most help, it will not have any such investment incentive. I simply take the view that if an investor comes to the Czech Republic, he should first be directed to structurally affected regions and that state investment and state aid should also be directed there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u64	Thank you, the next one will be Mr Babka and Mr Kettner will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u65	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Minister, allow me, on behalf of our shadow Minister for Culture, Jermanová focus on the budget chapter of the Ministry of Culture. When we start with the facts from the government's statement, the government promises to increase the share of spending on culture to 1% of the state budget, without compensation to the churches. The Ministry of Culture budget for 2023 is planned for CZK 18,5 billion, which is roughly 2 billion more than the revised assumption for this year. With this planned budget, we are below 0,8 percent of the state's expenditure. This, in itself, is significantly less than what the government promised, and the culture budget, as well as the overall budget, has a lot of 'but'. The first "but" is the reality of this budget, and that is what my colleagues, especially President Alena Schillerová, have been talking about here, because today we can hardly believe that this budget, as the Ministry of Finance has drawn it up, will become a reality. And how do we know from this year where it will be cut first? We've just seen that culture is the main thing to do. We are also assuming an increase in this budget for this reason, and we will be happy if there is no less money in the resort than this year. The second "but" is that the 2 billion crowns that the Ministry of Culture chapter has improved on are actually a trick. It is about money from European money, namely from the National Recovery Plan, so the theatres, orchestras, local monuments and festivals will not really help this increase. Of course, it's a good thing that the extra 2 billion are there, but the National Recovery Plan was prepared by the previous government, and if it wasn't for that, today has nothing to give away. So I want to know which way this money will go. From what the Minister of Culture says, we can kind of suspect that money will go to cultural infrastructure in the regions. Perhaps it would be time for more concrete and cultural organisations to prepare for these challenges in time and so money could be invested. I can also mention that, for example, the Ministry of Culture's contribution organisations will receive even 400 million less this year. [[17.10 hours]] The third "but" belongs to inflation. The annual consumer price index is around 20 percent and the increase in the chapter for culture is 10 percent, so the culture really gets less. The fourth "but" concerns the salaries of employees in culture. They belong to the lowest ones in the long term, or rather to the lowest ones in the long term. These are students qualified in the field, who are often irreplaceable, people who want to and must constantly educate and grow professionally. Yet they have salaries that are far below average. If we want to have a cashier in Lidl with university diplomas and deep expertise, for example in the field of history, then we can afford to continue reducing real wages in culture. Yes, public-money workers added 10 percent in the culture sector, but again, inflation was around 20 percent year on year in September, and people's real wages fell by another 10 percent. And plus, they probably don't get paid, like I said, a raise in the chapter of the Ministry of Culture doesn't concern salaries, but there's a lot more. The Minister of Culture assumes that cultural institutions are being saved. Of course, it can only be saved where it is scattered. But who knows the background of cultural events in our country knows that money was definitely not thrown out of the window even in the past. In this context, I cannot mention energy costs. Although it is nice that prices for cultural institutions will be upset - and "perhaps" I say because one never knows in this government until the last moment - so the government price ceiling is multiplied by the price that cultural institutions paid a year ago, and there is no way to maneuver significantly for them. For example, the Minister of Culture might have known his own about the warming of the monuments. Covering them with polystyrene or clogging them with plastic windows is certainly not as easy as for example in apartment buildings or administrative buildings. And it would probably not be the most sensitive measure, because exhibits often require a specific environment, a stable temperature, humidity, which, of course, costs something. Simply, energy savings cannot be achieved as easily as elsewhere in the case of a number of cultural institutions. So even if we believed a government fairy tale about her budget, from a cultural point of view, it is a budget that is wrong from the perspective of the Ministry of Culture. When the government discovers - or even when I mention the numbers: the contribution organizations, as I said, received 400 million less, and even the wages in the cultural sector are not enough - that it flows into its shoes in terms of the overall budget, we assume that it will heal again in culture, and it will continue to suffer. It is more than clear that culture is certainly not a priority for this government and that it will be sucked out and devastated in spite of all the proclamations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u66	Thank you. Mr Kettner will be next in line, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not gonna be here long, I'm not gonna stretch it out, obviously I'm gonna focus on education again, I'm not gonna surprise that. My proposal to increase ONIV has not been approved. I have noted the Minister's statement that, of course, we will try to return the 1 billion in some way to regional education. But whoa, if you take a good look at the budget, you find that when it comes to ONIV, when you do the math, we're over minus 800 million. So if we're going to work on some billion, it's actually not going to be some increase, it's going to go back, but it's essentially just going to be an attempt to zero out a minus item. In general, I see this very critically in the field of education. We want them more and more, and more and more, and more and more, to make demands on what those teachers have to do, what they're in charge of. As they say, classic - for little money a lot of music. The music is getting more and less and less and less and less. The situation in education was critical, but for me I have to say that it has stabilized. In previous years, not that it was possible to get rich and go on holiday to the Canaries regularly every year, but it was already a decent salary and stabilized the situation regarding teachers in schools, except, of course, those specialized areas such as physics, chemistry and so on. Unfortunately, all the steps the government is taking now are against her own programming statement. Here they guaranteed some guaranteed salary for teachers, the 130 percent, and in their essence they're doing all of the steps so that it just doesn't happen. As a result, we're gonna get back a few years in that it's gonna stop being lucrative to those teachers again. When you look at the statistics, we have a huge increase in the percentage of graduates of teaching faculties who wanted to stay in the field. I guarantee you, we're going back to those slim percentages that we moved on to some ten years ago. Well, I would definitely be up for it... let's realize that I've said this here several times, we're investing in our future, into our own children. And as far as teachers are concerned, I've noticed another one, yes, to stop paying extras for the hours to be paid - another real drop in teacher's wages. If we actually take money from ONIVEK - yes, it is said that the first two days of sickness will not be paid from the other non-investment expenses, but this is only at the stage of negotiations - so real wages will actually fall and it will be a problem. And where do you get the money for that? When you look in detail, there is such a variety of investments where - no matter how much I try - I try in vain to come up with some positive contribution for the citizens of the Czech Republic. As far as the oversized administration of directors is concerned, we have a plan here to train them on how to delegate work. Is that what we're giving money for? For something that every regular school head of study does a long time ago and normally? In the meantime, when we did that, we increased the direct teaching activity to the directors who were just taking the job from the directors, as a result, they're going to give it back to the directors. Okay, so we're gonna train them beautifully in something they already know, if they're legal, and then we're gonna train them. Then who will they delegate it to? Next, another waste of money. We have a promotional campaign, we are trying to convince the citizens of the Czech Republic how great the European Union is. On TVs, I am constantly watched as we are running Europe, yet every person who knows things knows that the Presidency is more of a symbolic act. It is certainly not that we are now a mover in Europe's history. We will take a loan of 10 billion, the citizens of the Czech Republic will guarantee it, the citizens of the Czech Republic will repay it, but the citizens of another state will benefit from it. And now he's still debatable - really citizens? The question is how much of this help will actually reach ordinary citizens. So for me, other and other cuts in education are unacceptable given the future of our state, and I believe that when we look at where the money goes within that budget, we will definitely find items that are so-called necessary in terms of the real life of the citizens of the Czech Republic. It doesn't bring anything to these citizens, and I definitely think that the funds would be found to stabilise education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u68	Thank you. Mr Balaš, Minister of Education, applied with priority rights. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Member for the support of education... [[He's turning to the President.]] by your means, and I think I agree in some cases. When it comes to the assistance, helping the directors, we're starting to figure out, when piloting, that they really appreciate it, that it helps them. We're getting feedback on what's conceptual, and we can start dealing with it much, much more efficiently, so I wouldn't be overreacting. The project is not so bad, it will also be true of European Union money, and of course it is important to set priorities not only in general but also in education. And let's hope we do. [[17.20 hours]] Otherwise, as far as teachers' salaries are concerned, I hope that this will not just be a declaration, because - and it depends on us, as I say, we have not even gotten to the first reading of the Education Worker Act, and I think that is also something that is hanging on. If we can commit ourselves to the remuneration that's embedded there, I think it'll be an interesting job. But we also have to solve another problem in order to have someone to teach, and that is the question of increasing the budget or finding funding for universities, so that the real salaries in higher education for assistants are not significantly lower than those in secondary and primary schools, and I think that this system works as a whole. It is not possible to rip out the individual sub-issues of education, it needs to be dealt with as a whole and systematically. So thank you, let's hope we find the means. And as far as priorities are concerned, of course, we are trying to find and formulate what is more important and what is less, but I think that all of us - and probably all of us are interested in having high-quality education and that the Czech Republic should find a way to prosperity. You can't do this without an education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u69	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Juchelek, I shall make another apology. Mrs Dražilová has been apologizing since 17.30 for work reasons. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Juchelka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today at the first reading of the state budget for 2023 and I would say that the state budget is, of course, a game of numbers, expenditures and revenue, but the state budget also says a lot about ourselves, every citizen, our government, all of us here in the Chamber of Deputies. It is a matter I would say even to some extent of value and some moral anchoring of all of us, i.e. the people, the citizens who live here. I'm sure it's also about the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs department, and I'll get to that one step at a time. The expenditure of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs will not be moderated in the next year, in 2023, on the contrary, they will grow. According to the current draft amendment on the state budget, expenditure on social support, pensions and other forms of social security will be increased by CZK 115.3 billion next year compared to the current budget for this year. In total, the MPSV is expected to manage almost 900 billion crowns. If this trend, as in this year and in previous years, continues to increase the Ministry's budget, for example, because of the financing of social services or amendments like this year, it can be assumed that in the next year, they will even exceed a trillion-billion-dollar! - the border. It must be said that our social system is swelling and massive, and I think we have a whole series of decisions to take on what agendas to reform and how to make the work of our entire social system more effective and hard to control. However, I have not noticed any of this from the point of view of legislation within the agenda of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In 2022, and we will not examine why, it was just a need for unemployment, and this was an additional 900 million amendment, and yet our unemployment is one of the lowest in Europe and we have 300,000 job vacancies. Another discrepancy, for example, is that we have 12,000 foster parents, at least 12,000 children who need a surrogate because their own parents will not take care of them. It costs billions of crowns a year, but we spend a minimum on expanding and strengthening parental competences, education in this area and so on. Only 150 million crowns are coming from the budget of the MPSV in support of the pro-family policy and family stabilization. I will just point out that out of the 7 billion amendment - this year in the amendment to the Act on the State Budget - Minister Jurečka went to foster CZK 550 million this year. The benefits of state social support and foster care have an item that exceeds 61 billion. They are, of course, child allowance, parental allowance, funeral allowance, maternity allowance, housing allowance. But the biggest item is pension expenditure - CZK 656 billion. This amount will certainly not go down in the future. This government knows that there is a need for pension reform, and I hope that after the last unfortunate comments, it is preparing for it. It is necessary not for current seniors, which, of course, will no longer be affected by reform, but for our generation to know where we stand and how we will have it in the future. As opposition, we certainly want to be in this and we will help. You can't save money on seniors, we all know that, there's no place to save money on disabled people. Social peace between the healthy and the sick, between the young and the old, and so on, of course, must continue. But where it lacks meaning, there is a social reconciliation between healthy and healthy. Where we miss the payments in the gray economy, we need work black. Those receiving benefits often work. Those who look like singles often live with a housewife. Those who fail to raise a child tend to their grandchildren as foster parents. We can't control our social system enough. Why is that? We have underfunded, for example, the labour offices that have these controls in their minds. During the past few months, we have put so much agenda on them that employees are disgusted to leave, delaying benefits payments, and simply not having time to check. I would expect that to be reflected in the budget for 2023. There is CZK 9.4 billion for employees' salaries, and it really should be increased, because starting as an official with a university at the employment office with 21 to 23,000, so it really isn't a win. Not to mention, of course, the Czech Social Security Administration, not to mention how some politicians are not speaking very nicely about state workers and officials, which we really need at the moment, and we need to appreciate at this very moment when we are experiencing a crisis on all possible fronts. If we sum this up so as not to be long, today chapter 313 of the state budget reflects the crisis situation. The government is trying to reach the cause of expensive energy prices through the social system, instead of solving the cause itself, and it probably won't be over. If we do not address the cause of expensive energy, we will once again increase the existential and living minimum, once again solve child allowances, recalculate the normative housing costs, and thus the contribution to housing thanks to high inflation and expensiveness, we will have to extraordinarily valorize pensions. Of course, I do not wish to, but I do not know with this government, because the last week and the steps of this government have shown that even she does not know how to get out of this hamster run. So as far as the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is concerned, of course, the budget is increased in many chapters, but, as I said in the introduction, the budget is not just a game of numbers, it is also in some way a mirror of what we have values and where we want to go in the future in some way. And I firmly believe that what will happen in the future at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will, on the contrary, underline, support and strengthen our values in some way. This means that we must not lose any control at all of how we will finance our ongoing pension system, how we will finance the disabled, but we really should focus, and it may hurt us a lot - not just us, all of us, of course - here in the House, but also inside our society, to say this massive and really, really, very much, over-the-counter social system within the future of other generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u71	Mr Hendrych is now registered with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I would just add perhaps something that my previous speaker, Mr Juchelka, said here. When I studied the state budget, I must appreciate that 4 billion were increased in the chapter on housing contributions. That's not what my previous speaker said, and I think it's important information. For that I appreciate the Ministry wanting to add to this item, it's my favorite theme because it's an instrument that doesn't work, we're still talking about it here and I'm going to continue to do it. However, I think it's important that things take a little different from today. It is good that there is advertising in the subway, in the railway station that they receive potential authorizations, receive emails and so on, but what I lack there is some higher activity of social workers of cities and municipalities, and in that I think there are considerable reserves, because I think that only writings and the subsequent intensive accompanying needed to be able to take care of the dose will not go any further. And then I have a factual point in the direction of Professor Balaš, who has spoken here twice today about the fact that it would be good to set salaries in higher education so that assistants in higher education do not take less than teachers in secondary and primary schools. I agree with this because I come from a higher education environment, but I was just wondering if he could give a little hint of how he wanted to do it, because it's not a very simple matter. There are contractual wages, not salaries, and it needs to be dealt with in some way systemically, so you can just say something closer, maybe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u73	Thank you. The Minister of the Rakušan will now speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I apologize to you, Mr Metnar, who has already set off to the speaker's counter, but I promised my colleague Vildumetzová behind the scenes that we will not fight today, just to respond in a matter of fact, and that we will leave the debate in detail for the Security Committee, where we will certainly discuss the chapters as such. But there have been several sentences here, where I would first of all like to refute - and, through the Vice-President, you are right, I was in the office as soon as I heard your sound voice, I immediately left the other work and took notes, so I know exactly what was said in your speech. Firstly, please, let us not send - and I think this is common, let's say, common will and perhaps the wishes of both the government and the opposition - some signals of nervousness to the police or firefighter public. I guarantee you! that the funds are prepared to increase the salaries of police officers and firefighters by 10 percent since January, as the government has committed, as agreed with the trade union to negotiate tripartite. By the way, it was the first agreement that we made to the satisfaction of the trade unionists at the tripartite meeting, i.e. an increase in funds, an increase in salaries for firefighters and police officers since January, and so it will simply be, and the funds for that are, of course, ready in the budget. Another thing that fell here was a specific question of where the money is for neglected basic registers. Money for neglected basic registers is still in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, there are 700 million crowns allocated to the operation and maintenance of the operation itself and 300 million crowns allocated to the hardware, which, of course, needs to be changed in the case of basic registers from the grunt so that their safety and operation can be maintained. In the case of the creation of a Digital Agency, which is another thing that we are discussing here, there will certainly be a transfer of these funds to the place where the basic registers will be managed. That's a pretty logical and simple operation, so don't worry, we remembered that money in the budget and the government approved it. Another specific question that was raised in your speech was whether the 200 seats at the Ministry of the Interior, where the cancellation will take place, are the places to be demolished by the Digital Agency. No, it's not those places, it's different places, and the Ministry of the Interior sets an example and fills a government statement, which means that we're really reducing the number of officials - it's not even just vacant places, it's also really existing places that are meant to be canceled after some revision of the agenda. This means that really in the Ministry of the Interior there will be a drop of 200 jobs from next year around, please do not catch me per unit, it will be precisely defined in the systemization that the government will only approve, but these are not employees who should be delimited. And then I guess the debate about the Digital Agency now. We spoke to the employees repeatedly, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, who has digitalisation under him, had two meetings, I think, just during the last month. Of course, negotiations with the union organization will continue. It is natural that when a systemic change is about to happen, it certainly attracts attention, and it is right that negotiations will take place, and of course it is logical that trade unions take a position on this. But please, let's not talk about whether or not the Home Secretary should fight for where it's headed, not digitalisation. There is a government programming statement that clearly defines the vice-premiere function for digitization with the management competence of these processes, and it is logical that it also needs some tools, means. We can argue about this, but it's just a legitimate decision by this government, and I'm convinced that the system will function as such. Those are probably the most important things. Maybe one more comment. You're still calculating CZK 2,000 per police officer. Overtime hours have been paid as they are normally paid for an emergency to all police officers who have served overtime hours, that is a pretty simple principle, and here together in the Chamber of Deputies, we have approved the fees to firefighters, primarily but also to police officers for their intervention in Hřensko, both professional and voluntary. These appropriations were also reimbursed at the approved level. As far as the stabilization bonus is concerned, it is within the police and will continue to be paid, only the principle changes a little bit, we are a little bit inclined from the locality of the reimbursement of the stabilization supplement to the generational approach, that is, to stabilize in quotation marks members of the Police of the Czech Republic who are at the most prospective age, have something to do, have experience, they are professionals, and would be in danger of leaving behind the vision of a service outside the Police of the Czech Republic. We are primarily trying to stabilize this group of police officers to stay in the police force. It is the concept of a police president that I agree with, and this will be applied in the coming years. At the same time, we are trying a little bit to change the curve on paylines in individual grades so that the starting salary of a police officer in the Czech Republic begins with a threesome, and the work at the start has become competitive within the current environment and the level set. So much in general, colleague, I'd save the rest and detail for the Security Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u75	Thank you. Your performance brought up three factual points. First Mr Vomáčka, Mrs Vildumetzová will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u76	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I am responding to the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Juchelka, through the President. I would like to stress his beautiful sentence here, and that the social system is swell and massive, and I thought that Mr Juchelka, a colleague, through the President, would do a little laundry for the government's shirt and say what the government should do about it, but he, besides saying that there is a need to reform pensions, began to talk about where there is a need to add them everywhere. So I was a little embarrassed there, because if we criticize that the social system is swelling and massive and soon it will be said, And let's add over there and over there, I don't think it's a solution, and I think my colleague missed his opportunity to profil with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u77	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Ryba, will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u78	Thank you for the floor. I certainly thank the Minister of the Interior for his comments, although some of these things certainly did not satisfy me, because if the Digital Information Agency is to be created on 1 January 2023 and we have an end of October, I think that it is very irresponsible to those people and all the things that are connected with it, and if anyone is even aware of what is to happen. And you told me exactly that you have 700 million in basic registers in your budget today, but if the Digital Information Agency is created, there's probably going to be some change in the budget, there's going to be a budget measure, and I think it's going to be a huge mess, that it's going to be a lot of problems, and it can, of course, also bring people to the Digital Information Agency that aren't going to go away, we're going to lose those IT specialists, and we can also get the public administration system down because the basic registers are holding everything today. I also think that you are going the way that you want to do a Digital Information Agency, so why doesn't the Minister of Regional Development take it to his ministry - because you have to change the law of competence and it would be very difficult to enforce a change in the law of competence. So I'm just convinced that this step is wrong, and what I would like to challenge you to do is I have 30 seconds to talk about how cops, firefighters, how they all get funding, I have a completely different feedback. I've been arguing with the Minister of Finance here since that one. 9. in your chapter you don't have the funds for firefighters and policemen, he showed me, of course, that he will have it with him, so I would just like you to bring me the paper for the Security Committee, as you asked for the funds for the firefighters and police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u79	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Mr Ryba, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u80	Mr President, I would like to respond to the Minister of the Interior. First of all, I would like to appreciate the fact that he has publicly stated that members, police officers, firefighters will have a 10 percent higher wage rate in the coming year, if I say so correctly. I would very much like it if the Minister had a similar statement, because we do not only have police officers and firefighters in the congregations, so I would like it if a similar statement could be made about civil servants, because that is also a group of people who would also like to know what they are up to. And the second question is again for the Minister - or if Minister Stanjura will say so, of course it doesn't matter - it concerns the National Information Agency. I understand that the people who go in from the Home Office, and now I don't know if I remember the numbers well, about 290, will be cut off, including their funds, which are on their wages. But I also read there that it should arise - now I don't know if I'm going to say the number right again, I guess 125 - places that are going to be created again at this point. And I'd like to know where the funds are for these newly created places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u81	Thank you for keeping time. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Juchelka. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u82	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna put a little bit of it in the right place for my foreman. I didn't even mention that we should add anything to anybody's social system, on the contrary, I appreciated this government, that the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs really reflects the crisis that we are all experiencing here. But on the other hand, we see here, and that was the only thing that we really should add to those who work at the employment office or at the Czech Social Security Administration and so on, and I put those low wages on purpose, because without them, and we know that in the covido period, when they were paying us off the antivirals, when they were paying us all these aids to citizens and companies, we simply can't do anything. And in the last few weeks, we can read articles, see TV reports delaying social welfare payments, as people are waiting for a housing allowance, as they wait several months within the Czech Social Security Administration to measure their old-age pension, when people are waiting for a housing allowance for several weeks, and I think that is precisely because the labour authorities are underfunded, that they are undersized by the staff. They also jump from various other regions of personnel capacity to Prague, where the situation is most critical, and help with these agendas. That's why I think the stabilization is that 9.5 billion of that 900 billion package simply and simply on the salaries to the tariff here will increase these employees and we will stabilize the situation a little bit, because we simply can't do anything without them. That was the only thing I could think of with an increase in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u83	Thank you. The last one with a point of fact is registered by Minister Stanjura, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u84	Only for Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, the Minister of the Interior does not have to ask for these funds, that is what I said last time. There are more than 40 chapters, budget measures are prepared, approximately CZK 117 million for the Ministry of the Interior. This will be signed at the moment the state budget amendment comes out in the Collection of Laws, as I said last time. For those forty or more forty chapters it is written from Chapter 301, this is the Office of the President of the Republic, 302 is our chapter of the Chamber of Deputies, up to the number 381 Supreme Audit Office, somewhere in that order, it is according to the chapter number, it is also found chapter 314 of the Ministry of the Interior. I'm sure you'll recognize that it's much better if we do it automatically than I get 41 or 42 requests from chapter administrators. The budget allocation is actually ready and will be implemented at the moment when it will be published in the Collection of Laws amending the state budget for 2022. instead of the Minister of the Interior, I will use the two minutes, of course the salaries are guaranteed in the increased tariffs that we agreed as government, the means for this are. The only thing that makes us different with the unions - they would put everything on tariffs so that everyone would take the same - and we raised the volumes without further increasing the tariffs again from 1 January 2023, we raised the volumes so that the immediate superiors had more resources for those over-the-counter wage and wage components for those who are paid in wages. I wanted to say something else about the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, but I forgot about that, and I couldn't make it in nine seconds anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u85	Thank you for keeping time. With another factual remark, Minister Rakušan will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u86	I'm just really two sentences left. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Please, let's not assume that there are impressions that there are some feedbacks from the field and the like, that no rewards have been paid. Well, I've been checking it out. During the emergency period, as promised by the government, for every single hour of overtime each individual police officer in this country was paid 300 crowns, 300 crowns per hour, as promised by the government. Everything was paid to every police officer in the Czech Republic who served overtime during the emergency period. These are facts, hard facts, indisputable facts, and maybe they're a little stronger than any feeling. So, please, let's also set this straight. As far as the Digital Agency is concerned, of course, the money will be specified at the moment when it will be decided definitively on the establishment of the agency itself, and at present the funds are in the chapter of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. That's the answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u87	Thank you. Before we go back to the general debate and Mr Metnar gets the floor, I will make an apology. Mr Okamura apologizes from 5:30 pm for work reasons, and Mr Kott cancels his apology today. Mr. Metnar, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will comment on the chapter of the Ministry of Defence. The YES movement has always supported the growth of defense spending. I would just like to remind you that the defence budget has risen by 100 per cent since 2014. At present, we are in a situation where we are fully aware of the importance of investing in our defences and the important role our military plays. It is no longer necessary to stress the importance of our membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. When the budget for 2022 was approved, I had reservations about it. This was mainly due to the humiliation of the Ministry of Defence's budget, and the expenditure of this chapter has actually fallen from 1.4 percent to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product. I also proposed the completion of the valorisation of soldiers' salaries in view of the high inflation rate that our government then approved. At the time of the ANO movement's government, we were planning an increasing level of defense spending that would lead to commitments towards our allies in the North Atlantic Alliance. Modernization and purchase of new equipment and equipment have taken on a high pace that has never been here in the past. After a period of cuts in the defence budget, we finally started investing massively in our defenses. From the structure of this current budget of Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, significant and financially demanding investment expenditure for 2023, it is clear from the list that the current government is logically continuing with the acquisition of 38 of these significant events, which is linked to 27 of us concluded and in 11 cases new projects. The Ministry of Defence budget for 2023 is scheduled for CZK 111.8 billion. This is an increase of more than 20 billion crowns. The readiness of planned investment actions to spend funds efficiently and efficiently will be crucial, thus speeding up the modernisation of the army and increasing the defence capacity of the Czech Republic. Not only in view of the current security situation of the ANO movement, the increase in the funds of the Ministry of Defence chapter supports. Finally, allow me to appreciate the increase in the Ministry of Defence's budget and the maintenance of the growing trajectory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u89	Thank you. The next will be presented in the general debate by Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u90	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to stop at Chapter 314 - Ministry of the Interior. In the past period, I have repeatedly addressed the budgets of the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, so I am somehow used to the composition of the chapter, the breakdown. It's true that it's almost two zeros away from the Home Office, so there's quite a lot of money flowing through here. It's a strong material, 175 pages. I'd like to allow the Minister to point out a little bit that we didn't get it out of the ministry in paper form until sometime today around noon and in zippered form, so we got to her this morning. It's just too late to talk about this. There are a number of numbers, a number of tables. It's a shame we don't get it in time enough. So that's one point. Second point. The revenue chapter reduces revenue by 3.1 % compared to last year and it explains that - 3.1 billion, forgive me - and it explains that 2 billion is transferred to next year because there were no national recovery plans or any related actions. But then there's still an income deficit of 1.1 billion, so I'm sure that's what we're going to ask. More interesting is the item Expenditure, where expenditure for the Ministry of the Interior is growing gradually, and has now reached an increase of 95.6 billion in 2022 and an increase of 4.1 billion to 99.7 billion in 2023. I would understand that, and it is further justified, but I do not understand the further fact that, again, a few pages further will come up with a medium-term plan for the development of the Ministry of the Interior's costs or expenditure. We are suddenly falling to 96 billion in 2024, or 96,6 billion in 2025, or 2022. So I would really like to be there, and I think that's a fundamental explanation why it has the character of a non-linear increase that can be expected with respect to inflation, with regard to wage increases and so on, but why the curve has the character of basically a one-hump camel that falls by 3 billion down in 2024. Right now, we're being explained that it's probably not the Digital and Information Agency. It's a question of whether there's anything about the post office involved. That's where I'd like us to discuss this and explain it, because there's definitely not going to be a drop in salaries and other costs. So it's weird for me that this might go away in the material. And if it's just a mistake that something has been copied from the past and that such an increase has been continuously assumed, I think it's a fundamental mistake and should be explained. Then from the point of view of the 4.1 billion-dollar increase in expenditure. When we calculate individual items - of course, about 52 percent of these expenditures are wages, namely 56 billion - an annual increase of 7.7 % is an increase of 4.3 billion. So, in fact, only the increase in wages is exhausted by the increase in expenditure. Then there are the income increases, and they increase by 8.9 percent and the severance pay by about 9 percent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u91	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask your colleagues and colleagues to quiet down in the room so that you can continue the dignified atmosphere. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u92	Thank you. So it's a year-on-year increase of 3/4 billion in pensions and severance payments. There are other things, such as the stabilization surcharge, which the Minister mentioned here, and we actually talked about it with the police president, because the stabilisation is necessary, so that it is additional expenses that will be needed for next year, and of course it is also a question of leaving the police, you mentioned it here, Minister - by giving out relatively large rewards or tangible rewards - we will not say great because they are not so great in relation to the tariff salary, but they are only increasing the revenue for those policemen - and those police officers throughout the year, and especially at this time they are sitting with a calculator, whether we want to or not, and calculating when it is convenient for them to leave. So it's a problem, and the projected increases in income and severance expenses can be even higher next year. [[18.00 hours]] You also said in the material that you wanted to do it by the year, and now I assume I got it right, by 2027 stabilize police and firefighters for a total increase in the police force of about 26,000, 46,000 (?) Members, which means about 6,000, which in the five-year term you put in for this, means an increase of 5,000, which means over 1,000 members per year, which is a big expense, and it solves the increase itself, and we have to replace the anticipated departures of those members. When I add up these amounts of projected expenditure for one year, we only get on wage parameters, on debts, and on the compensation of members in price - in quotation marks - more than 5 billion, and we increase the expenditure by 4.1 billion. Furthermore, we have set rather ambitious targets to solve the number of police officers and firefighters, to accept them sufficiently, to stabilize them financially. You were talking about generation stabilization, that it will no longer be stabilizing where it is less attractive for them to serve, for example, but it will be the stabilization between the 15th and 25th years of service, when those who are in the best form are well equipped with knowledge, so we are leaving, and it is a great shame, we are replacing them with new members, in which we have to invest very much. So there is also information technology spending, there will be migration spending, we declare that critical infrastructure protection will be strengthened, there are a number of points that we must agree with of course and agree with, but they are financially demanding. And we are already much, much above the 4.1 billion increase in spending, and we are not talking about the increase in energy prices, the increase in PHM prices and so on. Let us remember the time when in the 1990s it also happened that due to expensive energy or PHM the crew's exit rate was limited, that the number of mileage was limited, or that the members could not have showered or washed with warm water. So I want to say that, as I see it at the first reading, an increase to 99.7 billion cannot be enough for those ambitious targets, especially in terms of wages and related matters. So for me, I think we're going to have quite a lot to discuss on the committee, and I'm going to be happy to discuss it, because from my point of view, it's undervalued, even if there's a 4.1 billion increase, and it's completely unexplained why in the years 2024 and 2025, which is still going to be a five-police government, yours, there you're going to have a drop to 96 or 96,6 billion in 2025, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u93	Thank you. So I see the application for withdrawal, and yet here was the request for a performance with the priority right of Mr. Chairman of the Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u94	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I, colleagues, would ask for a procedural vote, we have 18.04 - certainly this is a fundamental material, a state budget for 2023, so that even colleagues Mašek, Bžoch, Nacher, nový were not under pressure of time and could get off, so let us vote, please, that we will vote today and possibly vote after 19th, 21st or 24th hour, although we do not expect it to happen this way. And on behalf of the five presidents of the MPs, the agreement was from the Gremia, so the opposition knows it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u95	Thank you. I call the Members to the Chamber. Now I'm hearing an application for check-out, all log-ins, please log in with your ID cards. The procedural proposal was made for us to vote and act after 19 or 21 o'clock. Since the numbers are now coming to an end, I am opening the vote on this proposal. Please, who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 151, 125 were registered - please calm down in the hall, please calm down in the hall! 125 votes registered, for 122, against 0, or this proposal has been accepted. We can act after 19th and 21st hours. We can therefore proceed to another enrollment, which is Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, and I will also read the apologies that have passed in the meantime, this is Mrs Karla Maříková, who apologizes from 19 o'clock for work reasons, and Mrs Lucie Šafránková from 18 o'clock for work reasons. Now, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I can promise my colleagues I'll be very brief. Thanks to the fact that I'm almost at the end, I have a big audience, which is fine. I'll only comment on the State Department's budget. I will not comment so much on the budget for this year, because there I think that what is proposed today is success, but what makes wrinkles on my forehead is a medium-term perspective, because the comparison of 2024 with 2023 will be a reduction of almost 800 million and in the next year it will be 1.2 billion. Since the costs that are rising today, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, have a lot of real estate, offices, apartments abroad, where prices are also rising, I fear that if we continue to subfinance the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our foreign service will not be able to perform its duties. Since we are export-oriented countries, and even at this time when the economic situation is not ideal, and we are looking for more and more outlets for our exporters, it is important for us to have a network of representative offices, and if we continue to finance this way, or if we want to save on this or on diplomats, it will of course not be good for the Czech Republic and our businesses. When I take the representative offices, they create a picture of the Czech Republic abroad, and as I said before, if we subfinance them, it will certainly not be good for the future. It's not just my words, it's this criticism, but it's the words and the drafters of the budget to my surprise, so I don't understand how he agreed to it. I understand in 2023, that we are adding more money to Ukraine for humanitarian aid, we have collected - we have actually moved money from our contributions to humanitarian aid to Ukraine, which is, of course, fine, we know what the situation is. The budget for this year is also increased, which is also fine. [[18.10 hours]] I have no problem with the debate that Štiřín Castle as a monument should no longer belong to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we should not manage it. It could certainly be a debate, but this way we let the castle starve and all the employees who work there leave in this uncertainty that we treat them like this, so I think it's a very bad step, because, of course, if Štiřín Castle is in deficit for a long time, then of course it will go away. And if we want to signal that we don't want Stiřín Castle, I think it's a very bad way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u97	Thank you and Mr Patrik Nacher is now signed in, Mr MiloMiloš nový will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u98	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, Ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I went with such a different tactic today. I'm always the first to sign up, and there's almost no one in this room, so now I've fallen all the way to the end, and there's more listeners. Well, it pays to be last in line after all. You see, a man is learning, so from now on, I could quit or I'll always end these speeches and speeches with those important standards, with permission. Even my colleague Skopeček wants to hear it in the front row, so I'm glad for that. I am relatively, I have to say, for the moment, which is the disadvantage of being to the end, because it has already been said and not all of us have said it, but I will have some original things and topics for the Minister here that I would like to share with him. As for the general view of the budget, I've already said it somewhere on the TV show that it's the exact sum for me a little bit of inaccurate numbers, because those numbers at this point are untrue to me. I'd take that as an emergency. Now I'm thinking on the revenue side, that there's funding there that needs to be changed by the law that we're dealing with in parallel. And I'm saying, if it was the first time and it was in an emergency situation, maybe I'd mention it here and I'd pass. But I'm just going to say it's the second time, it's the second budget, and the second time you're actually dealing with it the same way. Let me remind you that this year's budget was 14 billion, which the state budget saved in relation to payments for state insurance in the health insurance sector, so the situation is actually repeating itself. That's the first point. And I think you'd blame us, too. I'm going to remind you of a two-and-a-half-billion-dollar digital tax, as much as it was here between the first and second readings, and we've had it on our plate for the two months that the state budget discussed. Well, enjoy yourself now. The difference is that it was 2.5 billion before, so now it's, let's see, 85 billion or 100 billion, actually with the 150 billion modernization fund, so we're multiplying by what it was before. That's the first point. Second point. If you look at the draft state budget for 2022 on the expense side, it was 1893 billion. The draft state budget for 2023 has 2223 billion. The difference between that is CZK 330 billion, please nicely. Within one year, spending increased by 330 billion. I'm not just criticizing it here, but I'm contrasting it with the fact that we voted this morning on the mobility allowance, where it went from CZK 550 to CZK 900, but you were defending yourself to raise it to CZK 2000, 1600, 1200 - there were different variations. We're talking about items that are in hundreds of millions, maybe units of billions. I think that's what Aleš Juchelka would say. I don't think so either. Or a colleague of Kaňkovský. But spending has increased by CZK 330 billion year on year, and we are here squabbling about whether people with disabilities will receive CZK 900 or CZK 1100 instead of 550 at this time. It sounds to me like it's in conflict, just that it's in contradiction, that of the 330 billion there would be funds, don't be mad at me, they found them. You don't want to raise any higher taxes from the general information regarding the revenue, except for the one specifically mentioned. That's what I said yesterday. I'm the one that's counting, I wouldn't even support tax increases, I'm saying it fair and square here. So for the award. Of course, inflation is also helping you to do this, so you also have to say, you will choose more than was planned this year and the next year, than if the situation were to develop normally. This needs to be constantly reminded, because inflation is constantly being thrown at, that it is wrong. In general, yes, but it's good for the state budget. As for the expenses, I'm going to repeat myself when I say that the ceilinging is expensive, because the design you invented is for me, for us - I'm sure my colleague Havlíček has spoken about it - bad, and then he shows up on the expense page. And at this point, I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance if I can see where you are - it would be so ideal if you were to look at me, because I don't know if you're listening. [[The Minister of Finance is speaking with the rapporteur.]] But, okay, if you can do both - where are the cuts, the principal cuts you talked about when you were in opposition. Now I mean, for example, the number of civil servants. I've been with a few of your colleagues - most often officials, but also civil servants - I'm gonna say it now, I've been with a few of your colleagues, maybe here with a colleague Skopeček or Vojta Munzar, I've never been there with a colleague before, I'll be there with him tomorrow, on the show You've got in your wallets (?), and they accused me of increasing the number of employees in the public administration during the last parliamentary term. And I've always pulled out this pie chart where I showed you that it was in regional education, in security files, and that really those officials with the stamp, as people see it, as we know it, it fell by about 3,000 I suspect. That's right, 3,000. Well, now the number of employees in the public sphere has increased by 8,000. So, co-workers, you've been on TV with me, how do you deal with that? I admit they're people in regional education again, but you blamed me for that, too, so I'm wondering how you're gonna explain it now, and in the security files. But we see the increase in the number of officials - and that is a symbol - even at the Office of the Government. That's what I was talking about with the last budget. So I would ask the Minister, primarily the Minister of Finance, where is the first hint of the revenue cut, where you said in opposition that there is a need to cut into it, because the government is kokatí and bureaucratizes. Only if you answer me, maybe I've been looking for it wrong, it's possible it's out there somewhere, all I can see so far is an increase in the number of employees. Now I'm going to ask for your attention, because it's two areas that I think are important from my point of view, and I think from a consumer's point of view. These are chapters 328, 349, CTÚ and ERU. I've made this comparison, and we're talking about it at a time when, for example, a record number of people are turning to the Energy Regulatory Authority, logically, now that energy prices are rising. We discussed this on the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection on the Economic Committee. The number of disputes before the ERU is tripled now, and we're not at the end of the year. And if you look at the EROs, it was that the original budget for 2022 under the previous government under Secretary Schillerová was 301 830 000, you reduced it to 287 million, which means 14 million less. And at this point it's at 306 million, it's only 5 million more than the original one for 2022. If I'm calculating at this speed, the 5 million out of that 300 million is some 1 and 3/4 percentage point increase. This means that the ERU's finances will grow year-on-year, which is under enormous pressure from consumers at a time when the most important thing here is the energy crisis, by 1/4 percentage point. [[18.20 hours]] The second chapter is 328 - Czech Telecommunications Office. Alena Schillerová's original proposal was 2,256,000,000. I'll deduct 1.5 billion from that for the Czech Post, so it was 756 million. You guys reduced it by 25 million to 730 in that review. Well, do you know how much you've got now? Now you have 722 million, so even less than you had before. You have 2,222,000,000 in the table, if you look at it, Minister, but that's exactly the 1.5 billion for the Czech Post, so that has to be deducted. Yeah, that's what we were clear about the budget last time, so it moved on calendarly to 2023. So if I deduct the 1.5 billion for the Czech Post, that's okay, so I found purely for the Czech Television there, if you don't take me out of error, 722 million, that means 8 million less than your original revision or revised proposal for 2022. And again, consumer protection, CTU, greater demands, and year-on-year there at the CTU is less even, less by 8 million. And if I should take it with Alena Schillerová's original draft budget, it's less than CZK 33 million. So I would then take the liberty at second reading of focusing on these things that somehow fall within my expertise, that is, the Czech Television, the ERÚ, and then I'll look at the budget of a financial arbiter who doesn't have a special chapter, but it's under the Ministry of Finance. So I made it as brief as I could, so I wouldn't hold up any longer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u99	Thank you and the speech has aroused interest in the de facto remark made by Vice-President Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u100	Thank you very much. I only want to respond to two things that my colleague here overshot. One thing, he was talking about inflation, how this inflation is helping the government so much, that it's increasing revenue. Well, it might help the revenue side optically, but the budget also has an expense side. Of course, higher prices are reflected both on the State and on the expenditure side. First of all, on the basis of inflation, various benefits, most of all pensions, areattempted, so if we have high inflation, it automatically means that we will have higher spending on pensions as well. Even state institutions, the public sector, buy their services from petrol to I don't know what at higher prices than he did last year. So the idea of inflation increasing dramatically in some way helps the state to reduce the structural balance in some way is simply odd. This is not true, but it increases the revenue optically, but inflation is also profiling on the expenditure side, and, on the contrary, it is pushing the state into higher spending, especially in the mandatory ones, such as pensions, which is actually aggravating the structural state of public finances. If anything would help the state budget, it is, of course, high economic growth, which, of course, really helps the income side. You had this benefit under your government, you did not use it entirely to reduce the structural deficit, on the contrary, it was increased. As far as the number of civil servants is concerned, I have no problem with that, I am applying. I am simply convinced that our public sector is large, that our public sector is rampant and that we simply do not have the means to keep it in its current size. And I firmly hope that in the coming years not only the number of civil servants will fall, but the number of civil servants as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u101	Thank you and this brings us back to the general debate. Mr Miloš nový is registered. I'll do three more apologies. Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes from 6:30 pm for working reasons, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová from 18:00 for family reasons and President Alena Schillerová from 18:20 to 19:00 for work reasons. And please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u102	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members, in the context of today's law on the state budget for 2023, I would like to respond in my contribution to the endless debates on the level of budget deficits in the current fiscal year 2022, in the year 2023, but also in the medium term of the state budget for the years 2024 to 2025. First, let me quote and remind you of an old Bible story. It concerns one of the twelve sons of Jákob, Josef. As you well know, father Jákob's beloved son Josef was sold to his brothers in Egyptian slavery. Thanks to the favor of the Hospodin, Josef was given the opportunity to become a prophet and interpret dreams that seemed to the Pharaoh of Egypt. Let me briefly quote a part of the text from the recounted Bible to the children of the authors Bridget Hadaway and Jean Atcheson. I quote: "Then one night Pharaoh had a dream. He stood by the river Nile, when seven beautiful and fat cows came out of the river and began to graze on the grass. Then Pharaoh saw seven more cows ascend from the river, but ugly and skinny, and they became among the fed ones. Eventually, the skinny ones got into the fat ones, and they all ate them. The dream vanished, and Pharaoh was deeply concerned. When he fell asleep again, he had a second dream. Seven full and mature wheat ears have grown from one stalk and seven other empty, eastern winds have grown behind them. It looked as if the empty ears were eating the full ones, and Pharaoh woke up all depressed again. When morning came, he called all the Egyptian fortune tellers and wise men, told them his dreams, but none of them could explain them to him. And then Pharaoh's chief waiter remembered Josef, the interpreter of dreams. When Josef heard Pharaoh's dreams, he said: In fact, these two dreams are one and the same. The seven fat cows mean seven years, as well as the seven full wheat ears. It'll be years of abundance. The seven skinny cows and the seven empty ears indicate seven years of hunger. Nothing goes wrong and the cattle die of hunger, and the whole land of Egypt will be in ruins." End of quote. Why did I read you a Bible story that many of you know so well? Against the background of this story, what we know as an economic cycle - an economic cycle in terms of changing economic activity, which we know under the terms economic growth, expansion, recovery and conjucture, and an economic downturn with names such as crisis, recession, contractions and so on. In other words, the Bible's story tells us that in human life, periods of abundance and periods of suffering take place more or less regularly. This Josef also gives us instructions on how to prepare for the period of suffering as best as possible. I quote: "It would be good for you to make supplies for years of hunger. In every part of the earth, you should appoint overseers and stewards to gather and store a fifth of the crop. It will feed you in the years of the skinny. Build new granaries and warehouses and keep them well guarded. Only then will you have enough food for the people for the seven years of hunger. And that's the only way you're gonna save Egypt." End of quote. [[18.30 hours]] From the old biblical story of the years of abundance used to create stocks for years of hardship, let us now approach its application in the conditions of the Czech Republic between 2013 and 2021, when Sobotkův's government participated in economic policy, where the ANO movement held, among other things, the post of Finance Minister, and then Babišův's government. In what way did both governments use the seven Bible - based years of abundance to make supplies for years of suffering? Both governments ruled in years when the Czech Republic experienced years of continuous economic growth, with the exception of the cod year 2020. Statistically expressed, economic growth in the reference period showed the following values: in 2014 2,3 %, then 5,4 %, 2,5 %, 5,2 %, 3,2 %, 3 %, in 2020, which was the cod year, -5.5 percent, and finally in 2021 2,9%. I know that asking governments to postpone a fifth of the crop in the years of abundance according to Joseph's advice, which represents 20 percent, would be completely unrealistic. Personally, I could do with one hundredth, one percent. How high would the amount of budgetary surpluses at this point be to compensate for the costs associated with the war conflict, the costs associated with the energy crisis and the costs associated with the elimination of falling inflation? With only one percent of the stockpiling of crops in seven fat years, the amount of annual budget surpluses would range from approximately CZK 43 billion to CZK 61 billion, which means that in the total of two previous governments' term of office, the accumulated surplus would amount to almost CZK 420 billion, with a 2% surplus of CZK 840 billion. Unfortunately, past governments instead of filling Josef's granaries and warehouses in the years of fat words and saving for years of skinny, harvested crops. What's more, they owe us for the next period. The total amount generated by the deficit reached almost CZK 900 billion over the period of eight years under review. For the sake of correctness, it must be added that the said figure also applies to the Covido Year 2020. If we do not have a surplus of 420 billion and instead we have a deficit of 900 billion, then the total difference is CZK 1,320 billion, which is more than the amount of budget revenue in 2017. And I note this without the need for discounting or counting inflation. At the same time, the amount of nearly CZK 900 billion of the state budget deficit proves that it is not true that debt has been reduced between 2014 and 2021. What I hear here, as previous governments have reduced the debt of the state budget, is not about the debt of absolute but relative debt, which is the ratio of debt to gross domestic product. While absolute debt grew in bold years, relative debt decreased only because of faster growth in gross domestic product than that debt. Moreover, from the perspective of GDP growth, previous governments have driven on a wave of pan-European and global economic growth, to which either they have not contributed at all, or have contributed completely negligiblely. The Bible story of seven fat and seven skinny years is a variation in the well-known postulate of the so-called Keynesian economic policy, which forms the ideal starting point for left and mid-left governments in terms of the significant involvement of the state in the economy of the country. However, while Keynesian economic policy recommends budget deficits at a time of recession, it clearly requires the creation of budgetary surpluses in times of economic growth. However, the previous governments have completely forgotten this obligation. The government's current problems in drawing up the state budget thus come up with a lack of respect for one of the fundamental and important postulates of economic policy theory by previous governments. Otherwise, solving the current serious economic problems would be significantly easier for our government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u103	Thank you, too. I will also include an apology from Mrs Věra Kovářová. She's been apologizing since 6:15 a.m. for personal reasons. And since no one is going into the general debate anymore, it really is not, so I am ending the general debate. And I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in the final word? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u104	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there have been clear arguments from the mouth of the members of the government to repeat once again on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic a request for first reading today to approve the basic parameters of the state budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u105	Thank you, too. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? It doesn't, which means we can proceed to the vote. I'm gonna ask him to show us the proposals he's made. I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers and patrons from the lobby. Please, rapporteur. Quiet in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u106	Colleagues, colleagues, there have been no proposals for amendments or for a re-evaluation of the law until the first reading, which means that we will only vote on one proposal, and that was the proposal from the Committee on Budgets. I read it here at the very beginning, so now let me not read it whole again, but I'll say the most important thing. The proposal reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 according to the House press 315." Please begin the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u107	Thank you. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 152 138 Members and Members were voted in favour of 81, against 43. I therefore note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. The resolution has therefore been adopted, and I am ending the first reading of this press. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. And since there is - yes, please, to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u108	I would question the vote because my machine didn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u109	So this is a motion to challenge the vote, so I will put it to the vote on the objection. I have begun the vote (number 153). Yes, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I Please log in with your ID cards again. And since there has been an objection to questioning the vote, I first put to the vote on this objection whether it will be. I started voting on the objection. Please, who's in favour of her acceptance? Who's against it? The number 154 voted 134, in favour of 130, against 0, or the objection was accepted. [[18.40 hours]] And we will repeat the vote, I think it is clear to everyone that this is a motion for a whole resolution. Initiating vote. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? And in the 155 vote, 134 votes were cast, for 85, against 48. I state once again that the motion for a resolution has been approved. So I'm definitely finishing the first reading of this press. And since the agreement is to end, I would still like to vote on the proposal to remove the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 41st session of the Chamber of Deputies. I am opening the vote on this proposal to eliminate the remaining items of the meeting. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 156 vote, 134 votes were cast, for 129, against zero. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. Probably for Mr Babka's vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please. I'm asking for peace! I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u110	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Only for the tape screen, I voted against the 155 vote, but I have a pro on the high, so only to correct it. I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-26-ps2021-041-06-004-001.u111	Thank you, this is for the log. I am merely saying that we have exhausted the approved programme of the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies before the vote. I am finishing this meeting and reminding you - please also for attention - that the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened at 9 pm on Tuesday 1 November, on Friday 4 November the 44th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened at 9 pm, and on Friday 28 October there will be an Open Day on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, so please clean up your desk materials or else they will be shredded. Thank you and I wish you quiet days.
