ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /house print 166/ - first reading We have interrupted the discussion of this point today in the general debate. I ask that instead of the rapporteur's table, Mr. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, who I do not see here, and I do not see... we have one minister here, but we do not have a petitioner, so I will ask my colleagues to secure the presence of the petitioner. And I see that the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Tom Philipp, has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that we voted in accordance with § 59 para. 1 and 2 limitation of speaking time to 10 minutes, with a maximum of twice as much as possible by the Member on the same matter. We will now continue the interrupted general debate, where Mr Oldřich Černý was interrupted during his speech and his speech remained for about 5 minutes for 40 seconds, so I ask the Member to continue his speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u2	Thank you again for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I would like to end my interrupted speech for us, for the SPD movement, for a call to the Government of the Czech Republic and for all coalition Members. For the reasons mentioned above, health is once again at the edge of its options both capacity and financial, which is what we've been debating all along. Therefore, Dear Government, if you do not wish to cause the financial collapse of our Czech health care and you do not want to be remembered as the source of restrictions on health care for our citizens and the cause of less and less accessible care, I appeal to you to think again and find acceptable solutions and not to drive Czech health to the abyss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u3	Thank you. So it wasn't necessary or the remaining time. Mr Jiří Kobza, Mr Kamal Farhan, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me also comment on the government proposal for a rather brutal cutting of public health support for this year, because there is nothing else in the government's proposal to reduce practically a quarter of the amount of insurance contributions to the public health insurance system for so-called state insured persons. Moreover, it is a proposal that is about to start to apply from 1 July this year, and so we would be quite interested in whether the government has any information or assumptions that such an economic recovery will come at the end of June, such a boom, such an increase in the tax revenues of wages, and thus the mandatory contributions that will fill this hole, the 14 billion. These are perhaps assumptions of excise or value added tax revenues. We know that, thanks to high fuel prices, these returns are indeed high. However, if they do not have this information, it would be wise to withdraw the proposal, because it is a gamble with the health of our citizens, with our health professionals, health workers who do not deserve such treatment from the state authority in any way. [[18.40 hours]] For over 30 years, it has been a good practice in the area of the health department's budget, in general, that public health insurance payments for so-called state insured persons, i.e. child contributions, seniors, unemployed, wealthless and others have increased regularly with price levels rising. I have a brochure here, it's called the Czech Government Program Statement of January 2022, and it says here in the chapter Health Care that we will enforce regular valorisation of payments for state insured persons by the end of the term. I think that this is too far away by the end of the term of office, and it would be very positive if this regular valorisation had taken place continuously. The point is that this action, this cut, is going to fall primarily on the most necessary ones, on the propertyless ones. And when I think of the famous proverb that who wants to know how to live in a certain country, that he should look old and poor people in the mouth, whether they can afford dentists or not. I live in a country where old and poor people are quite a lot, and I have to say that what they have in their mouths or rather do not have, is terrible and I try to find some way for people who are homeless and live completely on the edge of the system to help them in this care, in the prosthetics of dentistry, at least the basic one. So far it turns out that this is an insurmountable administrative problem, at least for those dentists. So only so that the government can tick off the most significant item on the list of its budget cuts, which are just cuts on the weakest and most threatened citizens, because the government has also reduced the amount of expenditure, for example, on the care of disabled people, dependent on the care of other people, or the amount of contributions to low-income single mothers. I have a friend who has a disabled daughter, and the girl is at the level of a 10-year-old, maybe smaller. He can get on the bus, but he doesn't know where he's going anymore and where to get off. However, when they applied for mobility support when they asked for assistance, they were denied that it had to be saved. So, as repeatedly communicated by the relevant experts, the planned government measure will lead to an accelerated exhaustion of the financial reserves for those health insurance companies that still have them and which are, by nature, destined for so-called worse times. And this, of course, does not take into account that we have now received another 300,000 state insured people in the form of refugees from Ukraine. So these reserves, which are destined for worse times, are not intended to cover the negative consequences of budgetary exhibitionism. By the way, the Association of Health Insurance Companies, which brings together six insurance companies with about 4.7 million insured persons, has already stated that if public health insurance payments do not increase significantly, it will be necessary to reduce payments to health care providers. On top of that, we still have to realise that for a long time, health insurance companies have been unplanned to cover items that were initially not expected, such as massive repetition of testing for cod-19. For example, the President of the Czech Insurance Society Ladislav Friedrich states: Originally, there was a deficit of 14 billion planned for this year, which insurance funds would still cover with 9 billion remaining on their accounts at the end of 2022. [[correct: Republic]] In addition, a larger part of this balance would only cover outstanding liabilities for 2022. And another 14 billion decline, which will be the inevitable effect of the government's proposal to reduce compulsory health insurance payments for state insured people, can no longer cover these balances, and some of the unpaid costs will shift to the next year, with the scope for a more favourable collection of insurance premiums from employers to reduce costs being narrow enough, because most cost increases are due to a change in the agreed amount of payments and a change in the payment decree for 2022 which raised our agreed expenditure by 18 billion. Also, let us not forget that there is a relatively difficult economic period in which unemployment may increase, the number of people who will have existential and financial problems may increase, and we can expect unemployment to rise as businesses close down due to the energy crisis, so that the choice of insurance premiums will be reduced and health insurance companies will have to look for savings, for example, in bonding or in drug policy, which are not happy prospects. But unfortunately, the government is really deaf and blind in this regard and, in my opinion, extremely irresponsible, because it ignores the urgent voices of employees in the health sector and their organisations who protest against the reduction of health insurance payments for state insured people and call for help. [[18.50 hours]] The Department of Health and Social Welfare of the Czech Republic and the Medical Trade Union, for example, state in their joint opinion: The reduced amount for payment for state insured persons is not only contrary to the applicable legislation, but is above all a step that can seriously destabilize the financial situation in health care. We would therefore like to draw your attention to the risks that the proposal to reduce payments for state insured persons brings. We present numbers from the Ministry of Health's official materials. The forecast revenues of public health for 2022 would amount to CZK 431.2 billion by counting the planned 14 billion per state insured person. The projected public health insurance deficit for 2022, with increased funds for state insured people, would be CZK minus CZK 17 billion. The public health insurance deficit would increase by an additional CZK 14 billion by canceling the increase in payments for state insured persons, which would amount to CZK 31 billion. In addition, public health insurance for the year 2022 did not count on other cost of the disease covid-19. This involves both the said testing and vaccination. Based on the epidemiological situation and the government's decision, extensive testing is taking place with an estimated amount of around CZK 3 billion, plus the agreed purchase of drugs for covid-19 The Ministry of Health in the amount of about CZK 2 billion, which will subsequently be paid again by health insurance companies, so these are additional expenditures in excess of CZK 6 billion. Due to the government's intention to reduce insurance premiums for state insured persons, health insurance companies will have significant economic problems, which must inevitably be reflected in the provision of health care, especially in 2023. Health insurance companies are already telling us that they will offer a regression margin to individual providers for 2023, which means a reduction in payments, and this will undoubtedly be negatively reflected in the provision of health care. So many medical unions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u5	Time, Mr. Ambassador! You're out right now. But you have the opportunity to log in once more and finish your performance. [[Mr Kobza: Thank you for your attention.]] Thank you, too. Mr Kamal Farhan is now signed in and Mrs Věra Adámková will be prepared. Twice ten you're taking right away, okay. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u6	Madam President, thank you for the floor. In the beginning, before I begin my consideration and comment on the bill presented, there were many truths, half truths and untruths. It sounded here, I noticed the contradictions in the government coalition, which, of course, I will mention in my commentary when the disunity of the views expressed here - or not today, but repeatedly in the last month - in the opinion of the state insured Minister Válek. I think that the heart of my honored colleague Tom Philipp must also be torn apart, who, on the one hand, agrees to reduce the payment for state insured people and, on the other hand, wants to help more, give more, improve care, innovative care, quality, which he actually mentioned in order to provide the best possible care for our citizens. And he mentioned it in his candidate speech. Of course, I appreciate the opinion for its consistency, it is Minister Stanjura, because he is really consistent and that, at least for me, is partially predictable. So one more time. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill that the government is trying to create an illusion that we have more money for health care than we really need, and we are launching a longer-term, inconspicuous, creepy and sophisticated process of really reducing the amount of funds in the Czech health sector with very dangerous consequences. The government wants to take money on the basis of questionable arguments about their need at the moment of a cumulative deficit in the public health insurance system, sprinting inflation, forecast slowing the economy and refugee waves from Ukraine, which brings further demands on the Czech health care system that will need to be paid. Other difficult to predict factors such as the later waves of infectious diseases and their consequences, as if they were not expected at all in the government's blood flow through health finances. The explanatory memorandum to the present law states: In the context of the discussion of the State Budget Act for 2022, the Government of the Czech Republic concluded that the current state of public finances was necessary to address the involvement of all public resources, which are currently not being used effectively. This appropriation is also intended to cover balances on individual health insurance funds. Furthermore, the government says - I quote: In order to involve other public budgets in the state budget this year, it is proposed that the payment for state insured persons be frozen to the level of 2021. And so here today we have been discussing this proposal for many hours. The government is planning to irretrievably deprive the health bill of 14 billion, so far nothing like this has ever happened. And the government's reasoning is that - if I retell the formal official language of the bill a little more popularly - the government takes the health care money that it thinks lies in health insurance companies just like that, and the Czech health services just don't need it. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is a deep mistake. The health problem is not an excess of money that health care would not know how to handle. It's exactly the opposite. Health care works with limited funds and seeks to provide the highest quality, state-of-the-art treatment within our country's economic capabilities. In other words, we can make more music for more money. There is no unnecessary money in the public health insurance system. Doctors have a basically daily and never-ending debate with health insurance companies about what should and could be covered by public health insurance, but because of the definition of always limited financial resources, patients do not have access to this. For example, for illustration purposes, the use of more effective but also more expensive medicines in previous treatment lines in the population of widespread diabetes or cost medicines for rare diagnoses such as achondroplasia may be indicated. Of course, there are countless examples. Today, a new medicine for migraine, which patients cannot afford, and insurance companies are still not paying for. I would also mention atopic dermatitis, for example, because it affects more than 200,000 people. Today we have one biological drug, SÚKL approved it for indication of moderate and severe dermatitis, but in fact insurance companies do not pay it in those indications, as it has been approved, they only cash it in when one does not work on ciclosporin A, or is allergic to it, or simply there are some other contraindications. And with all this money, we can actually help Czech health care that patients can improve their own, I'll say, daily life, whether they're migraines, whether they're atopics, those who have atopic dermatitis, and others. The 14 billion, which the government irretrievably cuts to Czech health care, claiming that it does not need it, could help many patients to improve and make health care more effective. Health insurance companies with doctors and their professional companies have daily discussions about this. If the Minister of Finance stood before the professors of medicine, practices and outpatient specialists in these negotiations and told them that there was no need for any more money to provide health care, I believe he would have obtained thousands and thousands of arguments that testify to the very opposite. It is also enough to visit a number of hospitals, including those of the faculty, to see the consequences of the long-term underfinancing of the physical infrastructure of the Czech health sector with no extraordinarily developed observational talent. [[19.00 hours]] The Minister of Health must also know these arguments very well. It is a big surprise to me that Professor Válek did not fight for his ministry and Czech health care more and let him take the 14 billion. The coalition, through the media, convinces us that even though it takes medical money, there will be no restriction on health care. Of course, this is impossible in practice, because the health needs are by definition greater than the available financial resources, as I have tried to explain. In addition, inflation is entering our game, breaking records in our modern history. Health care providers, mostly hospitals, practitioners and ambulances, will receive less money for the same amount of health care they provide due to inflation than so far, given that the real value of the remuneration is falling due to inflation. Medical facilities have contracted a certain amount of health care they provide but did not count on dramatically increasing energy, material and other inputs. High inflation will increase the pressure to raise salaries that will not have the character of increasing the real income of doctors and nurses, but will be a simple compensation for high inflation so that real incomes that they do not fall to people they are accustomed to so far. All of this means that hospitals, practitioners, ambulances should provide the same amount of work and health care for a remuneration whose real value is falling. If the law of preservation of matter is to apply here, it is not possible for this trend to continue in the long term and the quality and scope of health care provided is not compromised. The situation will deteriorate dramatically in connection with the agreement, or rather the non-negotiation of health care payments for next year, which are just beginning. If insurance companies have money for payments that cover only a quarter or a fifth of inflation, it will be difficult to ask hospitals to provide the same quality and scope of care with real income of some 6 to 8 percent lower than this year. Even if the government has to pretend that it's going to give hospitals 3 percent more money in the next year, really, thanks to inflation, which can move up to 15 percent, it's going to take away 6 to 9 percent. The money just has to be missing somewhere. And they'll be missing somewhere. I'm surprised the Minister of Health doesn't stop at the back and fight for his resort. Minister Stanjura wants to take 14 billion out of health care this year by cutting payments for state insured people, thereby increasing the deficit of the public health insurance system. Judging by the media's lack of involvement with Minister Válek, he just says "okay" and leaves without a fight. So far, every Minister of Health has fought for the Ministry's finances because he knew that no surplus surplus in health insurance accounts was rolling. And even though he did not convince the Minister of Finance, so far no Minister of Health has thrown a towel into the ring in the way that Minister Válek did. The last replies to the Ministers' interpelation during the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies were also a bad business for the government in this respect. While the Minister of Finance, asking what the valorisation of state insurance payments would look like, replied that it would be based on an average wage, which I understand, the Minister of Health spoke of a minimum wage. Talking about a minimum wage in relation to the valorisation mechanism does not make any general sense. The establishment of a minimum wage depends on the current political mood of the government, while the average wage is an objective, measurable variable, essentially independent of the immediate decision-making of the government. While the minimum wage as a criterion of valorisation is completely inappropriate and to a large extent pointless, the average wage is quite well applicable in combination with taking into account inflation or anticyclical measures. At one of the media debates that I attended with Minister Válek, Mr. Vice Prime Minister said that he wanted to set up the future valorisation of state insurance payments according to some of Kalouskův's patterns. Although it was not quite clear to me what Minister Válek meant exactly, but if the payment for state insured persons in 2022 and 2023 was lower than the amount approved by the government in 2021 by the current, still by the law of the level of CZK 1 967 per month, a new concept could enter the textbook of health care economics - Kalouskův valorizace. I took the liberty of mentioning the former Minister and the current Vice-President of the VZP only because Minister Válek said this on the record at the debate. This would be such an increase in payments, which would be characterised by its several years of reduction. The cuts of payments for state insured persons this year and their unclear above in the next year caused enormous uncertainty between hospitals, practitioners, outpatient specialists. There is an annual so-called conciliation procedure, or negotiations on the conditions for health care payments for next year. The government has reduced the amount of money available to insurance companies by cutting 14 billion for state insured people for next year's payment negotiations. So far, the government has not stated how high the payment for state insured persons will be in the next year. We will know when we know the system or the amendment that will be inserted. But basically, it doesn't allow us to have a serious debate on the functioning of health care next year at the present time. The analytical committee's documentation will have to be revised, and the specific debates on the amount of reimbursements in the next year had to be postponed to a later date. To a certain extent, health is destabilizing the government. A destabilizing factor is also moving the state budget deficit into the public health insurance system deficit. The previous government compared underfunded health care to the level common in developed countries to the west of our borders. Over the last four years, the amount of health expenditure relative to the size of the economy, or GDP, has been approaching the level of the most advanced European countries. This has improved hospital management, health care salaries and the availability of healthcare. Czech patients will get the most modern treatment for which only the citizens of the richest European countries will achieve. Prime Minister Fiala's cabinet, but by reducing payments for state policy holders, is fundamentally threatening the current positive trend in financing the best but also the most expensive health care. This also threatens the entry of new, innovative medicines, therapies and technologies, which, thanks to positive developments in health research, still come with new, previously unknown treatment options. By reducing payments for state insured persons and not taking into account inflation at their nominal level, the government has embarked on a path of reducing the volume of funds for the Czech health sector. That is why I cannot support this irresponsible financial cut, deepening the public health insurance deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u7	Thank you, too, for keeping time. And now a factual point, first of all... The Member has yet to wait, Minister Stanjura has made a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u8	Then to the honourable Member, through you. I don't know what you have in mind about the functioning of the government. The government doesn't work that one minister fights another. Yeah, well, when you had the general manager of the government, the technical deputy, who, by chance and custom, was called ministers, maybe that's what it was. Then the CEO decided anyway. The government decides in its entirety. I didn't fight the Minister, Minister Válek didn't fight me. We discussed all aspects of the state budget together, the government as a whole. First of all. So to blame Minister Válek that, as it was in the past, the minister failed, but theatrically on the outside, he said: I fought like a lion, but unfortunately I failed. If you've listened to any of the speeches made by President Babiš, the chairman of your movement, he said, like, three times, he's sympathetic to the proposal I'm making. Don't you find that suspicious? Well, it doesn't look suspicious to me, except for the conclusion. I've got an understanding, I've done the same thing, but I'm totally against it today. Let's move in legal terms and don't scare people. Well, you can haunt, of course, but it's nothing but haunting. Have health insurance plans changed for 2022? Yes or no? The answer is no. Has the payment decree changed for 2022? Yes or no? The answer is no. So where do you see a slump when there's a health insurance plan and there's a payment decree? I just don't see him there. If one of these basic parameters were to change, of course you would be right. Whether it's going up or down, we could say somebody stepped in. It can't even be done, let's just say, it's actually unrealized. About the mechanism. Yes, I'm... [[Alerted on time.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u9	Thank you. It is now registered with the factual remark of President Schillerová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u10	Mr. Secretary, let it go. You've been saying that for years, about the CEO and his deputies. I've never felt like an undersecretary unless I was a deputy. I was also Deputy Minister of Taxation and Customs at the Ministry of Finance. And maybe it's a little different. My honored colleague Kamal Farhan is not a lawyer. He's an erudite doctor. And he's right. Here we are discussing an amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. According to the law of jurisdiction, it's the law of the Minister of Health. And I never remember where my memory goes that this law would be passed by the Minister of Finance. I understand Minister Válek that he didn't want to do it. I see. I'm sure it was some kind of agreement between you two. Representing him here is nothing to do with anything. I'm sure you have the authority of the Prime Minister. But competently, it's the law of the Minister of Health. And also notice that they are mostly leaving the ANO movement, except for some exceptions, of course, because the former Prime Minister and Chairman of the ANO movement also appeared from an economic point of view, but mostly doctors of the ANO movement appear. This means people who are concerned about the health system and may expect the Minister of Health to respond to this. I understand he's been ill, and now I welcome him here, and I'm glad he's well, but of course he should respond, too, except for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u11	Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kamal Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u12	Dear Minister, the decree does not change. Yes. Because the decree is more or less like the law, and that's what the insurance companies normally do. I didn't mention once in my speech that the decrees and payments written in the decree didn't apply. On the other hand, I mentioned that the funds currently going to health are insufficient in terms of inflation and other facts. Insurance companies do not only have a decree, but they also work with various contracts and additions. I'm sure you know that. And, of course, there may already be this influence. At the same time, other innovative drugs can enter during the year. As I mentioned - 200,000 patients with atopic dermatitis. And the insurance company says he doesn't have the money. So I just said that by simply reducing funds into the Czech health sector, there will be restrictions on the entry of these innovative medicines or the delay in their entry into the Czech market. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u13	Another point of fact is registered by Minister Válek. But I can see that the Minister is interested and has not actually volunteered. So... [[Minister off the microphone.]] And, uh, he's already signed up. Now, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u14	I'm still sick, I've got tracheitis, laryngitis. But you can't really hear that, so I had to come. So really, if anyone really thinks that if the insurance companies withdraw 14 billion, that it will affect health care this year, then either they don't understand the system at all or they're knowingly lying. That's just nonsense. I would understand if the insurance bosses were here screaming, screaming, not taking 14 billion! But I've dealt with insurance companies, and I haven't picked up anything like that. The Board of Providers - and I have not changed anyone on the Board of Providers - is the Board of Providers, as appointed by Adam Vojtěch, with the same chairman. The Council of Providers, yes, expressed concern that there would be a problem with conciliation. It won't. I have first information that the conciliation procedure is going well. And I guaranteed them that the amendment would go through, that it would go through the valorisation of state insurance payments, and they were worried about next year's payments. Therefore, I ask that we discuss the valorisation intensively, so that the valorisation is approved and passed. And not only in the next year, but in the coming years, so that we can conciliation, even though I am aware that the Constitutional Court has finally decided that the Senate opinion is not correct, it would still be good for conciliation to be on a larger horizon. There's money on insurance reserves, so there's some money that's gonna go on, if it's absolutely necessary, to continue funding the care that we talked about, classic endoprosthetics, some more. That it would have any impact on central medicine, orphane, is total nonsense. I've dealt with the director of the SÚKL repeatedly. That's the one the Minister Vojtěch named her. I don't trade in furious ministry employees or my advisory councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u15	Thank you for keeping time. It is now registered with a factual remark by Minister Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u16	Plus the valorization formula. I'm in my performance last night, tonight, this morning, I don't remember, in which he said we were considering different parameters. And you named two of them. Finally, we have come to the conclusion that at this point we are working on a proposal for the same valorisation as with pensions. That is all inflation and half the growth in real wages, to be perfectly clear, and that is beyond the political mood of the government, as you said. I agree that, as the minimum wage has been decided so far, it was a big theater. Employers and employees have never agreed, and then the government, in your own words, has somehow decided according to the political mood. Even here, we're going to have a valorization formula to save ourselves this and have a clear idea of how we're going to proceed with this. And what was the government's decision last year, the government's decision plus CZK 200? Was that based on objective data, analysis? Or the political mood of the government? Read the reasoning provided by the ministers of that time. They thought at the end of the year there would be 10 billion or less on health insurance accounts. It was 51. That's really wrong. A lot. And I don't blame them, I'm just saying they've decided on the political mood. That's all they've decided. And the valorization formula is to prevent decision-making by political mood, past, present, future governments or something. And for Mrs. President Schillerová. I've passed the law on to the government, I've already told you. I'm not authorized to present it because the Minister of Health didn't want to defend it here. It is quite common in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. I also asked about the members of the Legislative Council of the Government, which we also inherited. This bill for the Government was prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and I was logically assigned as this member of the Government to defend this view in the Chamber of Deputies. [[alerted for time]] [[again alerted to the time]] I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u17	Time's up. Yes. Thank you. Now here is the factual point of President Schillerová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u18	Thank you. Thank you, Minister of Health, for being here. I wish him an early recovery, quite frankly. I'm here, you weren't here, which I understand, quoted from a quote from the Health Insurance Association, which declared that they just couldn't afford any more unplanned expenses. They will have to make the most of their savings under the upcoming conditions. Quote. It will be necessary to look back at the effectiveness, the benefit to the patient in some extremely expensive medicines. I'm not saying 2021 (?) They won't survive, even if they question it. That's a quote from their public appearance. Thanks to the reserves created by increasing the payment for state insured persons. Minister Stanjur, I've been to those meetings. And it wasn't, of course we fought an invisible enemy, a covid, it was very difficult to estimate. After the battle, every general is. Maybe one day you'll remember me. But it doesn't matter now. I was there. And we've put on the opinions of insurance companies. Yes, they'll survive, but we don't care about it anymore. I'm asking, and that was my question in front of the gremial pause, and I'm asking how it's gonna go. And you say the valorisation mechanism. I welcome it. It's what we wanted. We didn't make it. I'm not gonna make excuses, it was covid and so on. Because then, regardless of the political representation, it will be set. That's why we want the cooperation. Because it should survive different governments. But we just want to have some vision of how much we're going to pay for state insurance. Because you yourself said that here in the material, and I believe you, I don't want to question your words that there's a mistake. And to me, of course, I totally freaked out when I read it. I'm sure there's a mistake. I believe you. So that's going to be important. Just cooperate on it, because this government won't always be here, there'll be another government, and it should just work somehow. And the minimum wage. We have prepared, too. It's not that simple. [[She's being alerted for her time.]] I tried. There were about three different patterns, but it's a good, good direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u19	Now, therefore, the factual point made by Mrs Peštová, Mrs Berenika. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u20	I would like to address Minister Válek, through Madam President. Then I do not understand this challenge, which I read: If the State does not increase the payments for its insured persons, we will reduce the payments, warn the Union. - And now it is: The Union brings together six smaller insurance companies, but they provide services for 4.7 million insured people. This year, according to approved insurance budgets, the public health insurance system should manage a deficit of CZK 9.5 billion. Revenue was expected to increase by 6.3 % to CZK 431.2 billion and expenditure by 4.6 % to CZK 440.7 billion. The insurance companies' budgets, the so-called health insurance plans, accounted for an increase in the payment for state insured persons from January by CZK 200 to approximately CZK 1 967. So can you explain to me when insurance companies say -- and you said that if insurance companies yell, you're going to reflect on it in some way -- and I'm reading here that insurance companies are yelling?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u21	Mr Kamal Farhan is now registered with a factual remark, followed by Minister Válek and Minister Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u22	Thank you for the floor, I guess for the last time. The valorisation mechanism, I think everyone welcomes. And we'll look forward to seeing how it's set up and discussing it. There's no doubt about it. And the previous governments, not only the government, but the governments, thanks to the state insurance payments, could politically discuss what the health sector would do at what time and in what amount. This is going to apply, I suppose, or I hope, as long as possible. The most important thing is probably the discussion on the initial amount that we're going to bounce off. And I don't think I'm gonna say any more, 'cause I'm just gonna have to do this whole thing for nothing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u23	Thank you. It is now registered with the de facto Minister Válek and followed by Minister Stanjura. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u24	I have said this many times before, through Madam President, Madame Member, you must not believe everything you read in this place, it does not go well either. But I deal with the insurance companies, there's a group that meets regularly at the Ministry. Of course, the Member, through Madam President, Farhan will confirm this to you, there is also a board of providers where insurance representatives are, and we are debating it. The insurance companies' concerns apply for next year, this year it's hard to cut some people's payments, it's not even possible. Even if Marek Copperfield was in charge of the insurance company, he wouldn't make it. Al! But if, in fact, next year, the remuneration for a state insured person would be 1,500, 1,600. But what I said and promised here, and I didn't do something that I promised any of you here that we would talk about the valorization formula. I firmly believe that we will discuss him next week over the next period, discuss how we will set up the mechanism. Then here I am - and here I am, through Madam President, to answer you, Madame. You're right, of course you're right. But the problem is double. The first problem - where the extra money went. And I'm gonna set up an accurate analysis for the health committee on how much the insurance companies cost antigen tests, how much the PCR tests cost, and more. And this is not going to be a state, because we are no longer expecting these measures, nor am I planning them. And if they do, I would just like to remind you what my objection to the opposition was that this should not be covered by public insurance, that it should be covered by special money from a special package, and that is how the government will, of course, negotiate. There's no way this will be covered by public insurance. Then there's the third thing, and I'll make it short, and I've explained it in detail here. Last year, we passed the Act on maximum medical fees. And that is the main thing that the insurance companies are worried about right now, because they have to pay the medical devices the drugs in maximum payments, instead of exerting the pressure as promised by Mr. Deputy VZP Šmehlík, and lower the maximum prices. [[Time.]] On the contrary, I want to develop this pressure, and I want to lower the maximum prices, more money for treatment -- less money for the farm industry. [[Time, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u25	I'm sorry, but we need to keep it for two minutes. Now with the de facto Minister Stanjura, Mrs Peštová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u26	I think Mr. Health Minister and I are here to prove that the government is working as a team. We've left the restorative postcards and we're trying to find a good solution. President Schillerová said: notice that we are primarily represented by doctors. I'm in my performance, I don't know if in the first, second, or third, he said, with all due respect to doctors and nurses and all the medical staff, that the patient was the key in the public health insurance system. Let's not make this a professional doctor's debate. Of course, we are handicapped as patients compared to doctors. We are also not having a debate here, at least we laymen, about which method is effective, which is less effective, what results it brings. We're talking about funding, availability and quality of medical care, and that's in the real interest of patients. And it's logical, and I don't think anyone can argue with that. And if you didn't have that one press release from the Insurance Union, you probably wouldn't have anything to argue with. I was also at the meeting with the Minister of Health when we together presented plans for the state budget. And no one's suggesting payment will be lower. And what happened. So it was the Treasury experts that Andrej Babiš spit out about, I guess there's no expert there, unlike the former secretary who recommended them to me, I left them all behind. And even they can be wrong. And it was a mistake, and that's why I pulled the material from the government because I had a covid, I was in isolation, I didn't have enough time to get to know it in detail. And I respect that even great experts can be wrong, and that's why the government is gonna fix it, fix it for me, and the government's gonna be okay with that number. And so I invite the representative of the YES movement -- I will just say one sentence, so I don't have to have two minutes, I'm sorry I don't respect -- I'll try to find some time next week to discuss the valorisation mechanism together -- yesterday I offered that we could then easily submit the amendment together, because then there is a better chance that it will be valid in the long term. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u27	I am generous myself, but I will ask you again to keep time. Mrs Peštová and her two minutes with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u28	I don't know right now, but I think Minister Válek just left, I wanted to... [[Secretary Wark is reporting to be present.]] Where? I'm sorry, Minister. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. You said I shouldn't believe everything that says in the paper. Well, that's mostly information you try to get and make a picture of it. And besides, of course, they wrote in the papers - and I don't read just one newspaper, of course I'm trying to read a lot more so that I can get the picture - that insurance companies will, of course, have to reach into their reserves. Yes, we all know that. And now I'm more interested in the question of how long the reserves last. Those are the things that I'm saying, by drawing from the paper, you're looking for information, and the information is clear. This was one information I asked about, and I wanted to know where we were. And the other information is if it doesn't happen that the insurance companies are really gonna start sucking up their reserves, and then we're gonna get into really uncomfortable situations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u29	Now, Madam President Schillerová's point of order, sir... [[I'm going to move closer so I don't have to run.]] All right, all right, it'll come to you, too. [[With a smile.]] So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you for the invitation, I certainly accept it, I will take along some experts or some colleagues, thank you for that, because that is what we want, because it really should survive. [[to Minister Stanjur]] [[Minister for Nods]] And I also accept the proposal for a joint amendment, and I very much welcome it, because it should have a chance of being approved smoothly and it should have a chance, whoever is with that government. So I certainly welcome it and thank you for it. Then I wanted one more little thing. They may be wrong, and I still stand by the fact that there are erudite experts in the Treasury Department and I'm never gonna kick them. And I think they serve you just as much as they served me. They just made a mistake, and I'm sorry, of course, but I believe in your words, and I believe that this will straighten out. But I have a question for Minister Válek. Thank you for what he said here, I understood. Just please, the package. You said the covid stuff shouldn't be. It was a different time, you understand? We had to deal with the vaccine, pre-finance it, there wasn't time for the vaccine to be here quickly, there weren't vaccines, and so on. It was just a different time. It's a different time today, too, I understand. But what's the package? That's still one money. I didn't quite get it, but maybe it's because I don't know exactly what you were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u31	The Minister Válek is now registered with a point of fact, so far the last point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Two minutes is too small for a rattling old man. Technically - package, the point is that vaccines are, of course, not covered by health insurance. They were bought by the state and paid for. I'm doing an analysis on how much more we're going to have to pay billions for those vaccines that are ordered, but that's another thing. And when the vaccine is administered, the insurance company only pays, it always has to be. But antigen tests, PCR tests, which were ordered by various extraordinary measures, and these were the costs of tens of billions, all based on some 55 billion, I don't have an exact calculation yet, so this money actually went to insurance companies, but could be used to treat cancer patients and others. I don't think it's quite happy when they're competing, let's say, to pay for something the state orders as an obligation, with what is actually the treatment of patients, for which patients should be treated. It is better that this be part of some reserve package that serves for similar emergencies, disasters, and competes with individual state budget items, not to be taken from the money to be used to treat patients. [[Mrs Schiller is responding from the bench off the microphone.]] Yes, but not only state insurance companies contribute to the insurance package, but, of course, employees, employers, pay their insurance there and expect health care for it, and not that the money will be consumed on something the state will order, area testing and so on. I understand the situation. It's not a criticism, it's more of a philosophical reasoning. As to why the Ministry of Finance, he explained it here, but of course I was talking about minimum wage and so on and the Ministry of Finance has prepared much better, more sophisticated models with which the experts of the Ministry of Health agree, and I assume that this discussion will go somewhere. I'd check in one more time if I could.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u33	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. You may, Minister, but other colleagues will come forward and you will be third in line. So now, with a factual remark, Mr Vladimír Zlínský. Minister Stanjura will be ready and then Minister Válek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u34	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I will respond by your means to Minister Stanjura. I would like to say and think that doctors and health professionals form an integral part of the health system, and if they do not work well and work well, patients will not be satisfied either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Minister Stanjura will take action. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u36	When we talk about payments for antigenic and PCR tests, we don't go back to the past years, we look into the future. And I think they're paying, and the right principle should apply, who commands, so they're paying. And in this case, whoever ordered didn't pay. And I say don't take it as a criticism. This means that if such a measure, and I hope it did not have to repeat, I think it is much better when the state budget pays. I really think so. I don't want to have this debate today, but we're gonna get to it and it's not gonna be pleasant. An incredible amount of vaccines are ordered. It's gonna cost us incredible money. I don't know who predicted the number. I really don't know, but it looks like someone ordered about six to seven vaccines per resident of the Czech Republic. Well, that's crazy! We will look for a way to get out of this, but the Czech Republic has made a binding order. I understand precautionary, I understand that this could not have been accurately estimated and no one knew what vaccination would be, but an estimate of six to seven vaccines per citizen of the Czech Republic is terrible. And it's gonna cost us terrible money. And if we put it in health insurance like the previous ones in the years to come, there's really going to be a restriction on health care. But if we're saying that that boulder of tens of billions isn't going to be paid out of public health insurance, then of course the extent of the care provided will be higher and the quality will be higher. Let's keep the debate maybe more detailed about the ordered vaccines, but it's unbelievable. I don't want to be too critical yet, but I can't even believe it. The Minister is consulting his team, trying to minimize unnecessary costs for the state, but it's going to be really difficult.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u37	Time, Minister. Thank you for the time being and now with the de facto Minister Válek and will be prepared by President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Those invoices that aren't paid at the Ministry of Health, for the respirators, for the monoclonals that were ordered from South Korea at the end of November for half a billion and so on with the text, there's quite a lot of them. And, of course, I'm trying to figure it out. And I definitely don't want to open it here, I'm not opening it because I don't think it's correct. I have repeatedly said and I will repeat that I do not consider Vojtěch Adam the wrong Minister of Health. Period. Madam President, by your means, I would like to explain, of course, the insurance companies are concerned, and the debates are still going on with the insurance companies and will take place. They have to touch reserve funds, but it won't matter this year. We are preparing for the semester - and I would like the health committee to get it submitted - a plan on how the health insurance plan is being made so that we have it updated for the semester and we can see what the insurance plan for the next semester is now according to current data. In my opinion, the plan, at least based on the preliminary data I have, looks very optimistic. What I consider essential is the debate on maximum payments. And I really wouldn't want it to go away, the subject. We passed the law. It's a good law. I'm not criticizing him at all. And now we have two options: to leave it to hospitals and not to interfere at all with maximum payments, and those hospitals will, of course, have big back bonuses from companies, really big back bonuses, for some hospitals it can be tens of millions a month. Or, on the contrary, to exert maximum pressure over all our members of the board of directors, through all the authorities we have, through the SÚKL, and to try to reduce the price of maximum payments. Both are possible. If we lower the prices, they'll be left with more insurance money and they'll be able to redistribute it. If we leave the maximum remuneration, it's the ball on the insurance company's side, the hospitals will have much bigger back bonuses again. That's how the law went through the House last time, that's the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u39	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. And now he will speak with the factual President Schillerová and prepare Mr David Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u40	I don't want any more, because you said right, that we're dealing with a public health insurance policy so we don't get anywhere, but I remember the debate. Unfortunately, we don't have Adam Vojtěch here anymore. And I also agree that he was a good health minister who went through a really unprecedented hell. I wouldn't wish it on anyone. I remember what he had to deal with and so on. We'll let that go. But I remember the debates, some of them I've been to, not all of them, but I remember it being dealt with, often in the government, that it just couldn't be done any other way than through the insurance companies, buying those tests. There was no apparatus here. He built that command room back then, as they called it, but that was a disaster. There were ten officers sitting there, it was just a headache. I don't think he was ever supposed to do this, but that's just over now. But there was no other way to do it, so that's just how it was done. Now, of course, they didn't know how to refund it, so that's why she picked up not only because of that, but in the light of these circumstances, the payment for the state insured. So that's all the debate I remember. And the vaccines? Do you remember, Minister, that debate sometime last year, or maybe a year and a half, it got away terribly, and I won't tell you exactly when we were attacked by the media that we ordered a few vaccines? That we didn't use it, and we were trying to order less at the time. It was blamed that Denmark had ordered so much and so much. Do you remember that? So I assume under those orders there's someone signed that it was definitely just consulted with the insurance companies, somehow. I can't defend it right now, that would have to be Adam Vojtěch standing here, but I think it went through some kind of approved process. I'll speak from my experience, it's always under every such thing, it's done by a reporter, it's approved by x different degrees, and I don't think it even went to the level of the minister. At this point, I'm just predicting, I don't know exactly, but I remember today, and I think it's been dealt with on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, at least at the level of the President, that we've ordered a few so I can hear now that there's too many of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u41	Thank you. Mr David Kasal will now make a point of fact and then Minister Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I don't want to stir up the debate, but I would turn to Minister Stanjura for you, because that's right, you and I were talking over the microphone at the time, saying that we were exactly told that the vaccine wasn't enough to order more. And I was explaining how it was then that in the first phase, vaccines were ordered from three suppliers because it was not known which supplier would have the vaccine before. And yet, at that time, we were told to order more, so that there would be enough. And I know that the current Speaker of the House also responded and said: we will never blame you for this and we will never criticize you for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Válek will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. By your means, Madame, I understand this completely, and I also hope that I am very, very careful in the choice of words. I think that one of the reasons was the rapid exchange of ministers, and it is not a criticism of any of them, where not all the information was passed on. Deputys were also changing quite quickly. And even my experience was when I started, that it was not easy to trace all the contracts and find out - remember, when I showed them here in the Chamber of Deputies, they were blacked out and could not be found out anything. We talked about this on the Health Committee, and we tried in vain to get those contracts on the Health Committee, both opposition and coalition MPs. And now it's really not a criticism. It was just tense, it was hectic. We're in a situation now that we have an appointment for next year's vaccines. We have ordered a few, I think 20 million doses, but a relatively large number of doses, vaccines that de facto will have to be taken and paid, which is in the order of several billion, 10 billion, 12, I don't have the exact calculations, I put it together, I will, of course, submit it to the House for discussion. And it's not really a criticism, because the times were tense. The states acted the same way. But we're gonna have to deal with this. And I'm sure I'll find out who ordered it. I was very surprised when I found out that actually, and I repeat it again, the last order for monoclonal antibodies left at the end of November last year in almost half a billion to a company that never brought anything to us, the monoclonals from South Korea at a time when we already knew that they were not fully effective. And the order was executed purely on the basis of an e-mail sent, which was not signed by an official, and there is no written order to it, there is no contract, and yet we are required to implement it. But that's just a detail. And, of course, in that hectic time, in the tension, in the confusion, these things happen. That's not something I want to criticize hard. And it has nothing to do with this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u45	Thank you, Minister. And now Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will take action. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u46	To Mr Kasal, through you. I think it would be good to look at time. We had the debate at the moment when there was a deficiency in the first vaccination. And I think it'll be good if even the colleagues who run the health committee, when the Health Department charts it, get that timeline with whoever ordered it. But it's catastrophic when the Minister of Health gets contracts that are blacked out. I don't get it. Someone stepped up to something like that. She can't actually be checked when everything's there... Imagine our famous register of contracts, imagine if some ministry added a contract, where the Ministry of Finance might be written, and then nothing. That's not normal. I was just making an announcement that there was a problem. I told you I can't even believe it. And we'll have the data at our disposal. I'm reading about Poland's efforts to get out of this serf contractual relationship. But it's a European-level thing. As a Member State, it is not the only one that will do that. But we have to be active in this, and we have to have analyzed in what shape it's getting into. Moreover, such a practice of dictation from these companies continues today, when it is long after the start of the covid crisis. I do not think that Member States should approach this because this is no longer a crisis situation. The situation is more stable on the vaccine market and so on, yet such as you, I say it politely: take it or go, pay it forward and we'll see if we can deliver it to you at all, but you have to pay it. I think this is something that should be rejected at European level. And we as the Czech Government will be active in this. If we're successful, there's another thing. But we can't approach such contractual relationships at normal times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u47	Thank you. And now with the de facto Minister Válek and then Mrs Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry, I have the contracts now, of course. I got them in full. I am gradually getting everyone and processing them precisely because, not that I want to criticize any of those who signed them, but precisely so that we can be actively able to do so, and here I hope that it will be cooperation across all the political parties, that not only the government, but also the political parties will face it, so that we can make a hard speech about, for example, next year and talk about whether it is necessary to produce vaccines for which there will be insufficient use, and if there is no need to lower the price. I, of course, deal with colleagues from Slovakia, I was visiting Slovakia and we discussed with the Slovak Minister, they will chair Visegrad to raise the topic on this platform. I have certainly raised this issue in Brussels at the Health Ministers' meeting and will continue to raise it. We're gonna have to find a way out of this. And it is precisely what you have formulated through Madam President, Madam President, so that is what makes me feel that I am an optimist of insurance parties and insurance companies at all, because we are not expected to do so this year without any doubt just because you have repeatedly mentioned that we are lucky to have an omicron here, even though it is still a deadly disease, needless non-insects and seniors who do not have, say, a third dose will still not be necessary, and we have been able to put an end to the measures, it will not be necessary to have such hard measures and will not be such costs for the system, and thus the money that has been delivered there precisely because of the costs is gradually being delivered to insurance companies, at least part of them, or a large part of them remains just to provide standard health care, so as to increase the payment for hip endoprotesses, in order to shorten the time. And that's why I wanted the amended insurance plans for the second semester to figure out how much insurance reserves are actually actually now, when these costs are deducted, and I'm gonna be able to give them a clear prediction as well as the calculation of the formula for state insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u49	Thank you for keeping time. And now, with the de facto Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I just have a question. When it opened, Minister, through Madam President, were the treaties already blackened on the part of Europe? Because I remember asking Minister Vojtěch at the time if he could deliver those contracts to me, and he had to, the ministry, ask somewhere in Europe and there was some provision that did not allow it. And then I'm wondering if we're somehow committed to taking the vaccines regularly. I don't want to defend it, the fact that we have an order this big. But if it really was the fault of someone ordering a large amount, or it was a condition to end up with those contracts, that otherwise they wouldn't have just any vaccines. [[Wouldn't we?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u51	Thank you, Madame. And now Minister Válek will respond to the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u52	Thank you, Madam President. That's not where I wanted to get the debate. Really, and I'm saying this to the cameras, I'm telling you all, I'm not blaming anyone. That would make me feel like a jerk. I got the contracts blacked out, I showed them here. How much of the blackout was the regulation, let's say, of some big treaty between the European Union and Pfizer, I don't know. How many of these decisions needed to be made by the ministry or individual ministers, she was a number of them, I don't know either. I am, of course, acting, after all, that is what Mr Babiš said to you, Mr Honza Blatnýý is my longtime subordinate and colleague, so I am talking to him about it. So did Jarda Štěrba, Professor Štěrba. So I'm talking to Honza Blatný about what the steps were, what he was doing, why he did it, what led him to it, because the time was really hectic. Let us just talk about the fact that we are in a situation and try to make it for the Czech Republic, and I think that everyone is interested, and it doesn't matter what party it is, so that there is as little damage as possible for the Czech Republic, so that we don't pay for anything that we can't make good use of. Let's talk about the need for vaccine supplies, because we're gonna re-inoculate, covid just doesn't disappear. And if we don't want them to die for nothing in the fall, if we want retirement homes not to die for nothing, if we want the seniors not dead, but alive, we're gonna have to re-inoculate them. It's just reality. We don't have to believe it, but we do. On the other hand, we have no use for 23 million doses of vaccines, which is also obvious. And a number of European Union countries have the same problem. The strategy was complicated and complicated back then, the situation was not simple. And beware, I would not want to criticize the European Union in this case, either, because many of you have said so here. I'll do it again. The fact that the negotiations were central reduced the prices of the vaccines to very low amounts. I would like to continue this discussion on central medicines and orphanes and reduce the price by central purchases for Czech citizens. This is one of the objectives that we have in our Presidency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u53	Thank you. Now we have exhausted all the factual remarks and we will continue with properly logged in. And before I give the floor to Mrs Věra Adámková, I will read the apologies. Mr Hubert Lang apologizes from the meeting from 19.40 until the end of the day for health reasons. She also apologizes to Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová between 19.20 and 21.00 for family reasons. Minister for Legislation Michal Šalomoun apologizes for 22 hours until the end of the day for work reasons. Furthermore, there is a note from Minister Rakušan from 18.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. This is an apology and now I beg Mrs Věra Adámková and Mr Julius Špičák will prepare himself. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u54	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is exactly how one is set, how beautifully it will be to continue the discussion, and now with these factual remarks and everything is a little different, but maybe it's better, because we're just going to talk a little bit differently. I would say something about what has now been discussed here, because of course it was at a time when the General Health Insurance Company played an important role precisely because we had the money saved there, after all, both the rapporteur and Professor Svoboda are members there and they know that the money was there, which is why we could be of immediate assistance at some stage, that is true. Otherwise, as far as health insurance plans are concerned, and that is why I do not think that it is good to take reduced money into health care, and I am very pleased to note that there was a promise that was made during this discussion, that there is some formula that will be discussed, which, of course, when we were preparing, I did not know about it, so I am very glad. Of course, we'll wait for the result, because after all, don't praise the day before the evening, as it usually is. But as for the health insurance plans, I'm sure the General Health Insurance Company, gentlemen can confirm that, but we know something from the other insurance companies, this is not, please, a nice year 2022, that the concern would be ours. [[unintelligible]] Not even worried about the hospitals. That doesn't seem to be a problem. But where there's a problem, if we don't stand up properly to the state insurance payment, which is really an army, it's not a few dozen people, it's 2023. And we know that for sure. We also know this from the communications of the Presidents and the individual insurance companies, and that is why, of course, we ask because the terrain is asking us. So let me just remind myself of something here so that we can continue on. I'm not going to name who's all the state's insurance policy, I think one of my previous speakers said a few hours ago, so we all know that in the field. But we also know what the whole demographic tree of our society is, which means, of course, that the people that the state pays for are a small army. And, of course, there is one other thing I would like to say, that insurance companies' health insurance plans, my friends, are built on planned money for state insured people as well. So the moment we lower the payment there - I say, 2022 won't just have an impact, which I think we can say, there are certain reserves where those insurance companies cover this, unless there's another thing like an autumn extraordinary infectious wave of anything, which I hope they won't, I wouldn't want us to, of course. But the year 2023 would have been a problem. And that is why we have to deal with this and we cannot say that we agree with this, because there could really be a significant reduction in health care for our citizens, especially because, and I said it here too, and I think that as a Republic we did well that we offered relatively very good conditions for war refugees from Ukraine to be sure that they would be taken care of. That's what I think is a sign of the maturity of our society. But even these people aren't 10,000, so maybe that wouldn't be the problem. And we need to know when we invite them here and offer them something that we can give them. Then we can't say, "I'm sorry, we've forgotten and we've miscounted it." That wouldn't be good. Another thing we need to take into account, and I was brought up by Minister Válek with these vaccines, please nicely, these children, and they are again a small army, they do not have vaccinations against papillomavirus, nor against meningococca, and of course because they are state insured, that's what the claim is. So I would also ask the Ministry here if the Minister is not here, but we will certainly tell him another time, so that we can certainly get information on how the prediction is secured for the needs of this preventive vaccination. Because they're supposed to keep their promises, and we promised they'd have state insurance status. Another thing, please, that happens nicely, and surely no one is to blame, is inflation. The inflation, you know very well that it's just really not pretty. The estimates that were probably still so euphemistic, but she's about 10, 15 percent based on what we see from individual commodities, and we shop on world markets. So, of course, there can be a very bad situation for these insurance companies, because the idea of someone coming out of the Czech Republic and they say, "That's great, we'll give you special discounts" doesn't work. Of course, this is always a tough argument, and we need to have the tools, modern medicines to modernize, and to make sure that we can provide the care that we have started. So this is what we're supposed to have. And then there's another thing, and that's obviously a thing that seems very marginal, but it's not, and that's energy. Hospitals are already getting increased power backups, and since hospitals are paying big bills, those backups are back up high. Where's the hospital gonna get the money? Only from the insurance company. And if the insurance company doesn't have the money to pay for the health care done, it's not chimeric, it won't be able to live up to its obligations. That means, maybe then there might be a problem with paying the energy invoice. And I would hate to have to have to limit this comfort for our patients in some way. We must realise that what awaits us until the end of this year is, of course, the care that we provide to our patients, which was postponed within the two years of the covid, which, of course, was unprecedented, put us in front of completely different things, and frankly, no country has done anything quite well to say that it should have been otherwise, so, of course, here I think, but, as far as possible, all the paramedics have done what they could. And I'd like to turn one more thing, and that's central care, and I've also been brought up by Minister Válek. Please, nicely, I'm not going to read you a special-care phone book here, but I would just like to turn your attention to some very important diagnoses, such as centers for cerebrovascular care for patients with an ict. Vascular brain events are not limited to the elderly, they concern young people, and they need to be cared for, which, of course, is also costly. We have centers of highly specialised oncogynecology care, but on the other hand, there's a lot of people who are state insured. We have oncology centers here, of course. I won't read it in detail. We have highly specialised haematological care here. We have complex oncology centers here. We have centers here for severe lipid metabolism disorders, i.e. fats. And there are, of course, very expensive drugs moving everywhere. The idea that we would transfer some of these patients, that they could pay for something themselves, and that the colleagues also know very well, is chimera please nicely. Because she doesn't get away with the long-term treatment, like the metabolic disorders, so there's no escape if the patient wants to continue treatment. And even the so-called cheap treatment is about eight, nine thousand a month for fat metabolism disorders. And that's quite expensive for these people when they're supposed to give months and months. So even patients who didn't fully meet the criteria and wanted to pay for the treatment, usually after six months, after nine months, they just say they can't afford it. So for those patients that we give this to and meet the criteria, it's necessary that we have all of this. On the contrary, what we should have, and I am once again with state insured people, are children. As you know, fortunately, a healthy child is a little upset, or he's going to get hurt, and we should provide even more comfort in treating it, including all possible lightened plasters, all possible lightened braces and the like, and there again we just have to have the money for it. That's all this is about. [[20.00 hours]] Another thing, of course, is the quality of both preparations and preparations that are needed in cardiology, gastroenterology, nephrology, but again, we have to have money for them. And reducing that payment by a few hundred per person in that army really millions of people are then a significant but significant deficit that can backfire on us. Therefore - and I want to be positive - I hope that this is very well consulted and discussed and that there will indeed be a very serious solution, including inviting the opposition, thank you to Minister Stanjur, who is no longer here, because we need to know that this is secure for our citizens, because if it were not for us, friends, there will be a 100% reduction in health care and a reduction in quality and availability, and I would not be happy to live to see that. I am very proud of the fact that in the Czech Republic - and few people realize it again - we have really solidarity in the provision of health care, and in this provision we have some escapees. I'm very glad we're gonna follow them, but please, let's not give them up, let's make sure that the state insured has the best care possible, because if there wasn't an increase, I hope to be sufficient, but I don't know, we didn't see any calculations - so I have to point out that the quality of health care is quite clear for me. [[unintelligible]] [[President: Time, Madame.]] Yes, it's very clear to me, and we can't disown it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u55	Yes, thank you for keeping time. And now Mr Julius Špičák is in the debate, but I see that he is absent, and it is Mr Jiří Mašek's turn, and I do not see him here, and Mr David Kasal, I see him here, so please, Mr Kasal. Mrs Ivana Mádlová will be ready. Please, you have the floor. [[The Member shall speak outside the microphone to the President.]] You want some? Yes, so we're just calling ahead, just like we practiced yesterday, maybe today, if the MP doesn't make his performance in ten minutes, he'll continue for another ten minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me to make my contribution to this press. I'll start off a little untraditional. It's a bit of a shame that the Minister isn't here, but like he said from the start, it's good to talk about numbers. I heard today whether I remember well or maybe yesterday that insurance companies have 50 billion in their accounts. That's true, but those insurance companies run the fund-raiser, and those funds that are really gonna let go for the health care thing are about half of them. From the point of view, there was a lot of information about how much it costs. And we were pointing out the most expensive procedures. I took the liberty of taking one for a demonstration. I have to cover up a little bit. [[He's showing the material.]] This is an ordinary swab we're doing to anybody's nose, neck, and I'm sending it to you that it's not a covid swab. I was surprised when we billed him now, or I received a bill from the lab, and only this simple examination costs CZK 1,784. We are talking about a fee of CZK 1,900, or CZK 1,500, which should be for state insurance. So one swab uses this money that we need for everything else. I was very glad to hear that the valorization scheme should be set up. I remember when I was a representative of the House in Germany in 2016 and I was very interested in one thing. We in our health care have not organized what money we will use it for. We have them for health services. In Germany they were divided so that what insurance companies paid was for the operation of hospitals, what came from the Federal Government and from individual governments, which was 2 and 3 percent respectively, it was used for investment, with the fact that the individual health establishments could accumulate the money, the financial amounts, and then finance the individual and larger investment actions. From this point of view, then, is it a question of the fact that the valuation scheme is talking about what? Is this about the money being just for business? Or will the money be for investment? That's why I think it would be nice to talk more about it in the future, so it's really set up for our health care. Everyone points out that the year 2022 will be no problem. I'll think about it, because by being head of the department, I have to report and finance, I'm doing DRG manager, and the diarrhea I banished at the beginning of the year, I get 22,000 crowns for it, and at the end I get 22,000 crowns for it. I can maximize power by 5 percent. If we're talking here, and everyone's just pointing out what we're getting for endoprosthetics, on medications, but we have to talk, folks, not just about energy, but about food. A director told me that they are currently increasing their diet or the food they import by 8 percent. And what happens after the holidays? What's it gonna look like? And the professor here already mentioned that energy reserves are increasing. And to the hospitals, to the county and district chiefly, because state-established or, respectively, state-controlled, there can be some money from the Ministry, so those are paid only and only what they get from the insurance companies. So if I take that I can increase output by 5%, inflation is going to be 13 or 14 percent, so how does it get there? And the second narrow throat, which is, is that if the money goes to those insurance companies, they'll be there, but just as everyone here argued, there's a payment decree for 2022 written, and no one in history was counting on a significant increase in energy prices during the year, and now it doesn't matter if it's petrol, if it's oil, if it's electricity, and the payment decree just doesn't count on it. I'm not able to tell you how much it's going to be, but on the other hand, we have to say that if we need to get money to hospitals, in the second half of the year, it's going to have to be essentially a compensatory decree that you're going to get the money to those hospitals, otherwise it's going to be on insurance accounts. And that's a fact that hasn't been mentioned yet. From this point of view, I would like to propose one thing, and that I welcome the fact that the valorisation mechanism will be proposed, it would be a good idea to ask in a forward-looking way how the money will be secured for investment in the health sector in general, and that is why I would like to propose whether it would be worth finishing up the press about the valorisation, so that we really think about it, because reading it only at second reading is a little bit of a risk. And let's set up the valorisation mechanism so that it benefits our health service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, Mrs Ivana Mádlová will come forward and prepare Mrs Andrea Babišová. Please, you have the floor. [[Mrs Madlová off the microphone to the President: Can I also ask for an extension?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u58	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad that the Minister of Finance has said that the patient is the key, that we are talking about financing the patient's availability of care. This is certainly very important information and report, but I do not know how it goes hand in hand with reducing the payment for state insured persons. [[20.10 hours]] We've basically been talking about this for hours from different sides, basically using different arguments from different segments of care, data, economy and so on. There's a number of things we can't agree on. Health is composed of various segments. There's been a mention of the practitioners, there's been a mention of the bedding facilities. And I would like to bring you closer to another segment of care that is virtually impossible without health care, and this segment is defined by the Public Health Insurance Act in Section 22 and it is a special outpatient care. This is about providing care to patients with acute or chronic disease. They are people who have a certain disability, whether mental or sensory, or physical, and in any case depend on helping another person. They are also patients who require palliative care or are at a terminal stage. I've been working in the Department of Health for 37 years, and I've been working on health-social boundaries for the past few years. I have experience from the intensive care unit, from the acute bed, from the follow-up care, with the management of the health care department. I have experience from the health insurance company where I worked, so I think I have quite a lot of health awareness. I would like to bring you closer to what such health care in homes with a special regime contains. It is generally known or rather aware that these facilities are for seniors who can no longer take care of themselves at home or are unable to take care of relatives for various reasons. And then they're people who have such a disease to do it that they require placements in homes with special care, and these devices are called homes with a special regime. I have personal experience with work and operations in these facilities. It is a segment where there are simple discussions on health care payments every year. And it's true that these clients, as a matter of fact, patients, they really can't do without health care, whether internship, specialists, or general nurses. These clients usually have Alzheimerův's disease, or dementia, or Parkinsonův's disease, which are really diseases that don't allow them to stay in their own bathroom, and they need special care. Both social workers, or caregivers, and health professionals work in these homes, so they are primarily general nurses, practical nurses, and they are also physiotherapists, and they are often nutritional therapists. All these health professionals are subject to the Law 96 on non-medical care, which means they are health professionals, and their work is essentially dependent on funding from the healthcare system. These clients are also state insured with respect to their age. This means that they are mostly persons over 65 years of age, the average age is about 80 years of age. That means they're state insured people that we're talking about here today and for which there will be a reduction in the remuneration from the state. These patients, I'm not going to say clients right now because they're clients of social services, but today I'm going to talk about them as patients who require health care, so these patients are cared for by a general practitioner, and in those homes, they're actually nurses, where there are clearly given health insurance requirements, so that these devices can work at all. They are general sisters, as I said, practical sisters, but they are also specialized nurses, with a clear specific performance. And if the sister specializing in this home isn't, that performance can't be realized. And it's a pretty crucial performance, because it's actually an admission, where the nurse has to assess the client's medical condition according to certain criteria, so that the nursing care can begin at all. The requirements are also strict in terms of the number of staff, which means that if these homes have continuous operation, six and a half-time sisters are required. I guess I don't have to stress that even in these facilities it is a huge problem to get a general nurse's profession, because it is a job that is extremely physically, and especially mentally demanding, and we cannot compete in these facilities with salaries in beds, often not even with ambulances. So the situation is not simple and our clients require relatively demanding and specialised nursing care. Specialized or more specialised performances are performed there, except for the basic care that requires a certain erudic, and those sisters really need to renew their education, they need to complement the news in these performances. And so that they can go to training, it has to do with health care payments, because, of course, where else do they get the money? It is therefore necessary to keep the erudition in line with the latest findings in this regard. Because if there isn't actually an update of the news, or if nurses didn't attend these educational events, there might also be the use of wrong procedures, wrong materials. There could be unnecessary complications, and I think that is obviously very undesirable. So it must also be taken into account that not only the care is being paid for, but, of course, even after the further education. As for the specialized performances, I would like to draw attention to those most frequently performed. It is, for example, medication. I'm going to mention giving him oral medication so you can imagine what it means for a patient who has Alzheimerův's disease or dementia to give him a cure because he's not capable of it at all. He doesn't remember taking the medication, of course he's absolutely incapable of taking the medication. And the medication has to be administered by a nurse, not by a social worker, because it's a professional performance, and the nurse has to evaluate the patient's condition in some way before she administers the medicine. And it's very hard to accept the drug because these patients don't understand what you want them to do. If you say "open your mouth" to them, they don't understand you, they don't understand what you want them to do. Swallow, take the medicine, it's all a very lengthy process, very demanding, which requires specific communication, a specific approach. You can't raise your voice to them, you can't be fast, you have to wait when they refuse, because then they go into aggression. This means that you really can't do without the health care worker in these facilities. Then, if you manage to administer the medicine, you need to check the oral cavity. Telling the client he's got to stick out his tongue. Again, he often doesn't understand what's required of him. This means that it's really very complicated, and if these patients don't take drugs, it's a big problem. Because they don't just have dementia, but they obviously have diseases that are related to old age. That means there are stroke states. They are urological patients, they have gynecological problems, they require an ophthalmologist, but they also require, of course, a psychiatrist who follows them. It means that you can see that patients in these devices don't just require...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u59	Madam, I'm sorry, your first ten minutes have passed. Now, please continue, you have another ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u60	Thank you. This means that it is not only the basic care of the practice and general nurses, but these clients require outpatient specialists, which is not taken into account in any way, because it often treats these homes as homes, where the client actually spends his rest of his life in some way, that we only engage in social activities, walks and so on. But these patients really have a number of health problems, and they just need the health worker. [[20.20 hours]] This means that even these clients or patients require ambulance specialists to be transported to an ambulance because they have 90 percent of their mobility problems and therefore have to be imported to a specialist. Getting appointments to a specialist today isn't easy at all. Those terms are often long. These clients also require surgical and orthopaedic surgery. When it comes to elective performances, such as hip replacement, the waiting times are becoming very problematic there, and I think it was said here yesterday that the waiting times for orthopaedic surgery are extended, and there is also a hip replacement among them. And that's actually what patients in these facilities need. I myself have a recent experience with this, when it really was very difficult to get or get a deadline for surgery and hip replacement, and this term has been extended, because it plays a role even after the pandemic, when there are some delayed performances, when the surgeries are catching up and the paramedics aren't catching up, and of course it's a huge problem. The problems are diverse, and that's what we've been talking about, that there's some limited medical capacity, operations, operating room capacity, and so on. Then I won't go back to that. Otherwise, we need to realize that these homes with a special regime are really needed. Their capacity is insufficient and data indicate that there are approximately 70,000 people diagnosed with Alzheimerův's disease. And to do that, you have to add those who have dementia for other reasons. The fact that this number is rising very significantly is also due to the fact that health insurance companies have included a special examination in the reimbursement of practices. This examination should be carried out, I believe, once every two years in connection with a preventive examination. And it's certainly a good thing that this examination is being done, but it's also linked to the fact that it's revealed that this disease is actually occurring at a higher frequency than one might actually expect. Otherwise, the treatment of Alzheimer' s disease is quite costly. Insurance companies report that the average cost per person is about CZK 43,000, and health insurance companies have calculated that the patient with Alzheimerův's disease is an average of over CZK 54,000. This data is traceable. So it's above the average cost of a normal patient. So that's something that needs to be taken into account. These clients or patients also require compensatory aids because they have mobility problems, require incontinent (?) aids. Most of these patients need incontinence (?) aids that have now begun to pay more, I think, in the third degree of incontinence. They need crutches. They need walkers. They need carts. There's some cash. So it's also a real concern about this segment that the payments will or may increase in 2023. I don't reckon that in 2022, and we were so assured that there would be no change, so hopefully that will be the case. However, it is not clear what will be financed by 2023 and beyond. And there are legitimate concerns about this segment. I am still a member of the segment for health-social boundaries - and, of course, the concerns about this segment are that they will pay more for these compensatory aids that will increase the cost of incontinence aids. It has to do with the medical bills, actually. That's what my previous doctors have been telling you about. They can basically pick up or extend the waiting period for examinations in specialists or just for these elective orthopaedic surgery. This, of course, is a problem because these elderly patients suffer from enormous joint pains, so if the waiting times in these orthopaedic surgery are prolonged, then it means that this partially moving patient becomes a completely immobile patient and stays in bed because he cannot walk for great pain, and it doesn't affect the pain medications that he understands. Otherwise, from other specialized performances, I could name for example percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy in nutrition, that is, when a special nutrition set is actually placed across the abdominal wall into the stomach, when it is a temporary solution when these patients can't take food, and it is in Alzheimer's disease or dementia that there are really problems with nutrition. Again, this requires a specific approach of both the nurse and the doctor and the nutritional therapist, because then the patient is at risk of falling into malnutrition and being kachectic, which is a very undesirable condition. I tried to bring you closer to the issue of homes with a special regime, and I actually wanted to bring you closer and stress that patients in these homes will in no way be able to do without health care. This health care is important for them to be able to have a dignified and quality of life in this combination of the various diseases they have, and it would be somehow very undesirable in our culture and in the set quality of care so that this segment can deal with the fact that from 2023 there should be some freezing of payments for health care in these facilities. The Minister of Finance insists that payments for state insured persons be reduced, that can be understood to some extent. After all, there's no medic, he's never worked at the Health Department, and I understand that for him, keeping his promise before the election that he's gonna cut his government debt, so he wants to keep it. It would be a shame if it were at all costs and whatever it takes. But what is incomprehensible is that this is essentially advocated by the Minister of Health, who is a doctor and has worked in health care all his life. I'm sure he's doing some management positions, too. That means he knows the Health Department very well. And that he's doing it at a time when there's no clear valorisation mechanism. We've been talking about him all along, but it's practically just that it could be linked to that parameter or that parameter, but in the end, there's nothing presented yet. We are really happy to be able to participate in this, but in a situation where nothing is clear so far, reducing payments for state insured people is a very unfortunate step. And the Minister himself actually said in March in a radio interview that there will certainly not be a major deterioration in the availability of care, but of course it can happen, for which we must all gradually begin to prepare, that the waiting time for the doctor will be extended. Thus, at the 11th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we were assured that it guarantees that the budget is set, it will not lead to a deterioration in health care, so that in March it will begin preparing citizens for the extension of waiting periods in the ambulances. I think that's an unfortunate move, and let's keep our fingers crossed for all our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u61	Thank you, Madame. And now, with a point of fact, Mrs Helena Válková is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u62	Thank you. I may not need two minutes. I followed with interest the performance and speech as well as the content, as well as the form of my colleague Dr Mádlová. Unfortunately, I have to sign every word here in this regard because I have experienced the care of my mother. Started with dementia, ended with Alzheimer. And all the problems she's been describing, I've been through with myself. Seven years, really, that got worse. Even from the partial mobility, partial immobility to total immobility. I've been through everything with her, including the incontinence. [[20.30 hours]] I will not repeat the details that Mrs Mádlová, through you, Madam Vice-President, has described much better. But I only want to pause for one moment. All this time - and it was located in an excellent facility at the Palata, the great director of Mr. Procházka - faced this special hospital, it is a specialised facility, with a great problem of lack of nurses and lack of staff that could pay so that it would provide the very clients who were located there and whose condition got worse, care that they would like to provide and want. And when I imagined it going on here, so I projected it, and I said, it's a memory of my mom, at least I'm gonna get out and say, please, consider the fates of the particular families that are then forced to put their loved one somewhere else after five years of care at home, and that device will not have the means to give them the care that the family provided her, in qualified... okay. [[Time warning]] [[once again alert]] You all know what I wanted to say, and I thank my colleague for making such a beautiful description. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u63	Yes, thank you. And now there is Mrs Andrea Babišová, Mr Lubomír Wenzl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good evening, colleagues, members of the government. I won't be as extensive as my colleague before me. I'm from North Moravia, so I'm gonna talk short, hard, as we're used to in our country. And it's really been said a lot all along. But I still can't forgive myself for a little short talk. I have worked in health care, or I have worked in health care for over 22 years, most of which have been in managerial positions, and of course I am very concerned about this subject. I am a fundamental member in the quotes of the Bohemia City Hospital, where I have experienced all my professional life from scratch, and therefore I would just like to make a brief comment today on the change in the budget and on the reduction of our health care finances. The reduction of payments by the State for its insured persons at first glance seems completely incomprehensible and, moreover, illogical. We assumed that after the cod pandemic, no one would question the need for financially healthy health care. We were really wrong. Ideology triumphs over reason and numbers. The reduction in payments and the creation of an internal debt of 14 billion must be shown somewhere. Objectively, the health sector is most affected by government cuts. In addition to reducing health insurance payments for state insurance, the Ministry of Health's budget has also decreased by 5.5 billion compared to the original plan and by more than 1 billion compared to 2021. [[Health]] Incomprehensible and unexplained for us paramedics. Why are we concerned about the development of the situation? For this year, the health insurance budget has been set as deficit. Primarily, without cost of covid, the deficit climbed up after counting the cost of raising salaries to minus 17 billion. To do this, the costs of testing, which the Ministry of Health itself estimated at 10 billion by the end of February, must be added. This figure is dated 24 February this year. Of course, vaccines and other covid drugs will also need to be paid. Indeed, there are some 50 billion balances on health insurance accounts. But if we subtract the above costs and consider that monthly CZK 37.5 billion is needed to cover and operate insurance companies, this balance sheet is completely different. Remains are total, not only in reserve funds. To this end, it should be borne in mind that the Ministry of Health will have to issue a new decree that will compensate for increased costs for hospitals and other healthcare institutions. After that, we have absolutely nothing left for this year, and we are at the beginning of the year and we do not know what will come. Covido's time will still have an impact, both on patients and health professionals, and we should therefore strive to ensure that health care is financially stable. And this is not yet taken into account in these simple numbers the huge financial costs that the current refugee crisis brings. At the same time, along with the unknown future development of the epidemic situation that awaits us in autumn, the government should be persuaded to act responsibly and planned and planned to re-evaluate the cuts for state insured persons. Let us honestly say that health care will be available and financially secure, as set up by us politicians. Everything is a matter of priorities. We do not know how the current situation in Ukraine will turn out. However, we know for sure that we can count on the healing of wounded tens and hundreds of Ukrajinec who will be transported to us after the possible stabilisation of the situation in Ukraine. If I directly quote Dr. Balík's doctor: It will be similar to the situation in 2014 after Russia's aggression in Crimea and Donbas. From this scenario, the social composition of refugees into the Czech Republic will be 80 percent burdened with surgery, gynecology and pediatrics. In the event of the collapse of Ukraine and its occupation, we can expect up to 1 million refugees in our country and the burden will be enormous not only for intensive medicine. This field is the most expensive in medicine and the cost of an intensive care bed is up to 40 to 45 percent of hospitalization costs. This also implies some responsibility for the health system and the budget for ordining diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Finally, let me quote the President of the Czech Medical Chamber, Dr. Kubek: The current situation in Ukraine undoubtedly poses a challenge to our health system that occurred at a time when Czech health care has had a very difficult period in connection with the covid-19 epidemic, which, moreover, has not yet ended properly. Many health performances must have been postponed, but they cannot be postponed all the time because our patients need care. The Czech Medical Chamber has already turned to the Prime Minister's open letter with an urgent call for the government to reconsider its savings plan and to give the health care as much money as it needs. Our health care is in a situation where it is impossible to cut at the moment. I fully agree with this statement, and I therefore express my disagreement with the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u65	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss this point. Next, Mr Lubomír Wenzl is duly enrolled in the debate and Mr Miloslav Janulík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u66	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the present point by the view of a person who does not have a medical education but professionally linked to this area. Logical, common sense understandable, but especially meaningful would be the addition of funds to the system, and not, as is now on the agenda of this meeting, the withdrawal of funds. Our country has had two difficult years in connection with the management of the Coronavirus, which has affected every citizen in our country. It should be noted that the health sector was one of the main pillars, not to mention the most important pillar in the management of this epidemic. Thanks to the enormous deployment of health professionals, medical, nursing staff, but also non-medical workers working in this sector, who are essential for maintaining the operation of a medical facility, and it does not matter whether it is a public or a private sector, and regardless of whether it is an acute bed care provider or an outpatient care provider, the economy has not been completely halted at all times. And now, in the case of his approval, the proposed proposal shows that cuts will hit the health sector the most. That doesn't seem completely normal to me. I do not understand, it is unclear to me why this step has been taken and why the Minister of Health has agreed to this and why he is not fighting for the department he leads. [[20.40 hours]] It should be said that the epidemic of coronavirus in the health sector has affected the citizens of our country, the patients. There has been a restriction of care in hospitals, whether in the outpatient or, and there in particular, in the bed care segment, partly due to health care diseases, because they are also people, but mainly since it was necessary to completely change the operation of hospitals so that care for patients with covid disease could be secured. There has been a reduction in preventive examinations, but also a limitation and at some time a complete cessation of planned performances, such as orthopaedic surgery. Hospitals in the hardest times provided only acute care for non-covid patients and other care provided for patients with covid disease, whether on intensive care beds, on ARO beds, but also on standard beds. In view of the evolution of the situation at certain times, when maximum bed capacity in hospitals was seriously threatened, this would mean the impossibility of providing adequate health care, health ministers were forced to issue emergency measures, which consisted of a total ban on the implementation of elective healthcare, that was at the end of December 2020, or then from April 2021 there was a recommendation to reduce elective health care. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would like to point out that the hospitals responded because they knew their state of affairs, as they must respond to the situation within the region, so they approached this step sometimes before these measures were taken. After all, as always, health workers have managed to cope with the situation, and they are grateful for that. A specific example from one hospital. Hospitals with less than 500 beds had 30 covid patients hospitalized at a certain time, who required care in the intensive care unit, or in the ARO department, of which 20 were for artificial pulmonary ventilation, and 120 patients with covid disease, who required health care in a standard bed with oxygen support. Of course, someone might say that this hospital still had two thirds of its spare capacity. Yes, but not in intensive care, ARO. Standard beds were available, but despite the great commitment and desire of help from volunteers, assistance from the Army of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps was not available qualified staff since even at this time he was sick and mainly he was transferred to the so-called covid department as assistance, because for care it was necessary to have more staff than at the time of Covid's absence. But other patients are also victims of this epidemic, as there have been delays in planned health care, in many cases several times. Their quality of life has been lost and there has been an unnecessary deterioration. And it is not only a so-called state insured person, but there are also people of working age who have been or are still restricted due to their health problem, whose solution has been postponed or delayed, who are incapacity for work, who are interested in returning to work as soon as possible. At a time when health care takes a breath after the epidemic is resolved, health professionals feel debt to people and want to reduce waiting periods despite long-term vacancy in many emergency bed care providers' facilities as soon as possible. And there's going to be cuts. Paramedics will do their best, as always, to take jobs as their mission to reduce this slide, but who or how will pay for these performances? In this context it is necessary to mention one more essential and essential thing that the patient does not perceive and must not perceive, and the same must not be perceived by the health professionals who provide this care, and this is what hospital management is dealing with - for example, limits on the number of planned performances performed. For example, as regards the health insurance party and subsequently the payment for health care provided, where there is no "same performance equals the same payment', namely for the healthcare provider who provided the care. In general, the question of the concept of "individual basic rate" is certainly for a different discussion, but it was necessary to mention this because it fits into the concept and has a fundamental impact on the income of health care providers from the public health insurance system. If the amendment is adopted, funds will be reduced for healthcare providers from this system. Furthermore, what does the hospital's management have to do, and it certainly asks: did the government and the Minister of Health take into account that there has been and is likely to be a sharp increase on the cost side, prices of tens of percent, energy prices, electricity, gas, water, fuel, food? These are commodities that go to the hands of providers. As far as income is concerned, 99 per cent of the revenue from the public health insurance scheme. What can be expected, given the situation of citizens, is based on open sources, so health professionals are citizens, and it will be possible, even if no one wants it, to put pressure on them to raise salaries. The Minister has experience from the large medical facility of the University Hospital Brno - Bohunice. I respect him very much as a doctor. And all the more surprisingly, after what this hospital has been through over the past period, how difficult it was when it was in the fire, it agrees to take 14 billion crowns from the system. I have not yet heard what the Minister's plan is for the autumn month of this year, if a wave of Coronavirus should come again, which, of course, none of us wishes to see the situation that we have experienced over the past two years repeat itself. What's going to happen, what's the plan? And on the basis of all this, the system will lose funds of CZK 14 billion? I'm proud of health care, people who work in health, how they handled the situation. And now the proposed cut is supposed to affect health care and health professionals again? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u67	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next is Mr Miloslav Janulík, who I do not see being present in the hall. In that case, I will request another one entered in the debate, and this is Mrs Iveta Štefanová. And Mr. Julius Špičák will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance Insurance. In December last year, when the five-police government took office, it promised that the planned cuts would not concern citizens and will mainly be the operating costs of individual ministries. I have nothing against savings. It is commendable that the state is trying to save taxpayers' money. But it should not do so at the expense of the risk of worsening health care, to which such a rapid reduction in payments for state insurance companies to health insurance companies will lead, I fear. This is a classic example of an investigation in the wrong place. Instead of taking money away from political nonprofits or solar barons, the government has decided to endanger already enough tested health care. In its programming statement, the government promised to take steps to ensure financial security for our health care. I consider the implementation of such cuts and such investigations by reducing payments as state insured persons to be a step in the exact opposite direction. In my opinion, the arguments put forward by the government to support these cuts in the explanatory memorandum are misleading. The report states, among other things: In the context of the negotiation of the State Budget Act for 2022, the Government of the Czech Republic concluded that the current state of public finances was necessary to address the involvement of all public resources, which are currently not effectively used. This appropriation is also intended to cover balances on individual health insurance funds as at 31 December 2021. At the end of 2021, health insurance companies had total balances on all funds of approximately CZK 50 billion. However, reserves and other items which are necessary to provide insurance undertakings in the event of unforeseen circumstances that could disrupt the entire system are also included in these figures. Taking these funds from insurance companies is unreasonable and threatening the whole health care system in the Czech Republic in the future. The fact that this opinion is based on real facts also proves the position of the Czech Medical Chamber, which was also very critical to reducing payments for state insured persons and wrote to Prime Minister Fial in March a letter from which I quote: 14 billion crowns, which your government intends to save on health care this year, is just a small patch for the state budget, at the cost of a large hole in the economic balance of the public health insurance system. End of quote. [[20.50 hours]] We also discussed this topic on the subcommittee for funding health care and health insurance. Even representatives of health insurance companies look down on this proposal. From their mouths we heard their real concerns about the consequences of reducing the payment for state insured persons. Yes, they say they will be able to pay health care even after reducing this important income, but only until the end of this year, even at the cost of exhaustion of virtually all their reserves, and the next year they are able to manage only with valorization. In my opinion, automatic valorisation of the payment for state insured persons is an absolute necessity, and it should have been a long time ago. But I certainly do not understand why such a significant reduction is to prevent this. It is necessary to introduce a valuation of the payment for state insured persons, but without reducing it from the current level, and not allow the risk of exhaustion of health insurance reserves. The government is actually contradicting itself on this matter. On the one hand, she is going to cut off health care and, on the other hand, she has been approved under dramatic circumstances by the war of the House and the violation of democratic principles by the pandemic law on the pretext that she needs it for a possible fall wave of epidemics, even against the decisions of her own senators, who have also largely opposed this standard. So, on the one hand, the government is expecting an autumn wave of epidemics, and it needs restrictions on freedom, citizens' rights and constitutional principles by approving the pandemic law, and on the other hand, it is preparing large-scale cuts in the health sector that will weaken the system and limit our ability to face the crisis situations that we have experienced in the past. And that is in a situation where our health care will face another enormous pressure when several hundred thousand refugees are coming into the country. In a situation where there are just hundreds of thousands of new state insured persons, to whom the state guarantees in addition to support and free health insurance, the government is cutting off health insurance. It doesn't just make sense, but it's a gamble with the stability of our health insurance. It is in these cases that insurance companies have created reserves that the current government wants to incomprehensiblely shorten. The exhaustion of the public health insurance system, which could be due to these cuts, would soon turn against the current government. Relying in today's situation on the fact that the situation will develop more positively than last year on the income side from economically active insurance payers, when income will be higher in terms of inflation, as the government believes in the explanatory memorandum, is very naive. The economic reasons put forward by the government for the deduction of the contribution to state policy holders are therefore secondary in the face of the current situation and the government should have its decision to reduce the contribution to state policy holders in the light of today's events to reconsider, withdraw the amendment in this version and introduce its automatic valuation instead of reducing payments for state policy holders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u69	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll read an apology. From the meeting meeting on 4. 5. from 20.40, today, Mr Roman Bělor apologizes for working reasons. Next is Mr Julius Špičák, who I do not see here. In that case, we'll move on. The next enrollment is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please, madam, you have the floor. And I will ask you, fellow Members, to return to the O.R. to keep the noise down, so that it is well understood what the honourable Member is saying. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government present, this government is engulfing us with responsibilities and flooding us with eloquent phrases about this - Mr President, I apologize...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u71	I understand you very well. Colleagues and colleagues, if you have a need to discuss something, go to the foyer, let it be well understood what the Member says. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u72	So I'll start from the beginning. This government is engulfing itself with responsibility and flooding us with eloquent phrases about how it wants to protect future generations from debt. It is in the health sector that it is clear how hypocritical it is. It is quite obvious that it is just cheap and for the future a very expensive pose for effect. I'm not just saying this because it's expected of me as an opposition MP. I say this with all seriousness because I feel obliged to warn the public about this danger. To warn that future generations would not be burdened with enormous costs and would not have to bear unnecessary sacrifices. I don't have to be an expert in health care to know that prevention is much cheaper than treatment for consequences. The Fialův government now wants to save on people's health. This year alone, it will be about CZK 20 billion, which is announced as savings. These costs will then be paid in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u73	I'll ask you, colleagues, especially in the right side of the hall, especially in the right side of the hall, to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u74	Thank you. For those who are only interested in the figures on the budget's spending side, I say that this will be in the form of the cost of treating diseases that could be avoided for much less money today. For those of us who care about people's lives, I add that it is mostly for those who are more seriously ill or die prematurely. The lives and serious health problems of these people will go to the hands of the government of Petr Fiala and his coalition partners. I know it sounds pathetic, but it's true. The fact that this government is squeezing people financially is unforgivable. We will also pay these costs in the future in the form of social benefits, aids, lower revenue for the budget and so on. But we can cynically say that if it's not about life, it's not about anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u75	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm actually asking you to keep your voice down. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to name it, which I don't want to. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u76	One would expect more empathy from the government, but unfortunately not from the current one, and I feel that not even from my colleagues on the right. Speaking of health care, we should be aware that life is at stake. We're talking about 20 billion crowns, which will only be lost to health care this year. This will prove to be worse prevention, which has already been neglected with regard to covid. Less people will have access to innovative treatments that are more effective and more expensive. It will not be more effective, but also more expensive medicines. All diseases will be treated with the so-called Paralen for savings, so that the crown will not be spent in vain. And it's even saved twice. First on the treatment itself and in the following years then on pensions And that's very, very sad. Lack of money will lead to restrictions on health care. After all, because of the low salaries, the staff will leave as well. If we could brag about something that many countries envied us, it seems that this government will stomp it into the ground. If money is missing from the state, the government logically starts to justify that people just have to start paying extra. In that morning, they will not be able to afford high-quality seniors and even people with low incomes, typically young families with children. You might think I'm painting on the wall of the apocalypse. But it's not exactly true. Health is really a very sensitive thing, and people feel very strongly about it. Let us remember what, for example, the subject of medical fees has done. People rightly appreciate their health, and if anyone threatens the availability of medical care, then they threaten the most important thing we have. European culture is based on the fact that it appreciates every single life, because it is connected with individual fate and the person from our European perspective is not just a number in statistics. For the government of Petr Fiala and for the Minister of Válek, the perspective of human destinies is characteristic. I feel, and I guess I'm not alone, that we're just numbers in the statistics for them. This was seen in the approach to the covide, when they said it would actually turn out somehow. And I think people have died for nothing. The cures and vaccines for tens of millions of crowns went up the stairs. Most importantly, the government has pleased its constituents with the almost immediate release of all preventive hygiene principles. They look like covid doesn't exist, yet even under the reigns of Petr Fiala, thousands of people continue to die from it. But they're just numbers for five-calices, not human beings. [[21.00 hours]] The question remains whether massive cuts in the income of health insurance companies are aimed at privatisation or the targeted problems of some health insurance companies. According to experts, there are at least three health insurance companies at risk that may not survive. Moreover, these cuts come at a time when costs rise to almost everything. It does not include an increase in energy or double-digit inflation. Today, the first hospitals are in trouble because their energy costs are increasing radically. It's expensive food for patients, expensive medicines, services like laundry rooms and the like. From the moment these hospitals get to the edge of existential problems, it is just another step towards saying that hospitals need to be privatized. The sale of medical facilities, especially those of the backbones, is the way to hell. Look how the medical facility that got into private hands ended up. Of course not all of them. But most of them were a disaster in terms of the availability of medical care. I can't shake the impression, and I hope it's wrong, but I have a feeling that Petr Fiala's government wants to return our health care decades ago. At a time when he's starting to dig himself out of covid's problems, he's gonna put another financial blow on him to wipe out the functioning system. I don't want to anticipate the motivation. But it is irresponsible behavior, and it is certainly not in the interests of people who prepaid honest care so that they can draw it when they need it. It's a gamble with people's lives that the government is sacrificing on the altar of populist phrases. I appeal to the government to reconsider these actions today. They may lose political points today, but they will save health and human lives in the future. And that should be much more valuable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u77	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr. Jiří Navrátil and Mr. Roman Bělor cancels their apology. And next up, Mr Milan Brázdil, Mr. Milan Brázdil, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u78	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I think I could do it in a real way, but after all. As a member of the board of directors at the last meeting, when we were supposed to get information about production data, about rescue services, there was the most spoken in the spirit that the number of trips, the number of kilometers, everything was growing. Some of the industries went down there, this went up. And these 14 billion, let me just think about this, 14 billion that would go into public health insurance could in the future, and you'll be sure to tell me that you know that a person's life is -- in 4 to 6 minutes, the brain ends, and we don't continue in this world if we stop having a heart attack. And yet we have a medical emergency service located in this republic for 20 minutes. Probably because we can't have a denser net. If they were able to keep this money in insurance companies, and of course there would be some kind of change in the law, we would actually help everyone in this republic to make sure that their chances of survival in case of cardiac or other vital signs could increase. I know, somebody says, I don't care now. But we're all gonna be ex-boyfriends one day. I wanted to say, even considering my profession, that this is something that would move this state of ours and the care in the pre-hospital emergency care a little further. I hope I didn't keep you too long. I just wanted to say that the money should go to the health service and there will never be enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u79	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. With a point of fact, Minister Válek is registered and then President Okamura with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u80	Thank you, Mr President. So, of course, I have to respond to the sensible proposals that are falling here, which would be a bad Minister of Health if I didn't respond. Thus, through Mr President, the Member knows that health services and ambulances are financed from the regions, that it is unfortunately not financed, but if it is to be seen as a proposal from an opposition Member that ambulances from the regions would be transferred to the Ministry of Health, it is something that can certainly be discussed, if the opposition prepares this proposal, I will certainly be happy to look at it. If - After all, we have here, through your, Mr President, Mr Vondrák, who is the governor, so he could certainly raise this issue at the Generals' Association, and it would be interesting that ambulances would not belong below the county, but belong directly below the state. [[regions]] He'd finance them, then. And then the solution that you are proposing, through Mr President, Mr Member, is certainly a good one, so I take it as a raised glove. If Mr. Governor Vondrák comes up with this at the next Regional Association, I'm sure I won't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u81	Thank you. And now, with priority rights, President Okamura is signed in. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, before you start talking - I'm going to ask you repeatedly for peace, colleagues and colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, so we've spent two days here, one night, and the outcome of this debate is exactly what we said in the SPD. The government is taking CZK 14 billion to health insurance companies, making the government worse access to health care for our citizens. We have done everything possible here to defend citizens of the Czech Republic, because we are opposed to making access to healthcare worse. The government by taking CZK 14 billion to health insurance companies, that is, they are public health insurance payments for so-called state insured people, that is, Czech children, students, seniors, disability, from 1 July this year. We just don't agree with that. And the government takes this, despite the fact that the number of these state insured persons is currently increased by hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ukraine, whose health care is also financed from this public insurance, i.e. from Czech taxpayers' money. This government of Petr Fiala and the coalition government of ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates will, of course, cause a serious decline in the income of health insurance companies in a relatively short period of time. There's also high inflation, everyone knows that. As a result, the availability of health care will be impaired, the availability and quality will also be impaired, the availability of long-term delayed health performances. It's written by a number of citizens. Even now, only during that one day, that the performance is delayed for various reasons. So this is simply unacceptable to the SPD movement. That's why we put in a motion to dismiss. Karla Maříková, SPD MP, gave it for us. This will be voted on here in order to make it clear when voting on who is in favour of this matter. And it must be said that any problems of Czech citizens with regard to health care, deterioration of availability, availability, quality of health care, fall entirely on the shirt, or fall entirely under the full responsibility of the coalition government of Petr Fiala and Prime Minister Petr Fiala. That's all on my side. I think I've summed it up quite clearly here and it's completely, I think, obvious.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u83	Thank you. Now with priority rights Mr. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u84	I have two proposals for a vote. First, to reduce the deadline for negotiations between first and second reading by 45 days to 15 days. If it didn't pass, it'd be 30 days for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u85	Thank you, and for the record, first you want to shorten to 45 days, by 45 days, and then to 30. Thank you. Now with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We sat here for two days, one night, debating, all the arguments we wanted to say, we said. Consciousness of political reality, no doubt the amendment will go through the first reading today. I want to remind you, and I will not repeat all that I have said here again, I want to say that I accept the Minister of Finance's offer to gather together and work together on a valuation scheme that would ensure a regular gradual valuation of the payment for state insured persons in the following years. I also accept the offer so that we can look for a consensus as far as possible and therefore try to be co-chairors of the amendment. And I trust the Minister that in the budget strategy for the years 2023 to 2025, which he withdrew, as he said, it is a mistake that between 23, 24 and 25 there should be a payment of CZK 1,567, which would still be CZK 200 less than it will be now. So I take his word, I'm going to follow it, and I believe that this is indeed a mistake that will be in the material that will be submitted to the government, approved and sent to the European Commission next week, thank you, it must be fixed by the end of May - that the amount will simply be corrected. So I'll take that as a commitment at this point. This means that the press will pass through to the second reading, which, of course, does not mean that his journey is completely final. All of this, I believe, will be fulfilled, and we will do everything we can to support the payment of the state insurance policy and its valorisation to the maximum, and find a match to be here, to make sure that the valorization scheme is here, regardless of who's in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u87	Thank you, too. I'm still registering a priority right, President Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, government, colleagues, I feel obliged to live up to the political agreement that we have made today with President Schillerová, and I can and must confirm her words here, which means I welcome the agreement on the need for this valorisation mechanism for the payment of state insured persons for the years 2023 and following. And I can say publicly here that this amendment is actually prepared, it is under way, let's say, the last alienation at the level of the government coalition, and the moment this agreement is here, the proposal will be consulted with the presidents of both the two opposition clubs, both with President Fiala and President Schillerová. That was the agreement, and it will also be respected for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Schillerová, too. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry, I forgot. On behalf of two ANO and SPD clubs, I give the veto to shorten the deadline as presented by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u91	Okay. In that case, shortening to 15 days is unvoting. I made a note of it. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? I see no application, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask the appellant or rapporteur for the final word. Do you want to take the final word? Please, Minister. Before you speak, allow me to announce that, for the remainder of the meeting, Mrs Monika Oborná will vote with replacement card number 30, and please, Minister, you can speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u92	I heard the deal was we're gonna act by 11:00. So I've got something to do with the final word. Allow me a few words that I would like to respond to the whole debate. Time will judge us. I think there's too many sharp words in here, but okay. There's been some concern, I understand. And there were many catastrophic scenarios. So let's go back to that on January 10, next year, or when the first meeting starts, or on January 20, we don't have a timetable yet, and I would like us to confront these strong words from the opposition with reality. I very much hope that this will turn out in favour of the arguments put forward by the government here. On the one hand, I would like to thank the Minister of Health, who is partly indisposed, today, and I think we have clearly proved that the government is a team, and not as ministerial ministers or nominees of individual political parties of the government coalition. Of course, we will keep those promises. The material asked by Mrs Schillerová will go to the government next week on Wednesday. I think there's a chance that some of those who made that mistake are probably going to be about the negotiation, the valorization, so we can eventually go back to where it came from. It's a shame you guys brought this up, because then I had the idea that we'd do this meeting on Tuesday, and if we made a deal on Tuesday, then we'd wait 24 days and be threatened by deadline 1. 7. And if we don't make it, the Senate will have to recount it, so that it goes mathematically to CZK 1,767, and we'll do it one more time. It seems almost pointless to me if we have expressed our will to try to agree on a key amendment, and I think we can come to an agreement. That it's not such a controversial subject. But I'll take that under advisement. The SPD that wants to tear it down convinced the YES movement, so let's face it. However, in conclusion, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, to reject this bill, to release it for second reading. The law is rather short. I didn't count the words, now I'm sorry because they're three brief documents. We also attended a world lecture and similar excesses in the debate, but I believe we can do it together and that we will make the bill by 1. 7. Although for these time reasons, we will need extraordinary access to the upper chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u93	Thank you, too. I ask the rapporteur if he wants the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposals, as has been said. zagongovat, I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. I'm registering your application for check-out. I checked you out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. First of all, we will vote on Mr Kasal's proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 13; 169 Members and Members have signed up, in favour of proposal 75, against 93, this proposal has been rejected. We will now vote on Mrs Maříková's proposal to reject the proposal. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of rejecting this motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 14, which is registered with 169 Members, for proposal 72, against 95, and this proposal has also been rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? None. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u94	Thank you. I just think that, given that the co-chairmen are the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health, so I understood the words of the Minister of Finance, so I would order it to the Committee on Budgets. This has much to do with the budget. It's part of the budget strategy. I propose ordering the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u95	Like a guarantee? Okay, I've noticed your proposal. There was no other suggestion, I don't see it. In that case, I shall vote first on the counterproposal. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal being directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 15, 169 Members and Members signed, for proposal 76, against 6, this proposal was rejected. So we will now continue with the original proposal that I will put to the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the guarantee committee being the Health Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 16, 169 Members and Members signed up for proposal 169, and I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Are you reporting with priority rights? Please, you have the floor. I assume you want to propose another committee, Madam President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u96	Yes, that's right, Mr Vice-President, you just see me in the head, which scares me. [[Laughter.]] I respect that the guarantee committee will be a health committee, but I suggest you give it to the budget committee. I really care. I'm a member of the Budget Committee. Minister Stanjura has been defending this place all along. Give this to the Budget Committee, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-04-ps2021-020-02-001-002.u97	I'm sure you will, Chairman YES. Any other proposals for discussion in other committees? I can't see. I will not comment on this any more, colleagues, I will put it to a vote. I will now put to the vote - who is in favour of this bill being ordered to discuss the budgetary committee? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 17, registered 169 Members and Members, for proposal 77, against 14, this proposal has not been adopted. A proposal to shorten the deadline was made in the debate. I shall vote that this law be reduced by 30 days, i.e. to 30 days. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 18, 169 Members and Members signed in, for proposal 95, against 24, the proposal was accepted and the deadline was reduced to 30 days. This has dealt with all the proposals made in the debate. I'm still looking to see if there's an objection. Since we've dealt with all the proposals, I'm done discussing this point. On the basis of the agreement of Members' Club Chairs, I am interrupting this meeting and I am announcing that we will meet tomorrow at 8 a.m. and we will start discussing another extraordinary, 21st, meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. At 8:00 p.m., that was the agreement at the level of club presidents. Thank you and have a nice rest tonight.
