ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u1	2. Proposal for the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territories of the Member States of the European Union, Iraq, Kuwait and Kosovo by 2024 with a view to 2025 and the residence of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and of the Member States of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic until 2023 /German press 339/ The submitted proposal will be introduced gradually by Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský. I see only the Secretary of Defense so far, so I ask her to take the floor. And otherwise, I'm going to ask that we quiet down in the hall, or transfer the discussions to the lobby, and we could launch this certainly important point. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u2	Mr Vice-President, I present to you, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for discussion and approval, the Proposal for the application of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territories of the Member States of the European Union, Iraq, Kuwait and Kosovo by 2024 with a view to 2025 and to the residence of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and the Member States of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic until 2023, which was approved by the Government on 16 November 2022 by Resolution 946. The draft mandate is based on foreign policy and security priorities of the Czech Republic, which are significantly influenced by Russian aggression against Ukraine. For this reason, too, the priority of the proposed aid proposal is to train Ukrainian soldiers in order to successfully combat the Russian aggressor. After all, our government has been repeatedly called upon to extend this aid not only to the assistance of military, humanitarian, but also to other types of assistance, so we are fulfilling what we have been called upon to do. On 17 October, the European Union approved an assistance mission for Ukraine aimed at training Ukrainian soldiers in the territory of the Member States of the European Union. More than half of the Member States of the European Union have already expressed interest in participating in the mission, including Spain, France, Portugal, the Netherlands, Ireland, Italy and Luxembourg. Our contribution to Ukraine in the preparation of soldiers is proposed in two parts. In the first part, we propose to allocate 55 people to work in the assistance mission for Ukraine in the territory of other Member States of the European Union until 2024. These are soldiers who would be sent to the command structures of this mission, possibly instructors and small training teams that would operate in the territory of the European Union. The second part should relate to the training of Ukrainian soldiers in our territory, which is related to the proposal for the approval of a stay of up to 800 persons in the Czech Republic. The current agreement with the Ukrainian side is that it would be the range of five four-week training cycles carried out in the Czech Republic by the end of 2023. Training of members of the armed forces of Ukraine in the Czech Republic is organised on the basis of bilateral negotiations with Ukraine. We expect a subsequent transfer to the European Union's assistance mission, even then training will continue in the Czech Republic. Despite these priorities in the form of helping Ukraine, it is, of course, impossible to ignore the share of international organisations in stabilising the security situation in other crisis regions. I am specifically referring to the Middle East region or some Western Balkan countries. In the summer, the government and the two chambers approved Parliament's mandate to operate in foreign operations until 2024. During the submission of a proposal to the Government, and also to my colleagues on the committee, I stressed that I would perhaps submit a proposal for the involvement of our soldiers in EUTM in Mali and Iraq separately in the autumn months. Unfortunately, the situation in Mali is even more complex than it was in the summer, and there is currently no prospect of a significant improvement. Therefore, our work in the European Union's Mali training mission will be completed at the end of this year. [[17,00 hours]] While the internal political situation in Iraq remains difficult, there has been some progress, and the Iraqi President has finally been elected in mid-October, and the Iraqi Parliament has approved the emergence of a new government. Iraq's leaders no longer insist on ending the country's allied presence, and many of them, on the contrary, appreciate this assistance and support it, and all of our major Alliance allies have confirmed that they will continue in Iraq. For this reason, I propose continuing our military presence in Iraq in order to provide advice and training to local forces also in the years 2023 and 2024, in numbers up to 20 persons. Kuwait also covers the mandate because there are elements of the command structure of the coalition operation. As far as the Western Balkans are concerned, the Czech Republic has received an offer to participate temporarily in the Italian carabinieri unit within KFOR in Kosovo. We have accepted the offer and we propose to deploy a unit of up to 40 people in Kosovo between 1 July 2023 and 31 December 2024. Our military officers will mainly advise Kosovo's police forces. The deployment of military police officers in the KFOR mission will have a number of benefits for the Czech Republic. Firstly, it will be a greater contribution of the Czech Republic to maintaining the stability of Kosovo. Secondly, our military police will gain access to information, which the Czech Republic will also be able to use for its internal security due to organised crime, migration. The Western Balkan migration route passes through Kosovo and the presence of our military police in the country will thus increase the overview of migration flows in this area, which we will all agree is definitely desirable for the Czech Republic. The financial costs of all these missions will be covered from the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, but the costs of training modules transferred under the Union training mission, training of Ukrajinec in fact, will be refunded to some extent to the Czech Republic through the financial instruments of the European Union and the amount will be in hundreds of millions of crowns. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed activities of the Czech Republic contribute to the stabilisation of the security situation in crisis regions. Everyone will be attacked on this occasion by the fact that our army will also gain experience in training Ukrainian soldiers. Experience not only will they train someone, but especially experience from those Ukrajinec, because what soldiers and volunteers in Ukraine are going through is something that brings experience to every army in the world, which is highly valued not only in terms of intelligence. And, of course, we will be getting this information directly from Ukrainian representatives, and that is information concerning the various operational and tactical procedures of both warring parties, so we will better know how the Rus are fighting and what their weaknesses and strengths are, which I think most of us will appreciate in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will not speak because he is excused. However, this House Press discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution was delivered as the House Press 339/1. And I will ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Josef Flek, take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u4	Hello, thank you. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would very quickly sum up what has been said here. Madam Secretary took it in detail. We voted unanimously on the Defence Committee. I will read the resolution later. But about the information. I have the honor of being the rapporteur for the major press today. We are discussing the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territory of EU Member States, also in Iraq, Kuwait and Kosovo. As second but not secondary, today the topic of this House press - the stay of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and EU Member States in the territory of the Czech Republic. Now that we're discussing this, we're sending 55 people for the EU's assistance mission in Ukraine for a period of up to 31. 12. 2024. For the operation of the Global Coalition to fight Daeš, the Islamic State in Iraq and Kuwait, and for the NATO training mission in Iraq, we separate twenty people by 31. 12. 2024. For the operation under KFOR Kosovo we send 40 people to 1. 7. 2023 to 31. 12. 2024. If we look into this in more detail: Ukraine - as a help in training Ukrainian soldiers, we have approved on the committee a mandate for a maximum of 800 people who will be trained here so that they can continue bravely defend themselves against the Russian aggressor. Specifically, it will be the training of mechanized units, fighting and general support units and the preparation of commanders and crews to be carried out in several weeks' cycles on Libová. Approximately 20 countries of the European Union would be interested in involvement. The costs will be partly compensated as this is a patronage of the European Union's assistance missions. Iraq - although we once assured ourselves that the Islamic State had ended, it is not true, it still exists. Even if you cut off the head of such an organization, it will grow new and continue to be violent. We need to be vigilant and solve problems where they arise so that they don't come to us. As far as Kosovo is concerned, this is a security situation in Kosovo and there is also a war on Ukraine. The country expresses relatively strong support for Ukraine due to its size. At the same time, however, because of the war, he feels increased concern about anti-Russian behaviour (?) Serbia. In Kosovo, we are mainly concerned with strengthening security stability, where there is tension between Serbia and which is supported by the Putin regime. By its resolution of 16 November 2022, the Government discussed and approved a proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territories of the Member States of the European Union, Iraq, Kuwait and Kosovo by 2024 with a view to 2025 and the residence of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and of the Member States of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic until 2023. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I am initiating a general debate, in which Vice-President Olga Richterová has signed up with priority law, and I will ask her to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u6	Thank you very much for the floor. I stand here with the opinion of both the Pirates Club and our Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský, who is currently at the NATO Ministry of Bucharest. Why do I say that? We can imagine that in the situation of the war, Putinův's war in Ukraine, the importance of such an action is simply great. In this context, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for her cooperation, because the proposal was prepared in cooperation between defence and abroad. We clearly support the adoption of this proposal. Why is that? Because this draft mandate is crucial in terms of fulfilling our alliance and EU commitments. This material is a basis that will enable the training of members of the armed forces of Ukraine, and our assistance in this regard will also be swift and effective. As far as increasing our presence in Kosovo is concerned, we are demonstrating our commitment to the stability of the Western Balkans region. This is one of the priorities of Czech foreign policy. Again, the importance of ensuring security in this region is increasing in the context of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. [[17.10 hours]] One more comment. I also welcome the inclusion of the mandate for the training mission in Iraq, which is once again important in terms of our alliance commitments. And I want to stress that. The material is simply completely in line with the foreign political interests of the Czech Republic, the European Union and NATO. And that's what I want to highlight. The defence of our country is based not only on our Czech army, our defence, but also on our membership of the European Union and NATO. And since we are promoting a responsible approach to defence and our allies, we are clearly in favour of this intention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u7	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I now see Mr Staněk's point of fact, but I do not see him in the hall. I will add three more apologies before we go back to the general debate. Mr Havel Matěj Ondřej apologizes for working reasons from 17:00. Mr Hrnčíř apologizes from 17 o'clock for health reasons. And Mr. Ondřej Kolář apologizes for business reasons from 18:00. We will continue with the general debate. This is Mr Radovan Vích. Ambassador Foldyna is...? You have two minutes to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u8	Thanks, I'm good with the two minutes. I listened carefully to the Minister. Those words were weird, like I've ever heard them before, like they've been here before, like the stays of those troops and so on. Only the persons and casts were different. Well, maybe those soldiers, like what they're gonna be doing here on the Kitty, they're gonna be dusting those shelters that their grandfathers and fathers dug up in the past, so it's good they're gonna be there fast. A note to the rapporteur. You know, you're taking Serbia into your mouth. Serbia has been stolen by the public... foreign policy of the states of the European Union and the United States has stolen Serbia's territory. At first there was a so-called operation called the Merciful Angel, I think. Jamie Shea, NATO spokesperson, always said it was an operation. It wasn't a declaration of war. That's very similar to what's happening in Ukraine today. So NATO didn't declare war on Yugoslavia, but it bombed it, destroyed its energy infrastructure with graphite bombs, threw cluster bombs at people, shot missiles with depleted uranium, and no one has ever condemned you as a war crime. And I would condemn it, just as war crimes are happening in Ukraine today, so I would condemn this war crime. You didn't think of that. Then a decision was made by some kind of Kosovo state, as if we northern Bohemia had returned to the Němec and said that the Sudety would be there again. You guys are terrible hypocrites. I'm sorry to be so honest, but I just can't do it. I want to tell you that you are terrible hypocrites. And it'll come back to you someday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u9	In general, another point of fact, Mr Flek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u10	Thank you. I'd just like to react briefly. In fact, listening to it that way, Russia is actually taking back its territory that used to belong to it. Or at least that's what he says, hiding behind it. So, actually, anyone who's gonna take back their territory now, that's okay. And Serbia can fight Kosovo because they want to take over their territory. It seems a little bit - well, you say hypocritical, it seems to me from your side to your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u11	So, with a factual remark, Mr Foldyna is once again reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u12	Thank you. So fallen on the head - fallen on the head maybe it is. International law has ceased to exist. NATO violated it in 1999 by bombing a foreign state. A foreign state without declaring war. And they called it surgery. I think they even called it the milosrdný anděl for a while. They were completely screwed up and bombed people. They were throwing graphite bombs to short-circuit the power plants, people on the surgical desks, but you didn't care at the time. It's just this is crazy. On this basis, the situation arose that Serbia had been robbed of territory contrary to international law, and a kind of state arose in 2008, a quasi-state Kosovo, which is still not accepted into the UN. And many countries in the world don't recognize it. And you're just saying it's crazy. You just violated international law, and now we're witnessing another violation of international law. Of course it's a violation of international law. But we need to stand up to this straight and condemn what is to be condemned and simply proceed in harmony with how we were used to it; that there will be some courts that will deal with these things, and not that we will be making one-sided political decrees here, just as the Bolsheviks have done in the past!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u13	Your speech raised a factual remark from Mr Žáček. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u14	Thanks for the word. I don't want to compare different historical events in detail, that's always tricky. I would just like to remind you that this was in 1999, when there was a government of social democracy, whose colleague, my previous speaker, was a member who at that time joined NATO and decided and supported the attack that was being waged on Serbia. And now I say it without any emotion, without any connotations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u15	Yes, thank you. Mr Foldyna will respond to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, I was expecting this remark, and it's very good. My colleague Žáček is right, and it really matches what he said. Yes, there was a social democracy and she agreed. And it was the government of Miloš Zeman. The Miloš Zeman, who now sits in the castle and apologizes for those things. He said he was wrong, he was wrong. It's human to be wrong. I was not lazy then, I was a member of social democracy and I took x Members and senators and went to Belgrade to express solidarity, and that not all of us are looking at this thing the way we are looking at it. Of the 600 convention participants, 360 signed a letter to the Yugoslav Ambassador Djoko Stojičič, who disagreed with what the government had decided. So Miloš Zeman's government decided and Miloš Zeman apologized for it. I accept your point, and it was very correct. To this day, I'm sorry. I tried to do what I could against it, just like I did now. I just want to go back to the table so that international law can apply. Let them apply to the Američan, to the Rus, to the Ukrajinec, to the Aboridžinec, to everyone. But here's the hypocrisy, here's the declaration made, like when Milada Horáková hanged herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u17	That's the end of factual remarks. We are going back to the general debate. It has been signed up by Mr Radovan Vích.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u18	Mr President, colleagues, Madam Secretary, everything relevant here has been said in this proposal for the force and resources of the Ministry of Defence for the following years. I just want to highlight some things, some aspects. The draft government, which is not divided into foreign operations and the training of the Ukrainian army in the territory of the Member States of the European Union, is simply being discussed as a whole, which, from my point of view, is problematic. Among other things, this proposal plans to train up to 4,000 Ukrainian soldiers in our territory at five-month intervals, which should cost the Czech state budget this year and next year together almost one billion crowns. It is a so-called European Union assistance mission with a later partial refund. But this is at a time when the debt of the state and Czech citizens and companies affected by the astronomical rise in energy prices and all other necessary costs are not receiving any assistance. But the priority of the current government is to support Ukraine and Ukrajinec in the continuation of the war conflict. Moreover, this is unacceptable at a time when we are currently lacking, only as much as I have from public sources, 3.5 thousand soldiers only for the ground forces to supplement the tables, but it is also a question of the security of our citizens. We have soldiers in the Baltics, we have soldiers in Slovakia plus we have strengthening the Police of the Czech Republic at the Czech-Slovak border and it is not in our interest to engage in the conflict between Ukraine and Russia and we also do not want soldiers and troops from Ukraine to be trained on our territory. In the Czech Republic, our soldiers are to be prepared to defend the territory of our state. And that is why I will not support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u19	Mr Kobza is next in line for the general debate. Before he comes to the speaker's desk, I'll read one apology. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová has been apologizing since 17 o'clock for health reasons. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, good evening, early evening. Let me also briefly comment on the motion for a resolution on the operation of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territories of the Member States of the European Union, Iraq, Kuwait and Serbia until 2024 and with a view to 2025 as well as on the residence of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and the Member States of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic until 2023. The position of the SPD on both the substantive and content parts of the motion for this resolution, as my previous speaker, Mr Vích, has already indicated, is negative, negative. We generally consider the training of our soldiers in the form of participation in missions important, but should not be dominant in the activities of our army, at the expense of ensuring its basic task, which is the defence of the territory and inhabitants of the Czech Republic. The participation of members of our army and foreign armed forces in some states and regions is also problematic. For example, a classic example was Afghanistan, where the many years of foreign troops, including ours, ended in a complete fiasco, and something similar applies to Iraq, where our army wants to send troops again, and where the situation leads nowhere. I know the region. I know what I'm talking about. The entire Iraq operation conducted by the United States in Iraq ended again infamously by tens of thousands of dead civilians, by de facto dividing the country into ethnic or religious enclaves, and mainly by the emergence of the so-called Islamic State with all its horrible deadly activities in the territory of the Middle East, far from Iraq. You know well that the enclave Idlíb according to the information I have so far hides about 100,000 members of Daeš. And their situation is quite interesting, and the position of the powers here on the one that basically protects them from being destroyed by the Syrian army. The result of Iraq's operation is a long-standing mass illegal migration to Europe. At present, there is a hyperactive Turkey in Iraq, which is operating militarily here, bombing its territory, and President Erdogan has quite really threatened ground operations, by invading this country without calling it the so-called democratic West. So we do not consider this development to be a worthy role of the Czech army, on the contrary, we need soldiers who have gained experience in foreign missions here, because we need border surveillance in connection with illegal migration, and that is where the experience of our soldiers from these missions can be very, very useful. On the Czech-Slovak border, where thousands of illegal migrants have flowed since spring, most Syřan from Turkey, which must be permanently guarded, including the green border, there really is a need and should be strengthened. The capacities of our police are far from enough, even if they are strengthened by the very professional soldiers and active backups have been called in to help there. So we consider the participation of our soldiers on a mission in Kosovo, that is, in Serbia, as has been said here, to be inappropriate also for general political reasons, because all the events surrounding Kosovo's creation have been a violation of international law, namely UNSCR 1244. And if we insist on the territorial integrity of sovereign states in the case of Ukraine, we must also do so here and measure by one meter. We at the SPD are still trying, and we're consistent. We simply want war crimes to be punished regardless of who committed them. We are also opposed to the training of members of the armed forces of Ukraine or of any other states in our territory and with the money of Czech taxpayers. In fact, I don't personally understand if we want to train the Ukrainian army, why we can't train them in Halic or on some other military space in Ukraine for their money. So it's not our army's priority to train foreign armies here on our territory. Not at a time when state debt is rising astronomically and public spending needs to be directed towards helping our extremely vulnerable families and businesses. Moreover, with the presence of foreign armies on our territory, we have quite poor experience and I assume that this will be a politically very sensitive matter, which can have its impact on the further development of society. So let me repeat that we now need Czech soldiers primarily to defend our territory precisely because of the illegal migration and the security of our borders, where it has achieved effective seizures of illegal migrants, which, by the way, are multiplied by more than during the migration crisis in 2015, but also to capture their smugglers. And paradoxically, according to official information from last week, most of these smugglers are Ukrajinec. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we are not really going to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u21	Your speech raised three factual points, in the following order: Mr Zuna will be the first to speak, Mr Bureš will be prepared. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. honourable Members, I want to respond to the outcome of Mr Vích, who mentioned that it is not in our interest, in the interests of the Czech Republic, to support Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens, for example through the support of this which is related to this press. And even here it was said that we were supporting the war itself. I would like to recall Russia's very aggressive foreign policy, whether it be 1992 and Moldova, 2008 and Georgia, 2014 and 2022 in connection with Ukraine. At a time when the barbaric, aggressive and picky war in Ukraine has been going on for 280 days now, through the Russian Federation, which aims to lose Ukraine's sovereignty as such, and when the critical infrastructure of Ukraine, including civilian targets, has been being snipped for several weeks, when rockets are falling on schools, kindergartens, squares and other civilian targets as housing houses, it is in our interest and in the interests of the Czech Republic to help the affected country, so that the Czech Republic does not add to the list of those countries that I mentioned here, for example in 2032.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Mr Bureš, and Mr Žáček will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u24	Thank you. I don't think I can use it, Mr Vice-President. Mr Kobza mentioned here that we have unfortunate experience in the stay of foreign soldiers and perhaps their training, but I would like to remind you of one stage that maybe all of us in this Chamber of Deputies and perhaps most of the people are proud of, and that was 1948, when we were trained by Israeli soldiers. Today, the Czechoslovak Republic and the Czech Republic have a great sound in Israel, and it is precisely because we have made it possible for soldiers of the future State of Israel to exercise on our territory, which was subsequently attacked by their Arab colleagues. And to this day, the Czech public's support for this very state is huge. We should be proud of this, and we should remind ourselves of this stage, just as we should allow training for the soldiers of Ukraine who are being attacked. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk already said that war is evil, great evil, but life is dishonest is worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u25	Another comment will be made by Mr Žáček, Mrs Válková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u26	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I will not take the right of the SPD to express my anti-Ukrainian opinion and pro-Kremelian opinion, but what I must fundamentally reject as an ahistorical, apolitical, amoral thing is the comparison of more than 20 years-long occupation of the Warsaw Pact Army, or the Soviet Union, the predecessor of the Russian Federation Army, Czechoslovakia, with which we have a complete experience. [[17.30 hours]] I think it's also disrespect for the dead who died as a result of this occupation in our territory. And that we're helping and we're helping, and it's approved by the procedure that's constitutional with us, which I think... In order to "exercise" in our polygons, in our training spaces, they had to invite a half-million-dollar army here on August 21st. This must simply be rejected, and this is absolutely unacceptable, and let us please beg that this is downgraded here and put into context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u27	Thank you. The next, with a factual point, will be made by Mrs Válková, and then the President of the Fiala is attached to the factual point. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, she, rather than comment, will be a question to the Secretary of Defense, through you, Mr Vice-President. I followed the course of the debate, and I wanted to ask, first of all, whether it would be better, because from a material point of view, and even though I am watching the emotions that are unfortunately escalating here, to divide actually - the acting Mr Vích spoke about it - the resolution in two parts, because, in my view, the two parts are not very connected. The only thing that connects them is helping Ukraine, that's for sure. But other than that, I think it's a little different to talk about how our forces operate abroad, something else is about placing foreign troops, even in the form of the 800, which we will practice in our territory in the Czech Republic. Of course, the fifteen-, sixteen-, 17-year-olds who have experienced it, among them I count myself thanks to my matrimony year, so they remember, and I would just like to say to Mr Žáček, by your means, that we, as soon as we hear about the placement of foreign troops in our territory, have a slightly different problem than the younger ones. So perhaps it would be good to focus on this here and consider whether the resolution should be divided. And then I have a very specific question. There has been talk of international commitments here, and it is not clear to me if, because the Minister here has spoken, that this is based on a bilateral agreement between the Czech and Ukrainian governments, whether this is linked to the assistance mission that was approved by the European Union in October of this year, and if, therefore, the Czech Republic, as regards the location of the Ukrainian soldiers until they are trained... [[President: Time, Madame.]] Yes. Before they train in our country, whether it comes from that bilateral agreement or from international commitments at European Union level. [[Time, thank you.]] If not, then when will it be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u29	If so, please sign up for another factual remark. Otherwise, I'll ask that we keep our time. The President of the Fiala is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u30	So I was provoked by Mr. Chairman Žáček by the SPD defending some of the KremeI views here. I understand you have to say that. I think someone told you. But we, Mr Žáček, through the President, defend the Czech views. Czech national interests. Because we all know that war, not only is war evil, as it was rightly said here, but war can escalate at any time and stop being manageable and escalating to Central Europe. And I don't know if you can even imagine what might happen. That'll be hundreds of thousands and maybe millions dead in Central Europe. That means, we believe that we simply have to stop this war at all costs. And that we're not helping. We're helping. First, the SPD condemned Russia's aggression, just like the aggression of every other one that was. So that's one. Secondly, the Czech Republic - and here we have raised our hand to help. You have 420,000 Ukrainian visas, support is paid not only to Ukrajinec, support is paid to people who accommodate them and others. So we're helping. But we just don't want a war. War is pure evil. And every war ends in peace, and we want this peace to be discussed. I hope that's legitimate, and that's what we're entitled to. And if the Kreml feels the same way that the war should end, then that's good. I hope that the Ukrajinec should have the same view that the war should end as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u31	Another factual point, Mr Lochman. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u32	Thank you very much. Colleagues, I would like to respond to the words of my colleague, Mr Fiala, who said he was defending Czech interests. So I'd like to go back to voting on the penalty bill. You are talking about the EU being evil and that we need to make our own decisions. Well, the penalty law was the one that would allow us to make our own decisions as the Czech Republic. You turned him down, you didn't vote for him, but it's exactly the law that allows us to create our own penalty list. I didn't understand why you didn't want the Czech Republic to decide for itself where we could make our own decisions without the EU. Maybe it is because you have some strange notes from somewhere in the East. Maybe it's because it would put some friends of some kind at risk. I don't know. I'm just saying, if you're defending the Czech Republic, then fight the laws that are here for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u33	So your speech raised further factual points, namely Mr Žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u34	Thank you again. I don't want to keep it up, but it's still necessary to express yourself. You don't want an extension of war, you don't want an escalation, as we've heard, and you're against Ukrainian soldiers being trained in our country where the war isn't. Mr. Kobza, if I'm not mistaken, he said that he could imagine if we were practicing Ukrajinec in Halic, that is, in Ukrainian territory. Wouldn't that be taken from our side as the escalation? Isn't that exactly what we want to avoid because of a direct confrontation with the Russian Federation's army? You're gonna lure us into a trap. I think it is precisely the place for the European Union to take over, or we, within the European mission, and for this to take place on our territory. The risk here that we're going to be drawn into something, or that we're going to be labeled for it, is much lower. Co-worker Kobza, I repeat, he said here a moment ago that our training unit should go directly. That means going to Ukraine. I don't know yet that any state of the European Union or any other country has sent a training mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u35	Thank you very much. That was the last point of fact. We are returning to the general debate, which Mr Metnar has been in for quite a long time. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Ministers, let me also comment on this proposal on my part. The participation of the Army of the Czech Republic in international missions contributes to the stabilisation of an area that is really important for the security interests of the Czech Republic and the wider Euro-Atlantic space. The Czech Republic is a long-term and reliable partner in this area. This is also the case at a time when Europe faces major security challenges, and it is the strategic security concern of the Czech Republic to participate in ensuring international security and stability. Foreign policy security priorities of the Czech Republic are significantly influenced by Russian aggression in Ukraine. Despite this fact, the importance of international organisations' participation in stabilizing the security situation in other crisis regions, such as the Middle East and some Western Balkan countries, cannot be ignored or reduced. In September this year, a so-called large mandate was approved on the operation of the Ministry of Defence forces in foreign missions, which did not include a proposal on the operation of forces in Iraq and Kuwait. The Ministry of Defence's defence department proposes the presence of forces and resources in the operation of the global coalition in Iraq and Kuwait and NATO training mission in Iraq in a total number of up to 20 people, for the period from 1 January 2023 to the end of 2024. Given the need for an overall and long-term renewal of the security and defence sector of Iraq, the Czech Republic is expected to be military in Iraq in 2025. In Kosovo, between 1 July 2023 and 31 December 2024 the Defence Department proposes the operation of military police officers in a total of up to 40 persons, in addition to an already approved number of up to eight soldiers who carry out long-term tasks under the command structure of the KFOR mission. [[17.40 hours]] Russia's unprecedented aggression in Ukraine has led to the coordination of the European Union's and Alliance's common action on security-political issues and has accelerated further strengthening the Alliance's collective defence capabilities along its eastern border. There is agreement between the countries of the Alliance and the European Union to continue further assistance to Ukraine in a number of areas. The Member States of the European Union have approved, as has already been said, on 17 October this year an assistance mission for Ukraine aimed at training Ukrainian soldiers in the territory of the EU Member States. The contribution of the Czech Republic to Ukraine in the case of soldiers is proposed by the Ministry of Defence to implement - also said - in two parts. Let me just get this straight. According to information from the committee, 55 persons of Czech personnel should be allocated in the first part. In particular, they shall be sent to the command structures of this mission and, where appropriate, to instructors and small training teams operating within the EU. The second part would consist of the discussed training of Ukrainian soldiers in the territory of the Czech Republic in total up to 800 people, for the period from the date of Parliament's approval to the end of 2023. This is not the continuous presence of 800 soldiers, but the maximum number of persons in one approximately four-week training cycle. Furthermore, I would like to say to you that the overall objective of the Union Assistance Mission is to provide training of up to 15 000 Ukrainian soldiers mainly at the base in Poland and Germany. Up to two dozen EU countries want to be involved in training. The proposed scope of action in foreign operations is repeated proof of our reliability and readiness to continue to be actively involved and to ensure international security. I'm not gonna repeat myself in terms of the costs. For me, I will support this mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u37	Thank you. From the point of view, a colleague of Mr králíček also applied to the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. By the time you arrive at the speaker's desk, I'll apologize to Mrs Válková Helena at 18 o'clock for business reasons. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u38	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Government, fellow Members, I think there are many things that have been said here, but I did miss the essential one. Although - not only me, but also my colleagues receive a lot of emails from our fellow citizens, and please do not call them Kreme elements. They're citizens who are just scared. They're scared because I don't think they have enough information, they're not here with us, and I'm gonna admit that I'm missing the essential information, too. Citizens simply do not know how the exercises of Ukrainian soldiers will take place, how security is ensured and others. They're just scared, they don't have the information, and I'd like to ask for it, to take advantage of the Madam Secretary's presence. I just want to ask if he can tell us how security will be ensured, how security will be ensured in transporting those soldiers as they move, some information that would calm our citizens to prevent the misinformation spread by some of our fellow citizens, some people that it will look like one way or another, that we can be the target of a terrorist attack and so on and so on and so on. This concern of our fellow citizens who are writing to us, in my opinion, is simply based on ignorance, on lack of information, and because I believe that this appearance in the House is being watched by citizens and is likely to be broadcast on television, so I would ask the Minister in the context of what she can say, because I believe that some things should be kept secret in order to tell us how security will be ensured both by Ukrainian soldiers as such and by the security of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u39	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words. Yes, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll start right from the end. I will respond to Mr Králíček. Yes, of course, everything will be controlled by Military Intelligence. You are the chairman of the Permanent Committee on Military Intelligence, so even in agreement with General Beroun, it is certainly possible for you to have ongoing information on this Permanent Commission. With regard to supervision at the very point of the training, of course, military police will be present all the time, as is the case in these military premises, so from this point of view no one really needs to worry. I would also like to respond to the question of Mrs Válková, which was twofold. First of all, I said in the introductory words that we are organising this training on the basis of bilateral negotiations. Not a deal, a deal. Here we expect to be transferred to the European Union's assistance mission. That's what I said. But there is really no reason to divide this resolution, my colleague, through the Vice-President, because already in the big mandate that we approved here in the summer, so the stay of allied soldiers in the territory of the Czech Republic has been approved, so it is nothing new. And I think that you, my colleague, during this parliamentary term, that this is your third term in this House, and under your rule, there have been quite a common approval for missions where we have included soldiers into the so-called NATO and European Union emergency forces. So that's a perfectly common way, and the fact that you've noticed it now, maybe it's just weird that right now you've pointed it out, but otherwise it's a very common thing here in this House, and it's never been the subject of any legal or other disputes. For example, I've been thinking for over two decades, this is how British soldiers have been practicing under the so-called BMATT, so there's really nothing special going on. But if you would allow, colleagues, it has already been mentioned in part by Mr Žáček, but I am very interested in Mr Kobza's speech, and I think that perhaps even the SPD voters should turn on the record, because what Mr Kobza here said was actually the instigation of war by bringing the member state of the North Atlantic Alliance into this war. My colleague Kobza here said we should train Ukrainian soldiers in Ukraine. We are a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, all the time saying that we do not want the North Atlantic Alliance to be in this war conflict, that we do not want the European Union to be involved in this war conflict, and Mr Kobza wishes the exact opposite. He therefore wishes that NATO, through the Czech Republic as one of the Member States, should be involved in this conflict directly in the territory of Ukraine. Congratulations to the SPD voters!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u41	Thank you very much. That was the secretary's final word. I ask if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. It's not like that. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the debate in detail. There is no interest in the final words, it was in the general debate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. We will vote on two points. I would remind you that, on one point,vorum 101 is needed, on the second point, we will vote by an absolute majority of Members present. I will ask the rapporteur once again to read the resolutions so that colleagues and colleagues know what we will be voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u42	Thank you. Resolution of the Committee on Defence of the 19th meeting of 22 November 2022 on the proposal for the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territories of the Member States of the European Union, Iraq, Kuwait and Kosovo until 2022, with a view to 2025 and to the residence of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and of the Member States of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic until 2023. It's the House press number 339. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence Mgr Jana Černochová, Command Commander for Operation Army of the Czech Republic, generálporučík General . Josef Kopecký, MSc, Chief Military Police Colonel Mgr Otakar Foltýn, Deputy Vice-President of the Defence Committee Mgr Josef Flek and after the debate recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt the following resolution: [[17.50 hours]] I. He's saying yes. 1. with the intervention of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence (a) in the assistance mission of the European Union for Ukraine in the territory of the Member States of the European Union for a total of 55 persons, for a period from the date of approval by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2024, (b) in the operation of the Global Coalition to combat Daeš in Iraq and Kuwait and in the North Atlantic Treaty Training Mission in Iraq for a total of up to 20 people, for the period from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2024, (c) in the operation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Joint Enterprise under the KFOR forces in Kosovo for a total of up to 40 persons, for the period from 1 July 2023 to 31 December 2024, [[Kosovo Force]] 2. with the stay of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and of the Member States of the European Union for training in the territory of the Czech Republic in total up to 800 persons, for the period from the date of approval by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u43	And there's a point number two, if I'm not mistaken, a Roman two: he's asking the government to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u44	Yes. II. It asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies once a year, always by 30 June, of the deployment of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in the territories of the Member States of the European Union, Iraq, Kuwait and Kosovo and the residence of members of the armed forces of Ukraine and the Member States of the European Union in the territory of the Czech Republic in the previous year, within the framework of information on the deployment of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations in the relevant calendar year. He instructs the Committee's rapporteurs to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and also to the III. Instructs the President of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u45	Thank you, rapporteur. So we're going to vote two votes. The first will be the Roman one - it gives its consent, what you have read. This will be voted by the so-called number one, and I will ask that the right vote be set, and then we will proceed to the Roman Two vote, when we ask the government to inform the Chamber of Deputies once a year and so on. Yes, I've logged the check-out request. I'll check you all out, and I'll ask you to log in with your ID cards again. Now, thevorum is set to 101. The number of Members has slowed down, and I will therefore begin the vote and ask who is number one for the motion for a resolution, as it was loaded, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 6, 161 Members were enrolled, 144 voted in favour, 13 opposed. The motion was accepted. We will proceed to the vote on item two. Now the vast majority of Members present will be sufficient. I see the kvorum is set correctly. So I am opening the vote on this second item of the resolution and I am asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as it was loaded, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 161 Members voted in vote number 7, 143 voted in favour, 13 voted in favour, and this motion for a resolution was adopted. [[Attention to the President to correct himself.]] 146 voted in favour, against 13, the proposal was adopted. So we have adopted both the first and the second resolutions, and I am ending the discussion of the House's press 339. Madam Members, we have discussed the programme set out in the 47th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending here. [[Chairman of PSP Pekarová Adamová reports for the floor.]] Yes, Madam President, I think he's voting. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u46	I am sorry, but I should have abstained from voting on that first resolution at high school. I voted in favour and I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-29-ps2021-047-01-002-002.u47	Yes, so for the record. Thank you very much. So I am once again saying that we have discussed the agenda of the 47th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am ending with this, and I remind you that in ten minutes we will continue the adjourned 45th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
