ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 18th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who's asking for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 61 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 30 March of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Petr Vrána. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone else making a suggestion. I will engage and summon Members and Members to the Chamber. And now we will vote on whether to appoint a Member of Zdeněk Kettner and a Member of Petr Vrána to the verifier of this meeting. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number one, 135 Members and Members signed in for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Petr Vrána as verifiers of the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their non-Participation in the negotiations: Bartošek Jan - working grounds, Bělor Roman from 9.00 to 15.30 - working reasons, Benešík Ondřej - health reasons, Dufek Aleš - health reasons, Hájek Martin - health reasons, Šimon Šimon - working Helena, Horák Jiří - health reasons, Kasal David - health reasons, Klíma Pavel - working reasons, Knechtová Lenka - health reasons, Kocmanová Klára from 14.15 for working reasons, kolovratník Martin - health reasons, Lisová Martina - health reasons, Mašek Jiří Vích - health Radovan, Metnar Lubomír - health reasons, Pastuchová Jana - health reasons, Quittová Petra - health reasons, Richter Jan until 10.30 - working grounds, Schillerová Alena from 10.00 - working reasons, strýček Jiří from 13.30 to 15.30 for health reasons, Špičák Julius - health reasons, 10 hours - health reasons - Wenzl Tureček - medical Milan - medical reasons - medical Marek, Torek. The members of the government apologized: Fiala Petr - working reasons, Baxa Martin until 11.00 for health reasons and then from 18.00 for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš - working reasons, Černochová Jana - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna - working reasons, Jurečka Marian - working reasons, Kupka Martin - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena - health reasons, Lipavskýý Jan - foreign trip, Nekula Zdeněk - foreign trip, Stanjura Zbyněk within 12 hours for working reasons, Šalomoun Michal - working reasons, Válek Vlastimil until 10.30 for working reasons. Mr Kettner also apologizes for the cold. And we have one more apology cancelled, Mr. Jiří Strýček cancels his apology from 13.30 to 15.30. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And now we will proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 18th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to extend the approved agenda. With priority rights, applications have arrived from President Tomio Okamura and from President Radim Fiala. Now, I ask President Okamura to come to the counter and give his speech. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please lower your voice and give the President the opportunity to speak. I repeat once again and I ask you to keep your voice down, dear colleagues and colleagues! Yes, thank you. Thank you for your help, you seem to have higher authority, thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[The microphone isn't on.]] Yes, you have a chance to speak, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today at an emergency meeting called the Political Business of Stanislav Polčák, Vice-President of the STAN movement. Today, we were able to convene an extraordinary meeting on the political business of politicians of the government's STAN movement. The last drop in a long series of financial and other scandals by representatives of the STAN movement, when a large part of the public had already overflowed with the cup of patience, is the case of Vice-President STAN and MEP Stanislav Polčák, who asked for a commission of CZK 8 million from public money for the enforcement of the Act on Compensation for the Municipalities for the Blast in Vrbetice, also charged 47 000 CZK per hour for the meeting with Members of the House for a meeting with the SPD. We all voted for compensation for municipalities and citizens in Zlinsko here in the House. The fact that Stanislav Polčák has been promised a multimillion dollar public-money commission for the enforcement of the law, but he didn't tell anyone in the House before the vote on the law. [[9.10 hours]] Although Polčák resigned from the post of Vice-President of the STAN movement, which, according to my information, is not honored, he still refuses to resign from the generously paid post of MEP. Stanislav Polčák and the STAN movement therefore continue to refuse to draw full political responsibility from their actions. We demand that the Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the Stan Vít Rakušan explain this matter before the House and explain, namely, why, Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the Stan vědět Rakušan movement, do you not invite your colleague to resign as MEP? President STAN Vít Rakušan also refuses to answer the question whether the STAN will nominate Stanislav Polčák again next year in the elections to the European Parliament. The question has already been raised here in the House, but the chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan was here, and he didn't want to answer that question, because we would also immediately know how the chairman of the STAN is reacting to it. So far, we can see that he is protecting his friend and colleague Stanislav Polčák, or he is in fact in agreement with the negotiations. So Vít Rakušan doesn't know how to face a case, and like I said, he's a vampire. Like Prime Minister Petr Fiala of ODS, who is still silent on the repeated scandals of his coalition movement STAN. For the SPD, this procedure of the Polčákův is completely unacceptable. The SPD movement has long been proposing a law on the direct choice and revocability of politicians and their material responsibilities, which would allow this and similar situation to be resolved. However, the current government coalition of Petr Fiala from the ODS repeatedly refuses to include it on the agenda, discuss and approve it. For today's meeting of the House, I also noted, among other things, the view that nothing really happened. Mr. Polčák said he gave up his $8 million commission, so he said there was no damage. To begin with, I would say the very essential thing: if it were not for the unveiling of journalists, everything in quotes is in order from the perspective of the STAN movement, and the money would be on account of MEP Polčák from STAN. Besides, Polčák said his associates at his law firm would be billing their money. One of the top representatives of the government's STAN movement tried to explain his actions by being business, business. But, ladies and gentlemen, this wasn't about business. It was a subsidy to municipalities for damages after the explosions in Vrbětice, which was paid by the state as a gift to damaged municipalities and their citizens. I hope it's clear from the principle that this wasn't a business. Moreover, all those who voted for this subsidy, including members of the SPD, deserved this gift to the affected citizens and their communities, and I also believe that if the starosta turned to any of us with a request for help, I believe that the vast majority of us would have prepared and voted for such a proposal, and I doubt that any one of us would have thought of collecting money for this. Considering that this was done by the vice president of the gang, who pretends to defend the interests of small towns and represent the mayor, I'm just asking myself, "What is this STAN? Isn't it just a commercial milking project, a money machine, where STAN trades laws or subsidies here in the House, and for that, people in the leadership of the STAN simply collect? According to the evidence so far, that's true. STAN is simply and simply a political-business project of a narrow group of people. And I don't think many of the members of the STAN movement who are sitting here may have even known about these transactions of their own leadership, some of them may have, some of them have not. Therefore, President Vít Rakušan refuses, despite repeated calls, to ask his Vice-President Stanislav Polčák to present an overview of all the public-money contracts that Stanislav Polčák had, because in my view, more tens or hundreds of millions of crowns billed to cities and municipalities, and would show a huge conflict of interest. It would be necessary for all of us to know this, to pay attention to what the STAN movement is presenting here, namely this government, so that we know who and why STAN is paying. It would be fair if Chairman STAN Vít Rakušan didn't put his cries on his nose that he wanted some good for them. The people in STAN's leadership just want to make money. And whoever has the money can probably buy STAN's services. That is why Vít Rakušan still refuses to say who the end-owners of the companies that sponsored the STAN and Pirates coalition in Cyprus are. At the same time, we already know that another Vice-President of STAN, Věslav Michalik, is in the subsidization solar business, also has companies in the tax haven in Cyprus, apparently in order to avoid paying higher taxes in the Czech Republic, as the overwhelming majority of our citizens must pay. However, Mr Polčák's actions were not legal in my opinion. If the municipalities were granted a de facto assigned subsidy, then they were not entitled to use the EUR8 million fee for MEPs and Vice-President STAN Polčák. In fact, if the municipalities took money to bail out the damage and instead paid out the lobbyist and Vice-President of STAN in one person to Stanislav Polčák, then I think it would be a grant fraud. And Mr. Polčák, who organized it all, would not only be, but in my opinion, he is a regular accomplice. In my opinion, the crime happened here, even though it wasn't finished, and it remained at the trial stage. Even preparation is criminal. The entire government coalition of Petr Fiala has built a program only to fight Andrej Babiš, a court on suspicion of subsidy fraud. I am surprised, therefore, that Prime Minister Petr Fiala is not fighting with Stanislav Polčák, and in my opinion, his fraud was really rude, because here he was circling the House and plowing the law with a myth that he was doing it to help the village, and so far he just needed to grease his pocket. He misled us here to gain property benefits. That, in my opinion, is really a scam. STAN's affairs aren't over. As we remember, the Minister of Industry and Trade, a man who decides billions, was to become another Vice-President of STAN, Věslav Michalik, a man who also appears to be a very strong milker. As we know, it is indeed a solar baron who, moreover, brings money into tax havens, specifically Cyprus. This solar baron, who did not eventually become the Minister on the basis of scandalous media revelations, remained Vice-President of the STAN movement, which means Vít Rakušan is covering for him again. This, of course, tells the President of STAN Vít Rakušan that the fact that someone is leading hundreds of millions to Cyprus and perhaps elsewhere is in line with the position of the STAN movement. To harm our country, to take money from it is simply in line with the STAN program. After all, another Vice-President of STAN and now ex-Deputy Jan Farský has gone to the USA to study the federalization of the European Union, i.e. the demise of the Czech Republic. In other words, basically treason. And before the elections, he gave him the honour of both Vít Rakušan and Prime Minister Petr Fiala of ODS, who apparently does not mind the federalization of the European Union. [[9.20 hours]] It was very rude of the STAN movement to promise citizens, first publicly and in writing before the elections, that their Members would devote themselves fully to the work of a Member, and then they cheated them when Jan Farský had an eight-month stay in the US before the elections, and he had to take the salary of a Member without working in the House. That takes a really good stomach. But you can see that STAN is just not afraid to milk the state properly. It just doesn't mix with government screams about savings. Petr Fiala's government saves money on poor working people, seniors, students, health care, but in quotes, boys who talk to each other don't save money on themselves. As we know, after the criticism and pressure of the public, the media finally resigned Farský as a Member, but he remained Vice-President of the STAN movement. Other Vice-President of the STAN and Minister of Education Petr Gazdík are behind the scandal. A week ago, it was publicly said that he had half a share in a company that deals with property management, construction and investment management, even though it is prohibited by law. The conflict of interest law obliges ministers to cease business activities within 30 days of the acquisition of office. Minister is Gazdík since last December 17th. Minister Gazdík makes excuses for forgetting. So both President STAN, Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Rakušan, and Vice-Presidents STAN Farský, Polčák, Michalik, Gazdík, literally all of STAN's leadership, have major financial and other scandals in the short run of government. How much more will this other strongest government party have, and why is Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS still silent about it? If Prime Minister Fiala wants a really positive change, he will immediately withdraw STAN from the government. But the Prime Minister is shamefully sticking his head in the sand. The right Prime Minister should not be silent about lying and such political fraud. It's clear that these scams and lies intersected by a party called STAN should not have access to the distribution of public finances. That makes sense. And I call on Prime Minister Fiala to consider the participation of the STAN people in the government. Vít Rakušan as Minister of the Interior is, of course, in a very strong conflict of interest, because the police should investigate both the financing of his crew and his vice-chairman. Moreover, according to public information, the police are also investigating the activities of Vít Rakušan himself in Cologne when he was mayor. Why am I talking about it all this way? Because it was just Vít Rakušan, Mr Farský and others, Mr Gazdík, who have been hard-judged by other political parties here, who have been hit hard and lied differently here, I remember it very well, and pretended that they are the ones who are completely clean, who have no butter on their head. That's the point of why I'm talking about this. It's according to the old Czech proverb the thief screams catch the thief. It's figuratively speaking, the proverb. That means, that's why we need to ask these questions, because, of course, the representatives of the STAN movement, the leadership of the STAN movement, ostensibly here in front of the public, and repeatedly, attacked other political parties, without any evidence. They attacked, but it turns out they have butter on their heads themselves. Now I'm being looked at by the chairman of the STAN Josef Cogan MP's club. And why is he silent about the whole thing? I, Mr President of the STAN, through the President, President Cogan, have not noticed any of your comments on these scandals of your fellow Members. You are also in the top management of the STAN movement, and you have also recently shouted some attacks, of course unsubstantiated, but you are here openly covering these things that your colleagues from STAN leadership are doing. So you don't have any butter on your head, either, that you're not talking about it? Isn't there something about you? 'Cause otherwise, I can't imagine your silence when you were here last time you were eloquent. Because silence means consent. This is also a famous Czech proverb. This means, therefore, Vít Rakušan should not be Minister of the Interior even for a second, since the fact that he tried to influence the police is quite obvious in my view. The whole Republic knows that Vít Rakušan invited the Interior Minister before his appointment - I stress that it was before the appointment of Vít Rakušan as Interior Minister - to his office here in the House of Police President Jan Švejdar. And Vít Rakušan still doesn't want to say what he said to the former police president today, but the result of this meeting was a voluntary resignation of a police president who had pure moral credit. In my opinion, Vít Rakušan pressured the police not to investigate the events surrounding the STAN movement. And the police president resisted Mr. Rakušan's extortion, but at the expense of resigning himself. In conclusion, I will sum up three questions to President STAN Vít Rakušan and I would ask him only for a brief answer yes - no, so that he does not make excuses here and say it like he did last time, and then he doesn't answer the questions at all. So briefly and simply: First, why not invite your colleague Stanislav Polčák to resign as MEP? [[Resurrection in the hall, laughter, notes from the hall that can't be answered yes - no.]] So answer us why don't you challenge us. Now you're making this serious and the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club laugh at what we're discussing. I don't think it's funny. So it would be good to answer why you didn't. Well, the fact that you can't answer that yes -- no, I'm sure you'll fill in a few words to make it clear to everyone. By yes - no, of course, it was meant to be cut short, because what we saw here the last time you walked around the bush and we still - yes, we basically learned that you were behind Mr. Polčák and other exponents. So I would like to make it clear that you will invite your colleague Stanislav Polčák to resign as MEP. That can certainly be answered yes - no. On the other hand, I'm glad that the government MPs are listening to me here, some of them, so I'm sure they'll remember what we're talking about. Secondly, do you personally agree with the nomination of Stanislav Polčák next year in the elections to the European Parliament? Because last time we asked, Minister, you vědět Rakušan, and you were talking about him showing up next year, and I don't know what you said here. So I'm interested in your personal opinion as President of the STAN, if you personally agree to the nomination of Stanislav Polčák next year in the elections to the European Parliament. Well, now the important thing, and that, Minister, is the most important thing from my point of view. Of course, the first two questions are important, and it is necessary to face up to this, but: you ask Stanislav Polčák - that is question number three - to present an overview of all the contracts he has had and has from public money for all the time he is a Member so that he can check the public, but here too, Members of other parties, how many tens or hundreds of millions of crowns has billed his law firm to cities and municipalities from public money and for what? That's the most important question. And it's the most important requirement. That's the most important thing from my point of view. Of course, all three questions are important and crucial, but here it is extremely important, because at the moment that it leaked to the surface, that in one particular community Mr.Polčák wanted an eight-million-dollar commission, and in public there is information that he basically made a political business out of it, and some others obviously, when they bill basically out of public money, so it would be good, so it would be really good, that these are the contracts, that they are business cases, as he says, so it would be good for the public, journalists and everyone to see what he had billed for, in fact, how much of it had the commissions. [[9.30 hours]] I also ask because, as I said last time, Mr. Polčák visited my office three times and lobbied there for the law. So I thought that as an MP, as we normally talk to many Members here, they would come to ask about the law or the law - will you not support, support? But I really didn't know that he then billed CZK 47,000 per hour of public money for his meeting with the SPD members, as it follows from the published reports, for those cities, municipalities and so on. This means that I, too, would basically be interested, and I think it would be of interest to a number of other Members here, especially those opposition members who were here last term, whether, how much and to what extent he billed for a meeting with the SPD Members. Apparently, he also billed for a meeting with members of the ANO movement. Because that's what that one published statement says. And that was only on one case. But Mr. Polčák lobbied here more than once. I remember, and I've witnessed it myself, and I have witnesses, because my assistant here in the House has introduced Mr. Polčák to my office three times, so it's a perfectly proven fact. That means, I wonder, Mr. Polčák didn't tell me, because apparently he didn't tell his colleagues that he was going to bill 47,000 an hour for these meetings. So I'm wondering how much you billed for those meetings with the MPs. 'Cause I think it should be clear and all the way back there. So I'm not gonna stretch it out. It's basically the real questions. You see, I'm talking calmly because we'd like to get some answers, and we don't have to deal with this for long. I think the point really is the statement. Mr Polčák has been a Member long enough, I must say. So basically, don't take my word for it now, it's been reports in about the last ten years. But what I have such a hunch is that there really was an invoicing of huge sums to cities and municipalities for various cases and huge payments of money. And here we need the public to get to know it exactly after this case. So that's what this is about, if you ask Mr. Polčák. Not only would you ask, Mr Minister, whether you would also secure the statement, and simply give it a public look, or at least a glimpse, so that other members of parliament can get acquainted with it, such as the media that dealt with this case. To the very end, from another keg. I would like to ask a representative of the STAN movement, because I assume that no one else is going to perform, whether they would give a matter-of-fact attention to what the meeting is about today. Because it always slides down here to attack other sides. But we are not the subject of this meeting here. If you have anything against the SPD or any other opposition party, call an emergency meeting. That's no problem. If it has a head and a heel, if there's anything conclusive, that's your right. But I would like to, because this debate should be relevant to keep you from attacking other parties here unfoundedly in order to divert attention from this subject. Here's the information we're asking about - because I know it can make STAN's representatives angry, but that's all the information that's from the media. I would like to emphasise that. So I'd also like to ask Mr. First Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan not to turn to the SPD here in response, because I'm only asking questions that were in mainstream media. He didn't find Okamura, that didn't pull out the SPD. That was in the national media. That's why we're asking. That means, it would really be very desperate if someone here were to put their hands on the SPD movement. That would mean that he doesn't actually have arguments and that he can't face it. Because who else would ask? I mean, it's media information, and you and the media haven't answered these questions that I'm asking here. So basically everything I've put out here, what I've said, is questions from the media. So maybe we can ask that here. Why am I asking the question here if we can ask? I'm going to follow up on another thing I wanted to point out here. Ladies and gentlemen, the government coalition of Petr Fiala from the ODS in the House canceled by its decision today's interpellation to the Prime Minister and to ministers so that the opposition from the SPD and YES to governments could not ask any questions. The Prime Minister's interpelations weren't even last time. So we haven't had a chance to ask Prime Minister Fiala anything in a month. At the same time, Vice-President of the ODS and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura said last meeting when we wanted to ask Prime Minister Fiala that we should ask him about the intercessions and that the Prime Minister would be happy to answer. It was a lie. Prime Minister Petr Fiala does not want to answer the opposition's questions as part of the direct transmission interpelations. He's just scared. Because Prime Minister Fiala was here yesterday, it's not over because he was here yesterday at the House. It's the second situation - he's been abroad before, yes, so we respected that, but it's the second time we can't ask Prime Minister Fiala anything. He goes on television alone, into debate, and he doesn't want to go into any television debate with the opposition party's chairman, obviously, specifically with me. I would like to go live with Mr. ODS President Petr Fiala in order for a democratic confrontation to take place. But obviously, I can't wait. Scared? Well, apparently the Prime Minister is afraid. I'm not scared. And why aren't the interpelations today? Why aren't there interpelations on the ministers and the Prime Minister? In a situation as serious as this, there's an upheaval that the government doesn't deal with. It solves it in such a way that it doesn't really help anyone. It doesn't really help anybody at all, because the reduction in the price of petrol and diesel by the crown, that's really a complete mockery compared to the surrounding countries. This is where the comparison with the surrounding countries is important. And we want to ask why he doesn't deal with the expensive. When there is a 40% increase in new executions under the reign of Petr Fiala compared to the situation six months ago when he was not in the government. These are the figures of the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences. We want to ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala live why he's sticking his head in the sand and not dealing with it. Why the government is not operational. Why doesn't he help people, why he doesn't have time for Czech citizens. But we can't ask him for a month. We also want to ask about other current issues that are here. But Petr Fiala is afraid to answer opposition questions live. I see this as a big problem because it was you - but we too - who criticized in the opposition during the last parliamentary term when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, for example, did not show up quite often for questioning and we could not ask. And you criticized it loudly, you criticized it loudest. Now that you and your ministers and Prime Minister Petr Fiala are doing the same thing, is that okay? So I think the five-calice government of Petr Fiala is heading the Czech Republic towards dictatorship and totalitarianism. Because we've seen it happen recently, too, about how you pushed the pandemic law. There's already a constitutional complaint about how you've been taking the floor here and so on. We also saw it when you extended the emergency by more than 30 days last time, although most constitutional lawyers agree that the maximum extension may be 30 days and then you have to ask for an extension in the House again. Of course, we voted against the emergency situation. So I think it's really high time the citizens stopped talking and called out loud. [[9.40 hours]] This means that I would really ask you to behave democratically, because the interpelations are guaranteed by the Constitution and the rules are laid down in the House's Rules of Procedure Act. And I would like you to - you have such an idea that the opposition here just jumps like you whistle, but we're definitely not going to do that, or we're not going to come here at all, so you guys can talk about what they wanted. So with these interpelations, it's really way over the line, I gotta say. Way over the line. Because we just have the right to those interpelations, and in the way that you voted yesterday, that they wouldn't be interpelling today so you wouldn't have to answer the uncomfortable questions of the opposition, which I think is really a complete peak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to point out, I didn't want to interrupt you: you used some words in your speech that are definitely not appropriate for the House of Deputies. Thank you. [[Laughs and notes from the left side of the Chamber: Which, which?]] And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u4	Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, we and the media have named this extraordinary meeting as a meeting for the Polčák case called the Political Enterprise of Stanislav Polčák, i.e. Stanislav Polčák's case, a politician, a Member of the European Parliament, an honorary President of the Association of Local Authorities, here I will mention only this year, and today the former Vice-President of STAN, who was supposed to receive approximately CZK 8 million from four municipalities in exchange for help in enforcing the law - obtaining compensation for the explosion of ammunition warehouses in Vrbetice. However, I would venture to say that this is not quite the right name and perhaps not quite complete, because this meeting should have the subtitle of this extraordinary meeting, that it affects the behaviour of the STAN movement and, above all, the threat of trust in the democratic legislative process. This is, above all, the most important real nature of this problem. This may sound strange at the moment, but this is not about the specific amount that Stanislav Polčák has asked for, but about the fact that he promised to enforce the law in exchange for money, and at the same time, what he promised the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, who, of course, is chairman and is from the same side, is not weird that one of the top politicians of the political party is promising the equipment of the law, or more precisely the facility of money from the state register and is taking, or wants to take a commission from it. I could have used a much stronger phrase at the beginning. I didn't dare, but I could have said the subtitle was not the behavior of the STAN movement, but the mafia behavior. And if I dare to say it, I could afford to say it because Mr. Polčák, for example, in an interview for News. cz admitted that the leadership of the STAN movement knew about his work all along. So at this point, when someone pauses on it, he, Mr. Polčák, claims everyone knew about it. The Vrbětice case is connected to one more case within the STAN, and this is Mr. Mayor Vlachovice. This village is most affected, and I must say that by the fact that Mr. Mayor Vlachovic had already approved the remuneration for himself in the budget of CZK 1.2 million, we can no longer, in my opinion, speak of any clumsyness, even if the Minister of the Interior has already said that it is contrary to any law on municipalities, but it was already in the draft budget. It is clear that the act must still be carried out by the authorities of the village. I have to say that I am terribly sorry that I have tried twice here to call on the coalition Members, in particular, to include this item on the agenda, because I believe that together we should signal that this should never happen again in the future and that we should make it clear that this is not okay, because then I perceive it, and also my opponents, that you are in agreement with this procedure. And no way, and we all know that, because I'm talking to colleagues across the political spectrum, and I can see from my coalition colleagues that the coalition doesn't agree with what happened. I was very surprised by the expression, or rather the expression of the Minister and the Chairman of the STAN movement, who actually said that it was political clumsy. So I don't know what I have underneath it - what does it mean, the political mistake? I'm thinking it's been discovered? That we found out in the media? I really don't know what to say. Because it wasn't political clumsy. If it hadn't been discovered, the trial would have been brought to an end. And the question is, how else is this going to work out? I really believe, even my colleagues from our club, that this case cannot be resolved by giving up the post of Vice-President of this political party alone. I had the opportunity to register in the media because Mr. Polčák still gives a number of statements when he said: I'm not going anywhere, I'm not going anywhere, there's no way I'm planning it. Yes? So these are statements that say, and really sometimes, when I see some of these expressions, they affect me, and I let myself say it as arrogant, because like they say, nothing can ever happen to us. I went through the pages of all anti-corruption organizations yesterday before my speech. And I was very surprised that none of the anti-corruption organizations were involved in this case. It wasn't even a line. I'm convinced that... and I thought, when I was the deputy at the inside, and I negotiated with these anti-corruption organizations a number of laws to publish contracts, to register contracts, tonight, when we have an organization to oversee the financing of political parties, those were all the laws that I put forward, so I believed that they were anti-corruption organizations and that they were going to do these things. At the same time, I am very surprised that the Czech Pirate Party does not comment on this case at all. The one that was part of those anti-corruption organizations. For example, Jakub Michálek, chairman of the Czech Pirate Party MP's club, won first place in these anti-corruption organizations. I didn't notice one of his performances, one of his statements in this case. [[9.50 hours]] I must say that Mr Stanislav Polčák is to the present moment, as I said at the outset, still an honorary chairman of the Association of Local Authorities. When negotiating and negotiating this compensation law, he sometimes acted as a lawyer, where he had full authority from those municipalities, and also acted as chairman of the Association of Local Authorities. When we look at the press conference that took place in January this year, the Minister of the Interior made it clear that he would like to thank the municipalities concerned, the Association of Local Government and the Ministry of the Interior, which wrote the law, submitted that he would like to thank all these actors very much and that it is good that this was done. When I looked a little under that lid of the Association of Local Authorities, it certainly is no secret that the Association of Local Authorities - I don't want to say that there are mayors from the Mayors and Independents in particular - I wouldn't dare do that. But we all know the history that the Union of Towns and Communities has been here in the past and, in a way, the Association of Local Authorities has been created as a "anti-organization" defending the interests of the mayors, and in its leadership today it has the chair of STAN. Mr. Polčák was also from STAN, and I found on the website that actually Mr. Mayor Vlachovic Zdeněk Hověžák is chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Association of Local Authorities. Well, that's a little bit of a shock and a little bit of a surprise, too. And I must say that you must have registered that the members of the Czech Post Supervisory Board have changed, and for the very first time historically, the Czech Post Supervisory Board is a representative of the Association of Local Authorities. So there was never a representative in history, there was a representative of the Association of Regions and the Union of Towns and Municipalities. In conclusion, I have to say that it seems to me at this point, I dare say it is comical that, in my opinion, the STAN movement is trying to divert attention from this case, and that is why today, at 8 hours 45 minutes, the senators have called a conference to the so-called Lex Vrbětice law, where they have questioned and wish to make a proposal to abolish part of this law, on the ground that citizens who do not have permanent residence in the territory of these municipalities concerned will not receive compensation. I would like to say that the law was passed here in the Chamber of Deputies and then in the Senate. There was a press conference today at 8:40. Senators filed it for STAN, 19 senators. And so I ask if there will be any reward again for correcting the mistakes in the fact that something has been written wrong. I must say that yesterday, for example, I also had a press conference held on 28 May, which is also in Mr Polčák's list of what he charges for the reward. And I have to say that the press conference has already been concluded, and this reporter is asking, "Could you tell us how much damage you've put into these residents? And Mr Hamáček answers: Mr Polčák will not comment on the amount of funds, because this will be the subject of further negotiations. And the editor asks, "And in order?" And Mr. Polčák answers, satisfied, for our party. Because today we have to ask ourselves why 310 million? That was for the five municipalities, then there were still funds for the Zlín Region. Who determined the amount? Who came up with her? I would also like to know the answer to that question, who decided on this amount. And really seriously. We believe that the only right solution is the resignation of Mr Polčák and the resignation of all the other persons who participated in this indisputable case, and we are convinced and we would ask all of you to approve today's agenda of the meeting, because we should adopt a clear resolution rejecting any attempt to obtain commissions or other fulfilment for obtaining laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u5	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I have a message here: Vice-President Jan Skopeček votes with a replacement card 24. And one more apology: President Alena Schillerová apologizes between 9:00 and 10:00 for work reasons. I would now ask my colleague to take over the management of the meeting. I'm logged in with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u6	Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen, we are at an extraordinary meeting on the agenda, and at the moment, with priority rights, the Vice-President, Mrs Věra Kovářová, is registered. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u7	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here at the initiative of the ANO and SPD movement, perhaps mainly to waste time and waste taxpayers' money. There is no other point in this extraordinary meeting! [[Speech of disapproval from the left.]] It's just a waste of time and a waste of money. It would certainly be more useful if the Chamber of Deputies dedicated these missed hours to the laws that need to be discussed. And we've got enough on the agenda. But instead of doing a useful job here, we're supposed to talk about something that the Yes and the SPD call the Polčák cause, but what isn't a big case. Not at all a topic for an emergency meeting. My colleague Polčák provided legal services to people and municipalities in the area of Vrbětic, so this certainly did not involve the transfer of property according to the model of Čapího čapí, nor was it another state-owned ridiculous subsidy, for example, on toast bread. That was fundamentally different. Legal services provided by Mr Stanislav Polčák helped municipalities, regions and individual citizens to obtain compensation. Yes, a colleague of mine Polčák may have made a mistake in wanting to get paid for his work as a lawyer. He admitted this mistake and is responsible for it and for its punishment. And once again, Stanislav Polčák has withdrawn from all contracts, which means that this has all been resolved. He also accepted political responsibility when resigning as Vice-President of the STAN movement. In my opinion, this issue is completely exhausted and there is nothing further to talk about. But we're having an emergency meeting, obviously we can't escape it. Then let's ask! Let us ask what is really important in the Vrbětice case. Let us ask questions that should be answered in particular by Mr Babiš, Mrs Schillerová and others. [[10.00 hours]] And the question is, why did the villagers of the affected explosions really need lawyers? Didn't the state meet them immediately and give them a fair compensation? Didn't the then Minister of Finance Babiš and his colleagues from ANO come right after the bombings and take care of the citizens? These are really interesting questions about Vrbětice. And let's say the answers: People from Vrbětice and the neighborhood needed lawyers because the state let them down. The state paid each evacuated as a single dose of only CZK 3,000, which is a really ridiculous amount, and then became a member of Andrej Babiš and other people from ANO hard-hitting to give even one more crown. And if you were to contact the mayors of the affected municipalities, you would know how many times they were in the Chamber of Deputies, how many times Mr. Mayor Hověžák was performing here, how many times he asked the state to help them, how he visited Minister Alena Schillerová and the municipalities asked for compensation and the answer was: you will not receive any money. Of course, the municipalities would want subsidy money, but the government didn't hear it at the time. Perhaps the Prime Minister here can defend himself by the Social Democrats and then Prime Minister Sobotka. But if the government could not deal honestly with the situation in Vrbětice, Prime Minister Sobotka's government, then perhaps the government could have done the following, namely the government of Andrej Babiš. Isn't that right? It's my question. But neither Sobotkův's government nor Prime Minister Babiš's government were going to take care of people. Just a reminder, the explosion in Vrbětice was in 2014. For seven years neither Prime Minister Sobotka's government nor Prime Minister Babiš's government did. So let's talk and discuss the real shame, the shame for which no one has ever apologized. And here you have to ask then Prime Minister Babiš, Secretary of Finance Schillerová and other government officials: How could you allow Czech citizens years and years and other long years to beg the state to be replaced by the damage after the bombings in Vrbětice? Do you realize how insensitive, unfair it was, how rude it was on your part? You're here to build on Mr. Polčák's money. What an incredible impertinence! [[Restlessness in the ranks of members of YES and SPD.]] He took over the village, and then the things had a fast pace. You are your inactivity, your arrogance, and not interested in the impact of tragedy on citizens have deepened their problems and misfortunes. And now you stand here as the bloom of the righteous? I must repeat this once more: it is incredibly impertinent of you. If it weren't for Members and their draft law on compensation for citizens, the government of Andrej Babiš and Alena Schillerová wouldn't give a crown to these people, these municipalities and the region. That's the truth. That's what people should be ashamed of. They should apologize to the citizens for that. And instead, you're spending taxpayers' money on a completely unnecessary emergency meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u8	I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I can only see at this moment because I represent that the next person claiming priority rights is the chairman of the SPD MP Radim Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u9	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before I get to what I have noted here, I would like to respond, through Madam President, to my previous speaker's speech, in two levels. The first one is that he's actually saying that we're spending taxpayers' money here. Madam President, we are representatives of the people, of the citizens who voted for us, as well as of you, and those people want us to explain these things. It's not that we made something up, but you and I have a lot of letters, lots of phone calls, and people want to know how it really is with Mr. Polčák. And saying we're not supposed to deal with this is political arrogance. It's similar to political arrogance when you say you approve an emergency for 58 days, because after 30 days, it would be just a waste of time and a waste of time. That's not true. These are the things that we have to discuss here, and that is just the way it is in all parliaments. That was the first plane I wanted to sum up. The second level of your speech today was that you said that, in fact, everything Mr Polčák did was right, it was okay, he had nothing to be ashamed of, he was a true gentleman. I'm convinced it's not, and I'm gonna try to explain it here. Unexplained problems and cases of the STAN movement accompany us as an endless series literally today and daily throughout this entire term of office. And, of course, they have their roots in the deeper past. What we're dealing with here today didn't just happen today, it's days, months, years ago, when these cases began to evolve. Basically, it can be said that the problems with financing, concealing information and the ubiquitous lobbying at the limit of the law, and perhaps beyond, must be said by someone else, perhaps the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, are the most accurate characteristic of the current and past STAN movement, which is a distinguishing sign replacing it with the absence of a political programme and real political work for citizens. The leaders of the movement, including Mr Polčák, simply make their political engagement under the popular head of the starosta, although far from representing all the mayors in a country whose title they merely usurp and usurp for themselves, they have made an advantageous business, some perpetuum mobile for money and influence, based on what they verbally and falsely condemn, mainly on massive accumulation of functions. After all, it can be seen: they call themselves starosta, and their political engagement has led them to the government as ministers and vice-premieres. So maybe it would be time to think that the name of the movement could change to the vicepremiér Prime Minister, ministers, mayors and independents. For example, Mr Polčák's business is based on merger and exploitation, or rather abuse of his mandate and role as MEP, advocate and long-time Chairman of the Association of Local Authorities, which does not separate but, on the contrary, connects and uses it for massive lobbying and, above all, for the accumulation of his own revenue, especially from public money. I wonder if Mr Polčák would, if he were not one of the STAN officials, if he were not a MEP, if he did not have direct links and contacts with politicians in the Czech Republic, lobby for the Act on Compensation in Vrbětice and if the mayors would also listen to him? I think that this is a clear conflict of interest, when Mr Polčák joined up two of his functions, namely as a politician and a lawyer, combined politics and business. He connected what you were so critical of in the '90s, what you were so critical of later, and now it's actually coming back to us in the form of the STAN movement. [[10.10 hours]] And it's not just that Lex Vrbětice, which is just the top of a famous glacier, whipped cream on a rotten cake. STAN's funding case has slowly fallen through hidden sponsors, when payments and donations were distributed to smaller amounts. To this day, we do not know for what purpose this was to be done, what was to be hidden and who the real donors and sponsors are. No one seems to care anymore either. Not even investigative journalists, not just anyone. The whole case went down, like another case of this five-wheeler went down, and on the outside, it looks like nobody cares, and it's not a big deal either. I will come back to this, whether it was also essentially a kind of money laundering and an attempt to avoid thorough control by banks and financial authorities, which have a legal obligation to review suspicious transfers of more than EUR 15 000, which is roughly CZK 375 000. I want to remind you that it is probably merely a coincidence that all the written gifts of Cypriot companies were below this limit. But today we are discussing Mr. Polčák and back to Mr. Polčák. I mean, what I'm gonna say right now, I've got a source. I Googled everything, pulled it out of the media, mostly Czech TV, Czech Radio and so on. I always tell you where I found it. We must not forget his rich contacts with a fellow fugitive criminal, Mafia boss Radovan Krejčíř, Michal Redl. Polčák, according to the Czech Radio Radio Radio, is a source, you can complain to your colleagues at Radiožurnál - in the past he has consulted STAN's personnel nominations for positions in the authorities of companies founded by the capital city of Prague and important positions at the Prague City Council. There are also documents in the form of e-mail communication. This Mr Redl has been prosecuted in two cases with Radovan Krejčíř in the past, such as the tunneling of Česká spořitelna, where 100 million crowns disappeared. Then let's just know what kind of company it is. By the way, Mr Polčák was at the time justifying this by helping Mr Redl to find real experts in the field of energy and water supply. We hear that all the time. This government is looking for real experts. He also argued that Mr Redl was finally not convicted in Krejčířův's cases, but he forgot to add that it happened only because his prosecution was stopped for a alleged mental illness which allegedly did not allow him to understand the criminal proceedings. But in other cases, such as in the consultations of the STAN movement on the occupation of lucrative posts, this disease was no longer an obstacle to him. The interest in fairy tales and lying lies is therefore owned by STAN's officials for a long time. We could even laugh about it if it wasn't for such serious things and so the unbridled arrogance of power and ridicule to the citizens of the STAN movement. I remind you what Vice-President Kovářová told us here that we are spending taxpayers' money unnecessarily, and that we should be focusing on something else, that it is unnecessary political debate. Based on these facts, I am convinced that we are obliged to talk about this here, to talk about it so that citizens can get a picture. Other politicians of the STAN movement, such as Petr Gazdík and Zlin's mayor Miroslav Adámek, had to admit ties to Mr Redl. Miroslav Adámek said - quote: "When I meet him, I would not say as a doctor that he has any medical disability. I'd have to know the reason, but there's no physical problem. It is certainly not that I have nothing to say to him," said the Radiožurnál to Michal Redl, the mayor of Zlín for the STAN Adámek movement. So it's the source again, I repeat, Radiožurnal. No invention. By the way, Mr Redl, former krejčířův's aide, recently met the director of the Czech Post Czech Post Roman Knap, who explained this meeting with the words that it was a meeting in the post-election adjustment of the spaghetti of power. I add that the Czech Post falls under the Ministry of the Interior Ministry's Resort, led by Mr. Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement. So maybe he can tell us something, too. How do you reconfigure, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, the spaghetti of power when you called off the Supervisory Board for reasons - and now I don't think I'm gonna tell you exactly, so you can explain it to us - from being incompetent or not working properly? But while you left Mr. Netolický governor in the Supervisory Board, he was probably competent, but he couldn't do anything about it. I don't know if it's some kind of clientelism. But resetting the spaghetti of power, I wonder what it looks like in the submission of the STAN movement. And let's not forget another case of the STAN movement, which isn't very much talked about, and it's also recent. It's also like the press didn't see her. This time it concerns the deputy mayor of Prague and the president of the Prague organization STAN Petr Hlubuček. According to public sources, this person is to be investigated by the police on suspicion of economic offences. "We know he's under investigation. Even if the police haven't charged him yet, this is an unpleasant situation for us. Of course, we are also considering the possibility of him resigning," said one of the members of the STAN server leadership. The source will not affect the server. In addition, Mr Hlubuček refuses to publish his property return and is hiding with his property conditions, although according to the server list.cz and other sources own million-dollar properties. By the way, it was MEP Polčák who, as then chairman of the Association of Local Authorities at the end of 2020, acknowledged the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which stood up for local politicians refusing to publish their property conditions on the Internet. Deputy Hlubuček is also - what a wonder - long-term associate, as he admits, with the right hand of Krejčíř Michal Redl, who is basically, according to available sources, probably the most important advisor to the STAN movement. The circle is closing. And in this context, I remember some famous Italian series where fearless policemen fought the mob. When the media turned to Deputy Hlubuček and asked him to send a property confession, as the Ministry of Justice does not currently allow access to documents, this representative of the STAN movement rejected - what a surprise - what a surprise. It is typical for the STAN movement: arrogance of power, spit in the face of the citizens who finance it. I would still like to mention one more thing, which is not so scandalous, but it illustrates some sort of arrogance of the political power of the STAN movement. And it is the Minister of Education, Mr Gazdík, who said that he forgot that he was the CEO of the company and that he would, of course, solve it immediately, because the course of business, co-operation, if you are an institution of any company, and the process of government functions is incompatible. And Mr. Gazdík forgot six months after the election that he was the CEO of some company. In case Mr. Gazdík forgot, he's at least... as an executive of the company has certain responsibilities, and it can also be an unintentional crime in the administration of Mr. Gazdík. But that just defines the whole sociality, or the social situation of this government, which is certain. Certain by holding all the state institutions in hand, even those forces, that nothing can happen to them, that they are okay, that they do not need to talk to the opposition, that everything they do is fine and gentlemen's, and that the debate with the citizens, with the opposition, is just a waste of time. I don't think there's anything more to say. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. And now Mr Feranec, who represents President Alena Schillerová, who is duly excused, is prepared with priority rights. And Minister Vít Rakušan will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say a few words as to why I think it would be appropriate to approve the agenda for the meeting, I will propose a resolution for this meeting. But before that, I too must pause over what Vice-President Kovářová said at the beginning of her speech. You five-wheelers ran and you said, "We will bring about a change, a change in circumstances, a change in politics." And I have to say, the change is a fact. I'm here for the second term, and I haven't noticed yet that the opposition is molded, who dares to convene an emergency meeting, waste time! I haven't seen that before. That's really a change. But it's up to you how you look at it. And now for the meeting program. I'll try to look at it a little differently. From my point of view, this isn't about Mr. Polčák or STAN at all. After this case, or let's call it pseudo-cause, it doesn't matter, it's a public perception that it's completely normal for a public person to enforce, lobby for the adoption of laws and then collect commissions. Unfortunately, this impression arose. And that The Chamber of Deputies understands with this kind of work that it is completely okay, that it is normal. I absolutely don't think so. And I don't think any of you think that this is a normal procedure. And I just want us to comment on this. I really don't want to deal with Mr. Polčák here. It's about the way the public looks at the House's meeting. And I am convinced that the House should retreat. The resolution, I will read it now, is basically simple: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that when adopting laws, Members are governed by the Constitution and by applicable legislation, and strongly rejects any attempt to obtain commissions or other financial performance for adopted laws. " This is a motion for a resolution. You might think it's a trivial thing, but I repeat, we should apply. And again, it's not really Mr. Polčák. Let this impression that this case has raised, let us declare our approach to the public. And I'm convinced it's in all our interests. I don't want it to be seen as some kind of political struggle. That is why I have tried to write this resolution politically. If you think it's too political, then modify it, we don't have a problem with that. It's about once and for all dealing with this case, the pseudo-cause, the unpleasantness, because it's gonna get behind us. And not approving the agenda, screaming at what we dare, wasting our time here, it's not gonna help, it's just gonna come back in the future. So I repeat, it is in the interests of all of us, the entire Chamber of Deputies, that we should somehow stand up to this today and deal with this matter. And if it is the adoption of a resolution that I have proposed or any other, we have no problem with that. We don't really have a problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, Minister Vít Rakušan will speak. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u13	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to keep the calm tone that President Okamura has kept, for which I thank him, it is not customary for him, neither is it with me, so I will try to repay him with the same coin. First, please start with the facts. The villages around Vrbětice received a million-dollar compensation, Stanislav Polčák and his colleagues - this was falsely mentioned in the speech by President Okamura - and his colleagues gave up their reward for their representation, Stanislav Polčák assumed political responsibility. Whether or not he was in conflict of interest is currently being dealt with by the Bar Association. And if anyone here presumes that a crime has been committed, the investigation doesn't lead to a speech in the House. The result is that someone is giving the police some incentive. Mr Okamura has spoken here many times in connection with the STAN movement about some kind of case like what the police are investigating. I don't know if he filed a criminal complaint, but no one questioned any of us about the funding of the STAN movement, we weren't invited anywhere to make an explanation or anything. The other thing Mr Okamura said - and I'm asking him to state the facts - is that I'm being investigated by the cologne police. The police have proposed to postpone this case. Do you know, through Madam President, who gave the criminal notice? The initiative Dropped the dog during the time of the covid crisis, at a time when this initiative did not like my appearance in the case of compulsory vaccination of certain groups of people, when we had demonstrations here in front of the house when we were discussing anything that had to do with pandemics and epidemics. The criminal report was investigated, and the police suggested we postpone it. Please mention the facts, cross this item off your list, through Madam President. So there is no case linked to my name, the Police of the Czech Republic. Already several inaccuracies during the first paragraph of Mr. Tomio Okamura's performance. You know, but there's a difference. We're dealing with our problems. We don't make excuses, we don't scream, we don't say it's a campaign and we never quit. We're not saying that this thing is a lie, that the media is sitting on us, that it's a huge campaign. That's what they did, and they still do as we see it, others do. We accept public criticism, we accept that there are media here as a control of various processes in society. And, yes, we're prepared to respond adequately at a time when such criticism makes sense and when there may be any suspicions, and I stress the word "suspection," of conflict of interest. There are politicians here, and they're still sitting in this House with a proven conflict of interest. And it didn't move them either. It didn't move them by an inch. So public criticism, media control, media criticism, we accept, we respond to it, and we assume responsibility. Which we have shown in solving each of the individual problems. Some of them were mentioned here by Mr Okamura. [[10.30 hours]] I just don't accept Mr Okamura's challenge, and I strongly ask him not to do what I have here or not to talk about it. In order for Mr Okamura to give me assignments, questions, and in advance he told me not to talk about other parties here, but only about Mr Polčák, and then you branch your performances into an incredible width and depth, and you tell me not to do it. Please, through Madam President, do not tell me what I can and must not speak of behind the speaker's counter in the Chamber of Deputies. It really isn't your place. And I know you're uncomfortable talking about some of your things, that it's uncomfortable the way you behaved as a political businessman to your Dawn movement, that you billed them money for PR services. You even worked Christmas Eve on New Year's Silvestr. This, through Madam President, is a political business, Mr Okamura, and it is very funny from your mouth to hear the sentences: the thief screams catch the thief. I really don't understand where you, the representatives of the ANO and the SPD, are taking some moral advantage with which the other parties and the movement will say how to deal with their cases. And we're dealing with it. Stanislav Polčák is not Vice-President of the STAN movement. Even after my recommendation, which came immediately, he brought political responsibility. I don't know which one of you deduced her that way. Checking the stoka case linked to Mr. Faltýnek, his notes in the diary, keep an eye on the subsidy, or the real owner of me. Will we also call an emergency meeting for this? Mrs. former Secretary Schillerová's Instagram account. Two million from the state budget for peacock photos, allegedly, according to the media. I don't have any other information. I don't abuse and over-informed myself to the police, but according to the media, police are also interested. Are we going to convene an emergency meeting for this case? We won't! And you know why? Because the time when the conflict of interest itself was a political issue, I'll never stop and so on, it's gone. Let the police deal with any offences and possible crimes independently, and let's not play it out here in the Chamber of Deputies. Today's case from the morning, for example, again on the List: CZK 50 million for companies connected with the holding, which was given by the Ministry of Minister Havlíček to compensate for the higher price of electricity, when the Deputy Minister was put in danger. You don't care? You, the same people who have all this on your hands and behind you, are going to tell us here how to solve the problem that the STAN movement has encountered? And again, the difference between us is that you're not dealing with it and you haven't moved it by an inch. We have dealt with every single case or situation associated with the STAN movement. Other things he says here, and a few reactions. So Vice-President Vildumetzová wonders that there is a representative of small mayors in the Czech Post? You, through Madam President, are wondering, in the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post, you, with your experience as mayor, are representatives of small mayors? The lady's name is Pavla Chadimová, and she's a non-scorer who has nothing to do with the STAN movement. My colleague, Fiala, is wondering if the Governor of Netolický is present? Through Madam President, President Fiala, do you suspect that the Social Democrat is my nomination? That I nominated a Social Democrat there? There are three positions on the Supervisory Board. One for representatives of larger cities, one for the regions and one for representatives of small villages, where the non-party is Pavla Chadimová, and Mr Netolický's nomination is the nomination of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, where they voted on it. If I'm not mistaken, let them tell us what the nomination looked like. I think she's been through some kind of vote. I don't know. I just got a name from the County Association. She chose Martin Netolický. I will certainly not castrate them, which the governor will be sent to the Supervisory Board. What are you even talking about? And Mr. Redl's meeting with Mr. Knap and all that? And that you didn't mention the date that it was long before I became Minister, that Jan Hamáček was still sitting at the Ministry, not Vít Rakušan, that is, the český Post itself was not under me at that time in any way. Nobody's gonna put that in here anymore. It's not gonna fit the information. It doesn't fit. And another thing, the Czech Post Supervisory Board. So touch your conscience. Look - well, I admit, not the SPD here, but the social democracies, the communists, yes - those party nominations you had on the Supervisory Board. We don't have them there now. We have real managers and three representatives of regional associations. On the contrary, the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post was cleared of all the political traders who sat there during the last parliamentary term and let the Czech Post enter the economic misery in which it finds itself now. Because it was a newsstand because those people didn't understand it and because they just went there for a good salary. And you're gonna blame us for anything on the Czech Post Peace Council? Did you scream in that last period when the Communists, the Social Democrats and the people of YES sat there? Did you yell? I don't think so. I didn't hear it here. And the Czech Post is an indebted institution with huge problems. We put in a number of high-quality managers. I can show you their resumes, their backgrounds, I can show you what they've done with their lives. Next thing. Vice-President Vildumetzová has again failed to give the facts correctly. Please show me the budget line in which, through Madam President, it would be written that the mayor's remuneration has been approved. The budget line is: the council's work and there are approximately CZK 1.2 million in it. As former mayor, I'm sure Vice-President Vildumetzová knows that this is an approved budget. No reward has been approved, and even in that budget, you won't find an item if you look at what it looks like, a reward to the mayor. The mayor's remuneration is a very specific act which must be approved by a special resolution for the council and may amount to a maximum of double the mayor's salary. It didn't happen, and nothing like that is even written in that budget, so please let's make the facts as precise as possible here! For the next one. The questions that President Okamura has here, his movement seems to be working differently. I don't know. I'm glad I don't know how it works from the inside, but it probably doesn't work democratically. I will forgive him for not knowing, as an anti-European party representative, that elections to the European Parliament are not in a year, as he repeatedly says, but that they are not until 2024. I understand the SPD doesn't care. I'm sure they have their reasons. And another one. I certainly - you asked for my opinion - will not be in favour of this as President for Mr Polčák to defend the mandate. But we don't work like those movements here that what the chairman says will happen. We have people who decide in the election. These elections are called primary elections. The person who thinks it's appropriate can join those elections, and either he gets that trust or he doesn't. I will not have my support in defending this mandate, Mr Polčák, but I cannot tell you in the democratic movement who will and will not be nominated, two years in advance. Sorry, it doesn't work that way in our country, and I'm so glad it doesn't work that way and it's never gonna work. The sum of the sum, Stanislav Polčák was not in conflict of interest under Czech and European law, but his error I really see, as I have repeatedly said here, ethical on that level, on the level that if someone as a politician promotes the adoption of the law, he should not have any benefit in any other role. And that's what we signed up for. And I said that on the first day as a reaction to your words here in the House. I wasn't running away, I wasn't hiding from it, I said it in an internal party discussion, I responded to it here in the Chamber of Deputies, no more, no more excuses, no more hiding. On the contrary, the way in which the STAN immediately assumed political responsibility, and Stanislav Polčák himself, is proof that we are aware that such matters must be dealt with quickly, effectively, so as not to burden the House of Deputies' negotiations so as not to burden the functioning of the government. [[10.40 hours]] It is a clear lie that Stanislav Polčák was to collect 8 million for enforcing the law, simply he did not, for proven and proven legal and legal services along with his colleagues. Even the senseless reward of 47,000 an hour published somewhere in the media does not correspond to the calculation and does not correspond to the fact that more legal representatives were involved in the whole case. But I repeat again what I said a little while ago, I don't think it's right. If I knew that Stanislav Polčák was providing legal advice, as well as colleagues from STAN's management, I had no idea how he would require a fee or how the fee from those municipalities would be proposed. The moment I found out, I thought it was a mistake. For a thing that should not have happened, and I insisted that a clear political responsibility be given here, which, of course, has happened. So let's put the sum of the facts in relation to me, please. I'm not being checked out by the police. And if Mr. Okamura here has yet to say: police abuse, conflict of interest - let's think about it a little longer. So somebody's gonna press charges on me, maybe a dog died. The police, because they have to, they have to, they're doing, they're checking, that's by the law. And I can't be Home Secretary at that point? For someone making a criminal complaint against me somewhere? Any one of you, because you don't like that I'm the Home Secretary, theoretically, you're gonna put a criminal report on me. You will write it well, the police will start looking into it, and at that moment we immediately assume that I am in conflict of interest because someone, some third person, has filed a criminal report against me, and so it is automatically assumed that even if I am not charged, even though I am not accused, unlike one of the Members here, I must not be the Minister of the Interior at that time. So whoever gives the criminal report is presuming at that point that I'm influencing the police. I'm not. And I won't influence her. I'll never influence her. I didn't care about my case until the moment I decided the case was postponed. I didn't ask anyone. There's no way I handled this case as a minister. I was given to the police without any advantage from any citizens in the Czech Republic. Explanation. I gave the explanation to the truth because in Cologne, the legal services the dog accused me of were reduced from 10 million to two. When you criticize someone, through Madam President, find out the substance of the matter and find out the facts. I hope that you will say on the microphone that you were wrong about this matter, you will cross it off the record because it is being examined by the police in no case, Mr Okamura, through Madam President, I am not, and that is simply a documented fact. So I would ask you very much, colleagues, to use the facts in this debate, which is going on at this time, and not to ask who will talk about what. I understand that Mr Okamura's political businessman does not want these words to be heard here, about how he charged for PR services and how he treated his former political parties' accounts, then he always had to start a new one. I didn't start anybody else because I'm glad to be at STAN as Chairman of the STAN. I'm glad we're dealing with his cases the way we're dealing with them. And we will definitely defend ourselves in front of the public, in front of the voters, react to what the media say and write, but we will certainly not defend ourselves in front of people who have their own butter on their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u14	Good morning, honourable Members. It is now registered in the debate by Vice-President Kovářová. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only specify some questions or answers or statements that have been made here in the previous speeches. First of all, I would like to say to President Fial, through Madam President, that the ownership of the politicians you claim does not want to show Mr Hlubuček, so that should be made publicly available. Unfortunately, the SPD and the ANO movement blocked the enforcement of the Third Reading Conflict of Interest Act during the last parliamentary term, when the registers were already closed and the Constitutional Court imposed on us a correction to the Chamber of Deputies and the Government by the end of 2020. Unfortunately, unfortunately, this amendment has been tabled, not by the government, you, the SPD and the YES movement, have blocked this. So don't be surprised, don't be surprised those registers are closed. First of all. Then I would like to respond to the remarks on the conflict of interests of the MEP. Each MEP - and here in this case it is MEP Polčák and his attorney - can conduct this advocacy in his state and must also state this in the European property return, which Mr Polčák does and is easily verifiable. It has its logic that MEPs, senators, MEPs, such as lawyers, doctors, scientists, university professors, perform this profession at their mandate, on the grounds that if they were not elected in the next parliamentary term, it would be very difficult for them to return to their fields. In short, the European Union makes this possible, the European Parliament, and I think there are a number of examples here in the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, and I consider this quite common, because a doctor must keep up with his field, lawyers too, university professors too. So it is only for the conflict of interest and whether the MEP can conduct an advocacy in the Czech Republic. For Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, through Madam President, let us just remind ourselves that after her inaction with regard to the law which allowed compensation to the municipalities, such a law was not prepared by the government. This law was tabled by a number of Members here in the House by a parliamentary proposal, when Mr Hamáček, Mr Vondráček, Mr Gazdík, was the first to be signed. In short, and to be clear, this law has been presented to Members. I would also like to comment on the lashing with regard to the Association of Local Authorities. Years ago, smaller municipalities and cities were fiscally discriminated against as regards the budgetary determination of taxes. It was significant and these smaller municipalities did not often have enough to operate. The mayors and mayors have warned about this for years, unfortunately the Union of Cities and Cities has not done anything about it, and therefore these smaller municipalities and cities have gathered in the Association of Local Authorities in order to be able to enforce them, because there have been more than 2 000 of them today, so that they can enforce this change in the budgetary determination of taxes in order to eliminate tax discrimination, while the Union of Cities and Municipalities has been opposed to such a decision for years. And I think mayors and mayors appreciate that there's been a correction, and it's also seen in those municipalities because one third of the money, when it's good, could be used for investment. So much for why the Association of Local Authorities was created as so-called, as mentioned here, the anti-organization of the Association of Local Authorities. [[10.50 hours]] President Tomio Okamura, through Madam President, said there was some information going around. And I'd like to read some information here that I think would be good for them to be around here, too. This concerns Mr Polčák's statement and information on how the matter was going, because it often makes me feel that the information you have is only one article, and that is not enough. We will therefore point out that the legal compensation services, the Member as a lawyer, agreed to do so, with representation in April 2021. At that time the municipalities had to apply their proposals at the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region. There was a threat that he would fail the deadline under the IZS Act. After discussing the mayor, Mr Polčák gave them a written proposal and stressed that he would work on the matter as an attorney with a method of evaluation of success fee. And since at that time he did not really know how much he was working on or working with his colleagues, what would be the appropriate procedure, they did not explicitly set a percentage of success on the matter. He also knew that he would be rewarded after the end of the legal service and that the matter would subsequently be settled by agreement. Mr Polčák also notes that he has declared that it will not be seen as a politician on matters. The municipalities agreed to this agreement and subsequently issued him full authority and provided supporting documents for the case. He started working on the case without any other invoices except the initial advance payments, which he subsequently did not issue. Following familiarisation with the evidence, he acknowledged that the matter was extremely complex and agreed to cooperate with other lawyers on this matter. Proposals made by municipalities pursuant to Act No. 239/2000 Coll., on the Integrated Rescue System, supplemented and prepared detailed documentation. They also carried out an analysis of legal possibilities for obtaining compensation, but no legal solution led to a simple objective for the municipalities, and it did not make it possible for citizens to be compensated. And what was the citizens' experience? All applications until then were rejected by the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region. At the beginning of June 2021, they considered in the discussion that the matter could be successful for municipalities and citizens thanks to the adoption of a special law. He and his colleagues worked up all the documents for the municipalities and calculated the individual proposals. And, as has already been said, the law has been proposed in the form that it has excluded persons who have long stayed in the place and felt the same harm as those who are entitled. It is therefore the citizens of the municipalities concerned with permanent residence in the reporting room, persons with actual residence, including foreigners. And these people in all municipalities are a qualified estimate of about 300. In the Senate, this problematic matter was revealed, but the mayors were - he remembers - appalled. If this proposal were to return to the House, it threatened to fall under the table, so they agreed that, given the significant risk, the law would be passed and sent to the President and consequently individual legal services for these so-called neglected persons will be provided through the municipalities and also on behalf of Mr Polčák and his colleagues. This means that the services provided and to be provided are of a different nature and have about three circuits. The first is the opening agreement, which was in April 2021, compensation to municipalities, the interest of municipalities in compensation for their citizens. The second heading, which is from September 2021, is other legal services, legal aid to neglected citizens. This is therefore the care of those who under the law did not belong to compensation, although they resided in the municipalities or have permanent residence in the reporting room. The third heading, which is from February 2022, is the administration of public procurement in the implementation of development projects for the compensation received. To sum up, this is the contract as the only reward for this comprehensive legal service, not as a commission for the law, as it is often imposed here. The services were to be provided with realistic expectations for two more years and settled with this one reward. The Hourly Reward would be much lower than it was presented in the News List. Only the first area of legal services was closed, the list of acts was only for this closed circuit and only those which fully correspond to the legal rules, in addition to the written documents drawn up, the preparation and consultation of the mayors of the official meetings which Polčák participated in with the mayors who requested his participation as their legal representative. Of course, a number of private negotiations and meetings do not include how they are pushed here. I wanted this information to be heard here, and it would also begin to circulate here in this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. President Okamura and Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová are now signed up with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly respond to what has been said here. In connection with the fact that we are dealing with an eight-million-dollar commission here for Vice-President STAN and MEP Stanislav Polčák for law enforcement, I find the scandalous statement by the President of the STAN movement and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, who said - I quote and remarked: The time when the conflict of interest is resolved is long gone. Well, that's an incredible statement, because the conflict of interest isn't over, and we're dealing with it right here with his Vice President. Next thing you know, as far as the desperate screams go, the Dawn movement. So once again, it's from 2014, I've been investigated by the police, brought back twice by the state's attorney, eight or even nine years ago, and nothing has happened, no lies and rumors have been confirmed. So that's really an incredible scream, and it's rather scandalous that the Home Secretary can even say it, who knows these facts very well. [[11.00 hours]] So the political-business project is the STAN movement. Respectfully, some of his members, so I don't talk about everyone, that's fair. So some of his members and chief executives have turned it into a business project. So that's one thing. The Vice-President of the House of Kovářová, through Madam President, has messed up a bit. It was the SPD co-chairman of the conflict of interest law. So we never voted against. That's probably what Vice-President Kovářová mistook for her when there may have been a vote on the pre-election of the law. If we remember, our priority at the end of the parliamentary term was the law to end the abuse of benefits inadaptable. Now I've consulted with my fellow Members at the MP's club, too, and if we remember, this was about someone wanting to assign the conflict of interest law, which we're the petitioners of course, so we always voted in favour when this was discussed. But then we had a priority when we had to choose what of it, the termination of the abuse inadaptable, because it would bring half a billion to the Treasury, and on the contrary, you all rejected it here. We were blocked by members of the current Pirates coalition, and at that time he was also a KDU-ČSL member of Čižinský. So, obviously, the Vice-President of the Kovářová has gotten mixed up. Plus, if we all remember here, and I just talked about it with some journalists recently, the one who was pushing to hide here, or not to be seen, or not to have to present herself, now I don't remember exactly, the property confessions of the local politicians, it was Mrs. Věra Kovářová who advocated it here for the STAN movement with the argument that no one would then report to the municipal policy. So whoever pushed this place - and we remember that, and even google that there was an article, it was also the media - who advocated the non-transparency of politicians with a sign that they would then not report to municipal politics, it was the Vice-President of the STAN Věra Kovářová movement. It's exactly the opposite. We as the SPD are co-chairmen of the conflict of interest law, and we wanted maximum transparency. So that was a bit of a mix-up for my colleague Věra Kovářová, so I wanted to put it right, as it was. Well, if I say, quite finally, because I basically think it's clear that we're not going to know anything here, then I've put three questions here, and I haven't gotten an answer to two of them. This means that I asked President Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement why he would not invite his colleague Stanislav Polčák to resign as MEP to establish political responsibility, because that would, of course, hurt financially. We didn't know the answer to that. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan also refused to ask his colleague Stanislav Polčák to present an overview of all the contracts he had and has received from public money for all the time he is a Member. Then we can't check in here, because Mr. Vít The Rakušan is blocking this place so that the public can check how many tens or hundreds of millions Stanislav Polčák has billed as part of his work to cities and municipalities with public money and for what. So that's actually the conclusion. I was basically expecting to know nothing here. Also, the chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement did not answer the question of what he was dealing with Jan Švejdar. This is a very important point and we still do not hear the answer to this question. Because if Mr Police President, who seems to have completely clean moral credit and all the information available, on the basis of a meeting with Mr Vít Rakušan - at that time he was not yet a minister, just before he was appointed - then he announces his resignation, then it would be really good to know - for A - why he invites a police president as an ordinary MP to his office. Secondly, it would be really good to know what he said to him that at that time police President Jan Švejdar had resigned on this basis. So we didn't find out again. So that's my conclusion from today's meeting. You just can't face it, and it's sad, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u18	Another registered and thus the last one is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I am speaking for the second time, and I am taking the liberty of responding to some of the statements and claims that have been made here to this point. I would like to begin by saying that my performance was very decent and very correct. I find it absolutely incredible that my colleague Věra Kovářová here, through Mrs President, will tell us that it is incredibly impertinent that we are putting Mr Stanislav Polčák on the line here. If anyone finds it incredibly impertinent that everyone is looking at us now, that laws are passed here, for which someone then accounts for money, it certainly does not seem to me that this does not belong in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. If you're trying to cover it up in some way and you're talking here that there are other cases and so on - through the political spectrum, of course, in opposition: do you even realize that we passed this law here? All of us Members during the previous term of office? And we approved him with good intentions to help those communities. And who passed this law on the government? Well, he was approved by the Yes and ČSSD movement, Vice-President Kovářová, if you say so today. The Minister of Finance found around CZK 400 million in the budget to compensate the municipalities. No one else has done it before. So don't tell me they didn't solve it. They figured it out. But they solved it with good intentions, and I think it's an interest for all of us Members to get the funds from the municipalities, get the citizens and go to the development of the municipalities, and not for the funds to go to someone who might even know the amount in quotation marks. Because I didn't get an answer at this point, so who determined why it was 310 million, why it wasn't 200 and so on. Because the press conference showed that it was Stanislav Polčák who came up with it, he designed it. And then you asked for a commission from that amount. I mean, we, as an YES movement - one of our fellow Members, have asked, under Law 106, for all the five communities concerned, if we could get the documents on which the commission was approved by Mr Polčák. No community has written back. There's only one of them who's already sent us the contract. I can only say that what was presented in the media fully agrees with what we have received from the same community, I will say it, Bohuslavice nad Vláří, where it is evident - and you still do not set it straight. For example, the municipality of Bohuslavice received compensation as a municipality of about 36 million, but those citizens received 35. Mr Polčák says here that for achieving this success, for achieving the financial amount, he is charged 3%, and the amount is divided here. That by 30 April he would pay 900,000 and then 31. 8. He'll pay for the rest. What's the worst part is that in the back - and that's what we still can't agree on and what you still don't understand - is a list of legal services. That's the side of the contract that the council was supposed to approve. What's in the attachment? Well, for example, on April 26, Mr. Polčák dealt with Mr. Governor. Or, for example, that on May 28th, Mr. Polčák dealt with Minister Hamáček and had a press conference. Or, for example, that on July 30, when the law was to be passed here in the Chamber of Deputies, he was at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. Then that he was at the Senate Committee meeting on 11 August, that he was at the meeting with the presidents of the Senate Clubs. On August 18th, the law was passed by the Senate. So he had 38 operations, and out of these 38 operations, he charged that 3% of the amount. [[11.10 hours]] You know what the worst part is? That this table or, respectively, this annex, all these municipalities have the same, all got it the same. So if there was a meeting with Mr. Hamáček, Mr. Polčák charged it for all five municipalities. And if it seems normal for anyone to charge for the 38 acts that are connected with us - I do not know how to keep explaining that if we do not approve the agenda of the meeting today and do not accept the resolution proposed by my colleague Milan Feranec here, through Madam President, we say at that moment that we agree with the procedure. We should strongly reject this, otherwise it will shed bad light on the entire Chamber of Deputies. And I don't know how I should explain this anymore, and I'm offering to all my coalition colleagues, I have a contract here under Law 106 - A teaching profession, I'm sorry, Minister, and I have to say that you can come and see that these things really are based on the truth. [[He's turning to the government benches for Minister Gazdik.]] Mr. Polčák added a list of the transactions he charged the funds for. [[shows the written documents to the plenary]] So, for example, he was dealing with my colleague, Mr Novák, from us, and he also has it in the chart that it was an act for which he wants the 3%. There. Then I would like to say that my colleague Věra Kovářová, through Madam President, still says that it is a lie that it was for those proven legal services. Well, I hope I've already shown in some way that we have proof from the same community, even though the mayor has written that they won't be discussing it at the D.A.'s office. And what surprised me a lot is that the power of attorney that all the municipalities have received from Mr Polčák, so I am convinced that this power of attorney must be approved by the municipal authority. [[shows the plenary material]] And I would expect Rakušan Interior Minister under supervision and control under the municipal law to check that all these resolutions and those powers were duly approved in the municipal authorities. [[shows again the written documents in plenary]] I'm very surprised that the power of attorney is signed, but there's no date. It's not. And we certainly know that if the power of attorney is signed, there must be a date. Then I would like to comment again on my colleague Věrka Kovářová's comments on the Association of Local Authorities. Madam President, I do not in any way blame the Association of Local Authorities. But if Mr. Stanislav Polčák has been the chairman of the Association of Local Authorities for several years, and at the same time has a law firm, I might not want to see how many activities he may have within his law firm at the Association of Local Authorities. It is no secret that each municipality, the city pays the contribution of the so-called participant, or the one paid by the Association of Local Authorities. This is not a small amount of money, which is then used for legal services, for example. And I think it's very unfair here to talk about the Union of Cities and Municipalities, because the Union of Cities and Municipalities is a great organization compared to the Association of Local Authorities. I do not question their importance, both of these organizations, but I think that the Union of Towns and Municipalities has also fought within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. And for example, now that we are having fun here at this point, that Mr. Polčák wanted to charge CZK 8 million for buying and enforcing the law, such a union of cities and municipalities, which was very much pushing for the compensation bonus to return to the municipalities roughly, I think it was a thousand - CZK 200,400, so I did not notice that the Union of cities and municipalities would come here to want any funding from it. Mr Polčák was really getting into a two-roller within the Chair of the Association of Local Authorities and into a two-roller yet a MEP and a lawyer. I don't understand how anyone can defend what happened on this counter. I don't get it at all. I don't understand how anyone can stand up here and say that it was okay when we all know that it wasn't okay at all, and that if it didn't come to light today, because it's already been passed in one of those councils, the council's gonna have to revisit it, and I'm asking Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan again, because he's in charge today: has there been a check in the various municipalities? Did the supervisory and control department go to those villages? Did he check the various resolutions? Has there been a violation of the municipal law? Has there been a violation of the municipal law? Well, when I see the Minister of the Interior speaking here, that he is OK about the remuneration of CZK 1.2 million, and he is making it easy for me to show him that it was only in the draft budget, then I made it clear in my speech, Minister, that you, too, came up with the fact that you also see that it is contrary to any law on municipalities. But I'd expect you, as Home Secretary, to come and say, "I've checked the whole thing out because it's part of my department." But in your own way, you still justify it here! So we're going to tell people, it's not possible! And I would expect from you as Home Secretary that there will be checks in all these municipalities, and there will be a clear message, because we don't know that today, we have to demand under Law 106, and under Law 106 we will learn that what was in those media is based on the truth. Now for the performance of Minister Vít Rakušan. Mr. Secretary, your performance, I don't know what I'd call it. [[Scream from the right side of the Chamber: Excellent.]] Excellent. In arrogance and arrogance, I suppose. I just feel like you're the Home Secretary. I honor it. But I think you're still one of us and you can't really afford everything. Again, I was being very polite and very correct. You're going to say at this point that you've accepted everything, that you've responded to everything. All right, let's remember that. When the case began on the first day, the media said, "Polčák won't take it, his colleagues will take it." And we're done. There's nothing more to talk about. And all of a sudden, because other things were coming out, and if the other stuff hadn't come out, then those colleagues would have taken it. That means that Stanislav Polčák would still take it because his colleagues work at Stanislav Polčák's law firm. Well, now I could say maybe the second thing as an example. Mr. Farský, he's going to college in America. And what did we learn? He will keep the Member's mandate and come to important meetings. Also, solved. And then it was only after a few weeks that Mr Jan Farský passed the mandate of a Member. [[11.20 hours]] I must say that your comment in the context of the fact that there is currently a representative of the Association of Local Authorities for small municipalities in the Czech Post in the Supervisory Board - I did not question the mayor and her nomination. I was merely pointing out that until now in the Czech Post, the representative - please let me finish - was not the Association of Local Authorities. And you know why? Because the Union of Towns and Communities, or at least I think so, has a representative of František Lukl, who is the chairman of the Union of Towns and Communities. And the Union of Towns and Municipalities has three chambers. Chamber of statutory cities, Chamber of cities and Chamber of municipalities. That means Mr. František Lukl represents all three chambers there! And I think that the Czech Post problem is both statutory cities and cities and municipalities. And now, for the first time, there will be a representative of the Association of Local Authorities, which means that it will be there in quotation marks, and it is probably not wrong, the majority of small municipalities. What I certainly don't like is that you're saying a statement - wait, I wrote it down - that the Czech Post came into what economic misery. Well, I'll be looking forward to the economic situation you bring her into. And above all, I would like to point out to you that you are saying that there was some representation of those people, so I would like to stress that the Ministry of the Interior had social democracy. And that when you say those people weren't good there, for example, Martin. Non-tolic was there in the previous years. I'm sure it's no secret to you that he was then removed by Mr. Hamáček, in quotation marks, and replaced by Martin Kuba, who then deliberately resigned, and now Martin Netolický returned there again at this moment. So I will certainly look forward to how it will be economically in the future with the Czech Post. I noticed yesterday that you managed to enforce the government in quotation marks, that therefore the overtime of police officers and firefighters under emergency conditions will be reimbursed. They'll be paid with rewards, but I think you're saying you're gonna give firemen and policemen a reward, but I don't think it's entirely based on the truth. And the fact that this isn't based on the truth is that you pushed 100 million crowns yesterday to reward policemen and firefighters. So I hope the Home Secretary knows he has 50,000 police officers in his condition, about, and 10,000 firefighters. So if I divide it by this number, it's going to cost me 1,600 kroner per cop and firefighter. So that's a really big reward for firemen and policemen. I'm sure you'll argue that not everyone gets it. Well, I made one more calculation, and that's that if I took about 300 kroner times the 150 hours they didn't get paid in that emergency state, that's going to cost me $60,000, that's going to be enough for 2,000 cops and firemen combined. So you know very well that the amount of CZK 100 million in quotes may be the first shot, but if you want to pay the fees to the police and firefighters, you're going to have to come up with a draft of a new budget, and the amount, I dare say, will be 30 times as high as the one you put on the government yesterday, which you immediately presented in the media, that the police and firefighters will get. They won't, there won't be enough funds, and you know that, and you took it from the Presidency at the moment. There. I don't know if I've forgotten anything else at this point. I think and again call on all Members in the Chamber of Deputies: Let us open and approve the agenda for today's meeting. It directly affects our Members. And let us approve the motion for a resolution tabled here by my colleague Milan Ferance and reject any efforts to obtain commissions or other fulfilment for obtaining laws, as was the case with Stanislav Polčák. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u20	Mr Feranec is now claiming to be the club of the ANO movement, and Mr Tomio Okamura is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the Minister Rakušan's speech. Now, I'm not gonna have to deal with all kinds of political issues, but there were two things that were said for me. And I'm glad that it said it really, that he also actually says that there is a mistake in what the conflict of interest was about bringing together the function of a paid lawyer and a politician. That's a mistake, no doubt. And he also somehow distanced himself from some commission and so on. None of us support that. In principle, that is what I propose in this resolution. Just to say that we are governed by the Constitution and laws and that we reject any effort to make a commission or other financial performance for the approval of laws. It's a simple thing. And I understand the members of the coalition. A lot of you think it was over the line. But coalition solidarity, cohesion comes first. I understand that, too. That is why I have actually offered a solution to apolitical, it really is not against anyone, just to say what I think is clear to everyone, as we are not here, we have here to represent the interests of the voters, everyone is of some opinion, and indeed the House is not supposed to be a vending machine for the laws where coins are thrown and some law falls out of it. I really tried to be apolitical. So, of course, you have the right to disapprove of the program. And that's what I'm gonna understand. But it's gonna drag on after you, and I don't think it's worth it. And maybe I could use the possibility of this case... with this simple statement, because no one could have a problem with it, it would be over. But the decision is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u22	Thank you. It is now the last logged in, and it is President Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, new information has now fallen out of Mrs Vildumetzová's mouth. So until now, we knew that Stanislav Polčák, Vice-President of STAN and MEP, charged 47 000 per hour for meetings with other parties in Parliament. Now, however, Mrs Vildumetzová here has presented the facts when it turns out that Mr Polčák charged this amount for the same meeting to all five municipalities at once. Does this mean that MEP Polčák - I have to take the calculator for this because they are already such a housenumer that I can no longer calculate it from my head - 5 times 47 000 - that he charged CZK 235 000 per hour for the same meetings in Parliament, the Senate and the House? Even for meetings with SPD MPs? as shown in the statement. Two hundred and thirty-five thousand crowns an hour of public money? Is he charged for lobbying the law, for lobbying the law of the MEP and Vice-President of the STAN movement? So this information I think should be heard here, and I would really like to ask a representative of the STAN movement to clarify this question. Because it's been 47,000 an hour to charge for the enforcement of the law, and then 8 million commission without the MP telling us in advance that if we vote for it, he's going to cash in, it's already aroused a very negative response in the public. But CZK 235,000 an hour? Because from what we've heard here, he's charged the same amount to all the municipalities at once for the same meetings. Then I think that it should really be clarified and that it is all the more so for Mr Stanislav Polčák to resign to his mandate as MEP, and I think that the chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement should really challenge him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u24	Therefore, I do not see any more minutes on the agenda. Mr. Chairman of the Stan Cogan movement is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u25	So, honourable President, fellow Members, I have been partially invited here, and it is not so important for me to comment on things. I'm definitely a man who likes stuff. That's why I'm not exactly the kind of politician who just coffees into everything. That's the kind of repetition as a cup of coffee, please, it's the privilege of other colleagues here in the House. I'd like to respond to some of the things that have fallen here. If our colleague, Chairman of the Okamura SPD, tells us here, and maybe he told me that silence is consent. That was 2,000 years ago, like for Rome. I don't know if it's historical at this time, but silence in our legislation is disapproval. So if he's told us about ten times here, I don't know if he's got this basic ignorance, that silence is dissent according to our legal order, and I'm telling him to understand it so he doesn't repeat it here again, because it's completely meaningless. [[President: Through the President.]] I repeat through the President that this is pointless. Don't say that again. And sadly, if he is calling for us to give him contracts, through the President, that he does not know the register of contracts. Public corporations are posting contracts on the register, so let them find it. Whether he finds the contracts with the municipalities or asks for a hundred-six. I mean, if those public entities have contracts with someone in the business, then it's possible to get enough of those contracts, so let's just find them there. Or isn't he capable of going into that public register? Doesn't he have an assistant who could basically find it for him if he can't find it himself? Or isn't he able to write the hundred-six? Other colleagues here are handling it. Unfortunately, he's been here for years in opposition, let's just say, like a protest group, and he can't do that. That's just sad. It's really sad he didn't notice. I'm really glad that this Honza Farský guy here, after all these years, pushed through the contract register that the other colleagues said yes to him. He's been working on this thing for a long time. If it was said that he actually went away, then Honza Farský has been gone for three months, resigned, but he still has more votes than Andrej Babiš. This Andrej Babiš isn't here, he's not doing anything. He just has his employees in the ANO association, and he's fine. He doesn't do anything here. Basically, he's got this vote against this MP who's not here anymore, so he's got less here when I think we look at the record. And they're still gonna push him around. If some things have been said here, they have been answered and I don't have to respond to them anymore. Of course, I can respond, through Madam President, to my colleague Vildumetzová. Does he feel like all the power of attorney in the community is signing? Well, I don't know if the City Council approves all the powers of attorney in Upper Slavkov, for example, regarding custody, than when a request for execution is signed, if it thinks that all this is decided by the City Council, it's wrong. She was working in Upper Slavkov, talking about the reward. That's exactly what she rigged up, messed up, a $1.2 million reward. The fact that it was a line in the budget and accused the mayor of some particular community, how immoral they are, how they may be committing some misdemeanor or crime, she didn't say, but she wanted to expose them to the resistance. It has to be said that it really follows up on her little lies. She told us here last time that children can't train in Karlovy Vary. That's right, nothing like that happened about the hockey hall, but it's just high-five here, some people are gonna blame themselves specifically, and that's what it's all about. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] Just any reward is under the law and here in the past was clearly rejected by a man who would take a reward that was not in accordance with the law. He doesn't have a seat at STAN, he just doesn't have a place like this if he took a reward illegally. They must always act according to the law. We in these villages probably know that there's just some item where there's rewards. How it is pumped during the year, it must always be a specific decision of the municipality. I really don't know that in this whole reward thing, they sent the co-worker here who, as I read somewhere, got some information that she was going through the press, that she was getting rewards through her secretary, in the order of 20,000 that she was giving herself in some way. Maybe he'll explain it to me, because if someone says something, then he should have - how do I put it? - some basic authority. He's like an untrustworthy witness. And no one believes that. I don't know if it's exactly her, but I'm sure she'll answer that question if it's the one she gave herself when she left as mayor, $100,000. She gave herself a gift to leave. And if there was a severance payment, that Upper Slavkov guy really sucked it out of a decent package. Maybe he'll talk to us about it, too. If she attacked any colleagues in Moravia here at the time, where the decision didn't even end up, and maybe the council made an item out of which, but when she decides to draw it, we can judge how it was. Well, it seems a little hypocritical to me. I'm gonna answer the interpellation thing, too. Even though I wasn't here last time, you, as opposition, have called an emergency meeting. The special meeting must be in ten days. What are you wondering is that an emergency meeting is in effect being convened? Yes, today and here we'll discuss it. We don't know how long it can be. Or do you feel like these extraordinary meetings are going to be put into a proper run? [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] Let's just not be ridiculous if there's words out here that it's unconstitutional. If it's not a meeting day, which it isn't, the interpelations aren't coming out, they're just not. And I have to say, I wasn't here, but you were the other ones. You were the other kofers. When she was 25. 4. 2019 a meeting was convened on the basis of a report by the SAO, which criticised the government, so ended 13.23. So what? There weren't any interpelations. So what do you want to tell us? It's like the same thing. That's a very funny situation from you. I think today's special meeting showed what was expected. It's basically just a political theater with fake actors. She's useless because that thing's already been solved. I understand my colleague Feranc, and I must say that the contribution was probably the most sensual, and we actually agree with the resolution. But are we supposed to agree here and re-vote the things that are in the constitution? We, as members of the STAN and the coalition, simply proceed under the Constitution and consider it unnecessary to vote on what is in the Constitution. We can pull things out. It's obvious we're going basically right. And it was said here that Stanislav Polčák, and I will also comment on him, responded to the request of the villages affected by the explosions in Vrbětice. He did a lot of skilled work for the municipalities and their residents, helped them at a time when there was a threat of limitation of damages, and now he faced the issue. To put an end to the speculation that there was no conflict of interest in this representation, he would rather give up all the financial rewards and give up his coworkers as well. The fact that there were a lot more of these steps, so only when a colleague of Okamura here told us that he had met him at least three times, so it's clear that there was a lot of political work, but there was a lot of legal work. A lot of the legal work isn't recorded in the specific statements. It just is. I think it's meant to be reviewed by another body. [[11.40 hours]] And I ask, what, then, did today's accusers do after the bombings for the injured? Anyway. They just left the damaged without help. They just didn't do anything. They didn't care. And when someone came up with a proposal, they helped solve the matter, they could only do it by suing for damages, and they had to go to the courts. The fact that a political agreement was made is great. Finally, there was a political agreement. Seven years later, it didn't help, and it didn't do anything. And that a political agreement was made, it's fine. I would like to thank everyone who voted in favour. But if it didn't happen, they'd have to proceed with claims for damages. And the legal representation was usually there. I would certainly like to thank everyone for finally agreeing to the political representation and that in the end the compensation was done as if by the state and it could not be done by, say, private lawsuits. Stanislav Polčák at the same time, given that there were mere doubts that there were mere doubts as to where the line between the legal service and the political conduct was, whether his progress was morally correct, he also assumed political responsibility and resigned as Vice-President. But if he is now criticized by people who have never been capable of such self - reflections, I consider this to be an example of hypocrisy. I think morality, that's a word you don't know at all. If here, through Madam President, Mr Okamura says that nothing has happened in his case, because the police have examined it... [[Tomio Okamura responds from the scene.]] Yes, yes, it wasn't a crime. But that doesn't mean that his actions at Dawn weren't grossly immoral and that they were very negative. Actually, it's all gonna cost me my conscience. Stanislav Polčák has it. I'm asking, how many consciences do those who have performed here today, even for ANO, who for years have prevented their boss Andrej Babiš's body from being torn apart, who is accused of subsidy fraud? Those who destroyed the reputation of our state, from which they had made only a servant of Babišův's interests, covered his cheating on a hundred million toast bread and covered his manipulation of tax machines with advertising on the Capi nest for incredible over 270 million? Advertisements on the Cap's Nest, for 270 million, that's really strong. And they cover him and cover him in other crooks. They're the classic servants of their master. [[Noise in the hall.]] Today, for example, there was information that Deputy Minister Muřický refused 44.4 million compensation for Andrej Babiš's companies for conflict of interest last summer and even after the election. Poor people - Synthesia, Precheza, DEZA, Lovochemie. It was Havlíček who signed his boss right away. Just what's at home counts. That's privatization of the state. And we're gonna have a conflict of interest law here tomorrow. Well, let's see what it looks like here, how it's gonna behave YES and SPD, how they're gonna try to reconstruct or not. Maybe they'll just reconstruct the program. We'll see. We've got a conflict of interest that's pushing the conflict of interest. And we'll see how it goes tomorrow. I will be very happy to see that the conflict of interest will be raised as quickly as possible, that we will expand it as far as possible and that the conflict of interest will be adopted very quickly. Because I see that's definitely our mutual interest. And if there was actually a conscience here, through the President, Tomio Okamura, who, according to his party colleagues from Dawn, tunneled the state contribution, signed his own invoices for consulting services to his own movement, even for the activities of Christmas Day and New Year's Eve, he simply worked very hard. Worked how? For what? You're welcome! Well, how much is it? Last time I checked, a colleague dropped $6,000 an hour. That may not be criminal, but it's totally immoral. And if here in this title is the political business that the petitioners have imprinted in that name, then I think that political business has been a hallmark from the very beginning, not a sign, simply the essence of the ANO and the SPD movement. And it's really funny that they're objecting here. And if he's throwing us here today, he's basically talking about who's actually innocent, if we could just say the old one who's innocent, let him throw a rock here with a word, I don't think a lot of people who spoke for the opposition here would even say a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u26	Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová is now claiming priority rights. And let me just warn President Fiala that we are not in the debate, they are not factual, but you have priority rights, which is why I am assigning you as the next party with priority rights. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u27	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me respond to three things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u28	I'll ask my colleagues for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u29	I know that STAN's speech by the President of the Parliamentary Club must have aroused great reactions. He also woke them up in me, above all, that I would assume that the mayor - you are the mayor, through Madam President - knows that they do not publish contracts in the register of contracts of a small municipality. [[A round of applause from the YES and SPD benches.]] Because that's how it's approved under the contract register law. That means if you look for those contracts today, they're not in the contract register. And you can only ask under Law No. 106 what we have done, and we have received a covenant. And since the Vlachovice contract has already been published in the media, so when we compare it with the municipality of Bohuslavice, we see that the job report was the same for all municipalities. Second reaction. I would never expect you to come here, Mr President, through Madam President, and here you will practically spit on everyone that they have done everything wrong, and try in their own way to cover up this matter, and I keep repeating the matter that concerns Members, because Members have passed this law here. And it gives us a glimpse that laws are passed here, for which Mr. Polčák then charged CZK 8 million. When they were interpelling, Minister Vít Rakušan said in response to the interpelling, so let's go, let's go and pass the lobbying bill. I was wondering at that moment, do I even hear right? We had an opposition window 14 days ago. What was on the agenda? Lobby Act. And how did that turn out? He's been rejected. So do we want a lobbying bill or don't we want a lobbying bill? Then why didn't we approve it in the opposition window? I'm asking. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Now, with that winter stadium in the Karlovy Vary Region, when you opened it. It came out with Mrs. Slonková today that I wasn't telling the truth, I think someone was talking to Mrs. Slonková. I really regret the reaction that I am in Václav Moravec's questions within the declared emergency state and extended to 58 days when it is said to the public that this emergency situation does not affect citizens, so I set an example of the Karlovy Vary Region, when I said that I was not saying that the decision was right or wrong, but that I was saying what had happened. Well, what happened? It happened that the captain of STAN issued an order and removed the winter stadium as the only one in the Czech Republic to serve as a regional assistance centre. And those citizens, and I pointed out, who were looking at me, so they didn't have a problem with the help, they didn't have a problem with the fact that they shouldn't have priority humanitarian aid, but they had a problem with the fact that there was another solution, because we in the Karlovy Vary Region have a Karlovy Vary airport that was flying planes from the Russian Federation, which is now completely empty. And the South Bohemian Region has a regional assistance centre at the airport. So Martin Kuba, South Bohemia County can have it at the airport, and the Karlovy Vary Region can't. But - and it doesn't say anywhere - what I said - that, at the same time, the second variant they called the citizens of the Karlovy Vary Region was that it could have been at the Thermal State Hotel. [[11.50 hours]] After all, the Thermal State Hotel has a huge hall where tens of thousands of people will pass at the International Film Festival. So if they can use the Congress Centre in Prague, the Thermal Hotel could be used in the Karlovy Vary Region. And if it says today that it's been transferred to the training hall, then somebody go ask those parents and those people. No one questioned the help, but everyone questioned the possibility of using it in a different way. I'm not going to point out that a lot of fans were pissed off, that they could finally go cheer, because the hall in the Karlovy Vary Region is a hall that serves sport-cultural purposes. And a paradox like that, and I can't forgive myself for the fact that Ex-Prime Minister Kulhánek was the one who didn't want the hall to be in the Karlovy Vary region at all, and he sued for it, it cost the city of Karlovy Vary a lot of money. Well, I don't know how we'd figure it out right now if the hall didn't stand there. So it's unfair when these things are said. And I think and I suppose the Home Secretary listened very carefully to me when I was talking about not saying it was right or wrong, but that I was saying it as an example of those citizens, as they perceived in the Karlovy Vary Region. And it's clear that whoever didn't go, who wasn't touched, wasn't angry. Angry were those people who were directly touched that they couldn't go to the game, training, and other things that couldn't be done there for that reason. And I stress again - and they said that there was another way to solve it. Well, the last one. Mr. Mayor, when you mentioned here that I was mayor of Horní Slavkov, I hope you know that I was leaving the mayor of Horní Slavkov because I had become such an unpleasant situation that I was persecuted by one citizen. And because I suffered from it, and the representatives suffered from it, I just decided to leave the mayor's office. At the last council, which was very emotional, without knowing it, the representatives offered me this reward along with the price of the town of Horní Slavkova. You can go to Horní Slavkova or see how today, when elections are needed... For me, Upper Slavkov will always be a heart thing, I think, if this thing weren't, then maybe I'm still mayor of Upper Slavkov. And I would just like to say to you that, of course, when I was supposed to run for Governor of the Karlovy Vary Region, it hovered that the reward was not paid in accordance with the Municipalities Act, when the Ministry of Interior stated that it had been paid in accordance with the Municipalities Act. That's what I'd like to tell you, because that's what the D.O.D. dealt with. At the same time, because a number of mayors were getting into this very unpleasant situation, because there were situations that maybe the mayor was mayor of thirty years, even twenty years, and it was the last council and those representatives wanted to approve his reward and it didn't work, it had to be properly justified. And then it was stated whether or not it was a justification. My colleague here, Mr Mayor Adamec, certainly knows, I apologise, through Madam President. So that's why the move has also been made that the mayors today are entitled not to 12 rewards, but to 14 rewards, and those two have to approve the council, but they don't have to state exactly the reason in the quotes. So I think what you've done here at the moment, I can't really figure it out. I think you've accused everyone you could. And I think your performance really made me feel really embarrassed. And I think I'm sorry you should prepare it better next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u30	Mr. President of the SPD Radim Fiala movement is now with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor. I, very briefly, to the President of the STAN club, Josef Cogan, through Madam President. I'm embarrassed about your speech, too. I think there are embarrassed audiences who might see it on the Internet or somewhere. But I didn't miss one important thing. You are another of the speakers of the STAN movement who approved basically what Mr Polčák did. You approve of the business between politics and business, you approve of the conspiracy of these two functions, you don't think there's anything wrong with it, that someone lobbies for the law, and then they bill millions of dollars for it. And before you, it was Mrs. Kovářová, now it was you, Mr. Rakušan. I feel, I would understand if you didn't comment on it or if you were taking a detour. But just to approve a thing that I consider to be a huge decline in political culture, to the edge of the law, maybe to the edge of the law, is a public disaster. And I just hope those people saw it, heard it, or read it somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u32	I don't see another logged in yet, but my apologies have arrived. Minister Pavel Blažek apologises for the whole day for working reasons, Mrs Iveta Štefanová also apologizes from 11.50 to the end of the day for working reasons. If no one else checks in... Mr. Chairman of the Stan Cogan movement is still reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u33	I'm not gonna put any more pressure on this situation. It's basically just two little mentions. I didn't talk about contracts with my colleague, I said a hundred hundred and six, and I said that my colleague Vildumetzová was doing the right thing when she used the hundred and six. [[unintelligible]] Well, it's just a little technical. And I didn't say I approve of the procedure. We have said that we perceive that my colleague Polčák has basically taken action, and I have not said once that I have approved any procedure, some exchange of money for the law. I didn't say that at all. And I totally disagree with that. And we never supported this. We just said that there was, like, a hard line, where the law firm is and where the politics is. On top of that, he brought responsibility by giving up the reward and, on the other hand, giving up the Vice-Presidentship. And I don't want to start this thing, it's gotten really hot in here right now. So to calm things down a little bit, I'd like to ask for a 30-minute break at the STAN club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u34	Yes, I'm registering a request from the chairman of the STAN Club for a break. Since it's 11:58, we should meet at 12:28.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-07-ps2021-018-01-000-000.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good noon, it is 12:28 p.m., the time until which our negotiations have been suspended. We are still in the phase of the 18th meeting. I am not yet seeing any other candidate who would like to speak before the vote on the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies before the vote on the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, or we have no choice but to vote on the entire proposal for the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Yes, I'm registering an application for check-out, so I'm gonna have to unsubscribe all of you and ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. Yes, Minister of Finance Stanjura will vote with replacement card number 27. Because I see that the number of entries has slowly stabilized, I repeat again for those who have reached the last minute that the vote is before us at the moment. We will vote on the whole proposal for the 18th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. So I will take the liberty of taking the vote and asking you to raise your hand if you vote in favour and press the button. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 150 Members were voted in favour, 70 voted in favour, 79. [[on board 158]] The motion was denied. The agenda has not been approved. And then I'm done with the 18th meeting. And let me remind you that the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue tomorrow, which is Friday, April 8th, at 9 o'clock. Until then, have a nice day.
