ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards, or tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I'll check you out and ask you to sign in again. I hereby declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence at the hearing: Jan Bauer - the whole day for working reasons, Roman Bělor within 17 hours for working reasons, Jan Berki until 14.30 for working reasons, Jan Bureš - the whole day for Šafránková reasons, Jiří Carbol - the whole day for Wenzl reasons, Milan Feranec within 17 hours for health reasons, Josef Flek within 16 hours for working reasons, Tomáš Helebrant - the whole day for Robert reasons, Jiří Horák - the whole day for foreign travel Karel, Marie Smetana - the whole day for medical Richterová, Tomáš Kohoutek - the whole day for medical Tureček, Martin Kolovratník from 19 to 23.45 for family reasons, Jan Kubík - the whole day for medical reasons, Jarmila Levko - the whole day for working day for international reasons, Lubomír Metnar - the whole day for medical reasons, Jana Pastuchová - the whole day for family reasons, Lucie Potůčková - the whole day for family Wenzl - the whole medical Richter, the whole day for medical reasons, Jan Richán, the whole of the whole of the whole David day, the whole of the Šimek of the whole working day of the whole working day of the whole working day, the whole of the day of the whole of the day of the whole working day of the working day of the whole of the working day of the Stržínek day of the working day of the case of the case of the case of the case of the situation. From the members of the government they apologize: Minister Martin Baxa until 17.30 for work reasons, Minister Mikuláš Bek - the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Pavel Blažek - the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Jana Černochová until 17 hours for work reasons, Minister Petr Gazdík from 16 to 17 hours for work reasons, Minister Jan Lipavskýý until 18 hours for work reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed: I. We propose to exclude paragraphs 1 and 74 of the 19th meeting, House press 55 - about limiting the impact of plastic products, the law at second and third reading. II. We propose the following procedure this week: 1. Today, May 10, open negotiations points from the block of laws, first reading, recalling that at the 18th hour we have a firmly listed point 110 - A strategy for managing the refugee wave. 2. Tomorrow, Wednesday, May 11th, we propose a discussion of the points in the following order: 78, House press 176, on excise duties, law at third reading; 6, House press 67, about Antarctica, law - first reading; 12, House printing 150, on the entry and import of certain cultural goods - first reading; 14, Parliamentary press 163, on surveying, the law - first reading. Next we would continue points from the block laws - first reading. 3. On Thursday, May 12, we propose to open negotiations at 9 o'clock because there are no written interpelations, and discuss points in the following order: 66, House press 91, European Telecommunications Satellite Organization, contract - second reading; 67, House Press 92, Act of the World Postal Union, Treaty - Second Reading; 71, House printing 194, Agency for the European Global Navigation Satellite System, first reading contract; 72, House press 200, on extradition between the Czech Republic and Australia, contract - first reading; 70, House press 157, on social security between the Czech Republic and Brazil, treaty - first reading. Next, we would continue the points from the block of the law of first reading. 4. On Friday, May 13th, we propose to discuss the points... [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask you, coworkers and colleagues, to keep you quiet so I don't have to yell at you. On Friday 13 May we propose to discuss the points in the following order: 75, House press 58, road transport, law - third reading; 76, House press 76, on roads, law - third reading. We would eventually continue with other points from the block of laws - third reading only if they were not discussed on Wednesday, and then the points from the block of laws - first reading. I would also like to remind you that on Thursday, May 12, at 18.15 p.m., the 23rd meeting will begin. In conclusion, I have one piece of information. Since paragraph 15, House printing 166, public health insurance premium, first reading, has already been discussed at another meeting, please do not apply it. There is no need to vote on this anymore. With a replacement card 31, Mr Kolovratník will be voting today. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. We shall therefore now proceed to the draft agenda. I am registering several priority rights on the agenda here. First is President Tomio Okamura, then Radim Fiala, then Aleš Juchelka, Radek Vondráček, Marek Benda and President Schillerová. I will therefore now request the speech of President Tomio Okamura with priority rights on the agenda. [[Strong noise in the hall, Members discussing.]] Colleagues, colleagues, you who still have a need to discuss, I will ask you to take a stand in order to understand what proposals will be read here so that I can then vote on them. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose an item on the agenda of the House of Deputies entitled The Government does not address overpriced energy. Petr Fiala's government refuses to deal with overpriced energy and does absolutely nothing for Czech citizens. The so-called "demoblock" approach is completely antisocial and shameful. Members of the government coalition of SPOL, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates and STAN, refused to discuss the opposition's proposals to reduce energy and fuel prices for citizens again at the extraordinary meeting of the House last week. They did not even allow an open parliamentary debate on these issues, in which concrete proposals and arguments were made that the SPD wanted to put forward on this matter. And, of course, the government itself does not have any alternative proposals and does not submit them. [[14.10 hours]] At this meeting, on the basis of the request of the opposition, it was intended to discuss, inter alia, the reduction of value added tax on electricity, gas, petrol and diesel, the limitation of the support of so-called solar barons from public money and the use of part of the proceeds from the sale of emission allowances to help households. Due to the position of members of the Fialův Government Coalition, the Czech Republic will continue to have one of the highest energy and fuel prices throughout Europe. Yet, most European governments help their citizens in these areas, for example, by reducing energy and fuel added taxes or by so-called austere prices of these commodities. In this way, it helps its citizens - unlike the Czech Republic, from the government of the Czech Republic - so it helps as proposed by the SPD, such as France, to help its citizens Germany, Croatia, Belgium, Spain, Denmark, Poland, Hungary, Italy, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, Portugal, Cyprus, Estonia or Ireland. But the government of Petr Fiala from ODS does absolutely nothing for Czech citizens, even in direct comparison with other European countries. Its approach, Petr Fiala's government, is completely antisocial and shameful compared to the rest of Europe. By doing so, the government continues to lose public support and should resign. This government is also free of charge, because due to Prime Minister Fiala's inability to deal with price increases every month, citizens pay overpriced bills, overpriced food, overpriced energy bills, and housing is also getting expensive. The SPD movement, of course, can no longer look at this, and we just don't talk, we present concrete solutions and bills. The SPD movement will introduce into the legislative process in the House a law that guarantees cheaper electricity for Czech citizens and companies. We know how to end the energy overpriced. The SPD's movement responds to the draconianly rising electricity prices and government inaction by drawing up a bill that we will submit here to the House and the government. The objective of this SPD Act is that electricity suppliers have an obligation to supply electricity to consumers with lower income only at a price corresponding to its cost of production within the so-called social tariff, or at a price determined by a government regulation. The draft law from the SPD pen firmly defines the obligation of persons representing the State in the bodies of energy companies with state ownership, such as CEZ, and their interest in defending the interests of the state, including the main objectives of the state's energy policy and in accordance with the care of a proper economy. In short, and in layman's terms: we want them to export to the EU up to energy surpluses, not as we do today, when we produce electricity cheaply, and instead of being able to buy it directly by citizens and our businesses, companies, we first export it to the Western European Stock Exchange here à la European Union, where it will cost us up to 4,000 percent, you hear it well, and the expensive energy where the Němec are overpaying us on the stock exchange, the originally cheap energy of our own, expensive for the EU, we are expensively buying it back. A crazy system that tolerates Petr Fiala's government here. It's accurate. Well, even Andrej Babiš tolerated it. But we're a patriotic party, and we're saying first, first of all, by law, let the cheaply produced energy be filled with the needs of our citizens and our companies, and until the surpluses are exported to the stock market, let them be sold abroad. So that's the principle of our proposal. Our bill also sets out the instruments of state energy policy, which are, first of all, the obligation of electricity suppliers with the state's equity to supply electricity preferably and to direct distributors in the territory of the Czech Republic at least in the quantity foreseen for consumers, at a price which does not contain disproportionate profits by the corporation. In this way, its sale to the foreign market and re-sale to the Czech Republic will be omitted at a higher price or price creation by commodity exchange abroad. In our view, only excess energy should be exported abroad. Unlike the current incompetent and inactive government of Prime Minister Petr Fiala, the SPD movement has a specific solution to help citizens at risk of high energy prices, all citizens of the Czech Republic and all Czech companies. So this law is being passed by us, here in quotes in a few days, we'll see what the government's position is. We can predict this position, of course, because the government will either have a neutral opinion or a negative opinion - I am saying this now, and it will continue to apply that this toothless government of Petr Fiala, which is free of charge to all citizens of the Czech Republic, is drawing money at the expense of the Němec and, at the expense of the European Union, is pulling money out of our citizens' wallets, so citizens will continue to pay overpriced energy for this government. But we have proposals here, we're a party that doesn't promise. You promised change, Petr Fiala's government, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, when he wasn't Prime Minister, I was in those pre-election debates, so he said the five-calice was going to change. Well, some people believed that because Petr Fiala forgot to say that he meant a change for the worse, and that's the problem. So I'll do it again. I propose the first point - and we have a concrete solution here from the law, a concrete solution, where we can make electricity cheaper for citizens. It's logical, it's clear, it's well legalized. [[He's showing the paper.]] And now let's see if Petr Fiala's government really wants to lower the electricity - that you're toothless, we already know that, because you've already had a majority in the House for six months, and nothing. Compared to all the countries I have appointed here, Czech citizens pay one of the most expensive energy prices and so on. It's horrible, horrible where your government has led it. And let me just point out that 30% of citizens, according to the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences, are in financial... Thirty percent of households are in financial trouble, and 40 percent have increased in your government the number of new executions, and you don't care, you don't give a damn. Once again, I propose that the Government does not address overpriced energy, and I propose that as the first item in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today, because the problem is really big and the government does not give a shit. You guys here preferred to propose a correspondence election last week, that's your priority, to change the electoral law so, because you're worried that your preferences are falling, which we saw last weekend, the Kantar survey on Czech Television, when even three of the five government parties are below or below 5%, which... and even the president of the party who has 3% preference is the chair of the Chamber of Deputies - Mrs Pekarová Adamová, is one of the top three constitutional officials, it hasn't been here yet, it hasn't been here. [[With laughter.]] But that's your business. On the contrary, we wish Mrs Pekarová to continue her public statements, that is our wish, because this, of course, helps us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u3	On the agenda, please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u4	What else am I talking about? I just didn't get it. I don't get it, I'm saying that because you're not dealing with energy, your preferences are falling, because I've been talking about the energy point all along because you're not dealing with it, so it's not on the agenda? Or may I not combine your falling preferences in my proposal with the fact that you refuse to help people with energy prices?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u5	You're proposing a new point, I've noted it. Please continue to justify the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u6	That would be a bit much, wouldn't it, Mr. Vice-President? Don't be mad at me, but I'm putting it in a wider frame of mind, that's why there's a fall in preferences, so it's not out of the program. [[With laughter.]] I know you don't like it, because you guys are under the 5% as folks, but I haven't even been able to name you yet, and I wasn't planning on it right now, I have to say, so here's the deal. I just wanted to say, but we know how fickle it is, maybe someday the SPD will be in that situation again, so I don't want to discuss it any more, it can happen to anyone here. We know how fickle it really is. I'm not going to talk about it here. So that's like point one. [[14.20 hours]] Now I have item number 2, and this is a point called - and I would propose this as the second point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - financing the reconstruction of Ukraine is the name - because the European Commission has published that it is about to establish a solidarity fund from which it intends to finance the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine. According to Bloomberg, the European Commission has already made it clear to Member States that most of the long-term costs will be borne by EU Member States, including the Czech Republic. I can say for myself that the SPD is refusing Czech citizens to finance the reconstruction of Ukraine from their taxes, which the Oligarchs are driving and robbing, and which is at the top of the list of corruption. Most of all, the problem is why I want to place this point, that I already called you to do it last week. Why don't you inform the public about this? Why does Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Foreign Minister - this is Mr viditelný, Lipavský - not come before the Chamber of Deputies and such a crucial thing that will indebt the Czech Republic for decades and which I am convinced that a large number of citizens of the Czech Republic disagree, why are you hiding it? Why are you hiding this information? That is why I want to include it as an extraordinary point of financing the reconstruction of Ukraine, so that government officials here can justify (a) why they are hiding it and, secondly, why they agree to it. Why don't they say no? Since the European Commission, as far as we know, is now working on a mechanism that should cover Ukraine's long-term needs, but from the money of the Member States of the European Union. This instrument, which is now being invented by the European Commission, is said to be like a fund to support the economy affected by pandemics, for which the European 27 has borrowed hundreds of billions of euro in commercial banks in total, thereby further indebting the Member States, including the Czech Republic. This new so-called Ukrainian fund should serve to finance investments and reforms approved by the government in Kiev. This means the government, where President Zelenskyj himself - even a few months before the war, was an article on the News List - avoids paying taxes in Ukraine. He is on the list of Pandora Papers, and the company has registered, as well as his wife - he has said in various ways to his partners in tax havens - so the Czech Republic is supposed to spend money there, into a corrupt country, a proven corrupt country, which is what the European Court of Auditors said, which is - last year - an advisory body of the European Union, that billions of euros were lost from helping Ukraine, because of corruption, and that it has benefited not from the Ukrajinec, but from oligarchs and corruption. I'm quoting directly from the report. So in a corrupt country like this, you want to give money to the government for debt, money to the Czech Republic? When people, 30 percent of households, are in trouble and the number of executions rising? So you, instead of the money, if there is some money, but it's supposed to be in debt again, why don't you help Czech citizens? And more importantly, why don't you say anything about it? As it seems, this issue will probably be one of the priorities for the Czech Presidency in the European Union in the second half of this year. However, the reforms that have been made so far, as we know already, have not led to the development of Ukraine and the improvement of the situation of its people, but have benefited the oligarchs, foreign groups and general corruption. The SPD movement clearly rejects these proposals and considerations by the European Commission and the Government of the Czech Republic, by the Purple Government. Already, chronic ubiquitous corruption and a very weak level of rule of law have been associated with prewar Ukraine, which could prevent theft. We therefore see no reason for the European Union to take further loans and finance billions of euros, other loans for which the Czech Republic would also say, that is, our citizens. So we see no reason why the European Union, including the Czech Republic, should take additional loans and finance billions of euros to rebuild the country that the oligarchs manage and rob. We need to invest primarily in our Republic. That's the SPD's opinion. In this context, that also concerns Ukraine, I would like to call on the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan in advance, because you have included here the point of the Migration Crisis or the Migration Strategy on purpose for up to 18 hours, so that the attention of journalists is reduced, because of course the evening news will already be filmed, so as to avoid media attention again. This is how you're doing it with our special meetings. This is what you do on purpose, your government coalition, you're such political con men. You always give our special meeting, you put on Thursday at 18 o'clock, so that the journalists will be gone again, even until 18.15, so even with 15 minutes, even later, so that the journalists will be gone, so that the news is already on record, and that your inactivity and the problems that are causing the citizens as little as possible in the media. That's how you do it, but we know it. We see this, this politically fraudulent act of yours. You just can't stand up to us, opposition. I have repeatedly called on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to join me in the debate. So I included President Babiš in this, with permission, not with me, but with me and Babiš, to discuss Fiala. We're just two opposition parties here. Why is he scared? Why is Prime Minister Fiala afraid to come into the debate with us? I'm here to challenge him publicly again. There are only two opposition parties here, and I think that they should stand up as Prime Minister to the presidents of two opposition parties live on television. Why is he scared? I mean, it's six months, and I haven't had a debate with him yet. That's absolutely unbelievable. He's no hero. If he had the courage, he'd face us to face with the debate, but he's scared. That's all. It would be a very nice debate, certainly with high ratings: Fiala, Babiš, Okamura. And I'm not the spokesperson for the YES movement here, but we're just two opposition parties here, so I'm allowed to include it in that list, too, because there's not much choice, is there? There aren't enough of us here with regard to the opposition. So we can't ask him here, and that's why I'm a little nervous when maybe some government officials here are shutting me up when I want to talk to a microphone, because here you're completely preventing us from talking to Prime Minister Fiala on live air in front of hundreds of thousands of citizens - no matter how it is and if he has any solutions at all. Well, he doesn't, we know that. As for the issue, when I said here, to finance the reconstruction of Ukraine, here I propose, hand in hand with this, I would like to call on the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, to say where there will be locations for the placement of Romani refugees in the Czech Republic, Ukrainian Roma refugees, because he is writing me a huge number of citizens, on Facebook, and together on social networks, 400,000 citizens of the Czech Republic are watching me and writing me really mass. They are very concerned because they do not want Romani refugees from Ukraine to be accommodated in their vicinity, who came here at the invitation of Petr Fiala's government. If they have Hungarian citizenship, of course they shouldn't be here. And now we hear at a press conference that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan now, after more than two months, says he's gonna control who these migrants are. Well, then it's pretty late now that they're here and they're already in trouble. So it only confirms its dilettanteism and its amateurism, which everyone now pays for, in the Czech Republic already citizens. Vít Rakušan merely said that he wanted Ukrainian Roma refugees, those inadaptable refugees, as if we didn't have enough inadaptable here, to place them in the South Moravian region and in the Highlands, so the citizens are horrified and write to me. The citizens of the South Moravian Region and the Highlands are appalled at where the government wants to place the inadaptable Roma refugees from Ukraine. Our citizens are completely appalled, and the government is hiding it. The government is hiding it all because you voted for an emergency and lied to people that the emergency would not restrict Czech citizens. And that's where we see it, because in an emergency, you're doing it secretly, just like you secretly agreed billions on refugees, in an emergency, and then after a month. And you know exactly why there's an emergency. You tricked people, which is why you do it in secret and you ruin people's lives here in the Czech Republic. And I ask and ask now, after 14 o'clock, because Vít Rakušan deliberately scored that point until tonight, so that it will be heard here during the day. Let him say and expect where and exactly where he will place Romani inadaptable refugees from Ukraine. Where? What cities, what municipalities, what locations? [[14.30 hours]] Of course, it is completely unacceptable that it is coming to someone that they want to be in a group. Well, I guess they're not in much trouble, those people, when they're still choosing whether they're in a group or a family of five, or a 70-man family when they have a choice. And we don't want it here, we don't want any inadaptable, inadaptable refugees. I hope it will be here in this debate around Ukraine, and again, here I propose a point of Ukraine, so the Czech government...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u7	Just for the record, Mr. Chairman, it's a new point...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u8	I'll get to that, please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u9	I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u10	Don't really direct my point design. I'll say the draft point, I don't have a duty to say it in the introduction. I can tell him the name of the point at the end of my performance. You know that, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u11	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u12	There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u13	I'd just make a note of it, make sure it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u14	Well, you'll make a note, don't worry. That is, the problem is that the Czech government gives 5 000 a month to those refugees per person and also repeatedly, but Slovák give 1,700 crowns and Polák give 1,580 crowns. So you're luring these refugees here at three times the dose that Poland and Slovakia have. Even Hungary, according to my information, has a lower dose. You are simply a government - I am not surprised that you are called the Ukrainian government and that Prime Minister Fial, who is mass-written by people, is already called the Ukrainian Prime Minister. You do not work here for Czech citizens, you do everything against Czech citizens. In this context, I would also like to quote and, of course, I will say this in my speech after 18 o'clock, that even the directors of Prague schools are already storming here. I have to say that I am a little frozen and sad that even at the primary school where I went a certain part of my childhood, which is the Chelčický Elementary School in Prague 3 in Olšanské náměstí, so also the headmaster of this school - I went there first class - says that he has not even complied with all those Ukrainian candidates since, quote, "otherwise, we would very quickly become a school with the majority of pupils from a different language environment." That means our school would already have a minority of Czech pupils! This may not be possible, because even before the Ukrajinec influx, they already had about 25 percent of the pupils born in families with different mother tongue. So now if they accepted the Ukrajinec, the Čech would already become a minority in their own class, in their own country, in their own school. And that's really - we're going somewhere that the SPD has always warned about and what we really don't want here, a minority in our own country. No, we really don't like that, yeah. And it's not about, I do tourism, I like tourists, strangers, I like to travel, but it's about keeping social peace, it's about keeping some balance. It gets out of hand, we see it in Western Europe. So that's not what we really want here, that's why parallel societies are being created here, that's what they call it. So again - and there is a warning: there won't be enough places for younger children in kindergartens because schools refused to accept each third child in 2018 according to school inspection data, with more than a third of them under three years of age, and that was before the influx of the Ukrainian refugees. And we don't hear anything from the government. And now, from what I heard at the press conference, because Vít Rakušan - not that I listened to his press conference, he's not that funny, but he happened to have it before us, so I listened to it there, and there's no solution here. So I prefer to say it now, because it leaked in the media, that it's just a general thing that he's going to present here. But that's not enough, I mean. I challenge you, government officials, that's not enough. The mayor of the city district of Prague - Kolovraty says, quote: "I personally believe that integration into ordinary classes is not ideal. Schools in the southeast of Prague are overloaded, which means that the quality of teaching for Czech children will decrease." But that's what you need to face. No, what Prime Minister Fiala says: we have to do this and what Vít Rakušan says. No, what Mr.Marek Benda, President of the ODS Club, says: We take everyone, we have to take them all without limit. That's what Rakušan and Prime Minister Fiala said. You're out of your mind! I'm warning you about this. I'm warning you, because citizens will start to rebel. Citizens will start to rebel, and we stand behind them, behind those citizens. It won't be easy. You're out of control. And you already, because - that means, you are the only one who has full responsibility for all the problems. I've warned about this all along, years before, about an uncontrolled wave of migration from anywhere, without any strategy. It's just a problem, and I have to say it here. I will also suggest that point in advance, don't worry, Mr Vice-President, because I will not wait for the 18th hour. That's where you guys are gonna be talking to each other tonight, then here. I may be involved in this debate, too, but we need to propose this point now, as opposed to us, and to talk about this point this afternoon. That's the point, so we understand each other, that's the point, we want that point this afternoon, this afternoon. That means government strategy against Ukrainian refugees, that's the name of the point, and I want to put it as the third point this afternoon. That means the difference with your point in government is that not tonight, when there's no media and the news is being filmed. We want it this afternoon, so it's still in the media quotes, so the media and the public can hear your toothlessness and how things got out of hand. So that's why. So, of course, I'd like to go further, because I've now satisfied Mr. Vice-President Bartošek here, who has already been waiting to see what will come out of this. And now it's remarkable, and it happens to be a coincidence that the KDU-ČSL representative is chairing the meeting right now, because it's your captain for the People's Party, Mr Grolich for the South Moravian Region, that he's already criticizing you, the government coalition, if that's how I can handle it, because the statements are clear. I quote them, and whether the public thinks it sounds like a critic or not. So he says about the Romani refugees from Ukraine, and I quote, "I don't know exactly where they're staying." He doesn't know. The government doesn't know, and the captains don't know, no one knows. This is a mess, this is unbelievable. Another quote from this folklore captain, a government colleague here, colleagues of the five-wheeler, here in connection with the fact that many ten-member families of inadaptable refugees with specific demands have arrived in the Czech Republic, so he says that the regions cannot refuse them, I quote: "They cannot refuse them on the basis of government's instructions." This means they must accept them, even though the citizens of the Czech Republic do not want them to. And now we're in contrast that the government doesn't want to say where it wants to allocate, so the citizens are desperate. All we know is that you want to place them, if Mr. Rakušan didn't lie again, to the South Moravian Region and to the Highlands and the citizens are appalled. Rightfully, I'd be appalled, too. But that's completely insane. And we're the opposition, so we're pushing as hard as we can to get them to act normal. But in your case, it's futile, especially since you rejected the SPD bill 14 days ago, repeatedly, to end the abuse of ill-adaptable doses. That means you're still supporting the inadaptable ones! That's a terrible problem, it's a problem, and I think your government should end quickly, because it's going really steeply towards worse. Another statement by Governor Grolich here for a folklore who clearly can no longer look at it is what your government is doing, even though he is your party colleague, so I quote: "It is happening that once we pay them 5,000 crowns" - so he confirms that you are paying these refugees 5,000 crowns a dose, so either one or the other is lying, either Jurečka, the chairman of the folklore, who says they don't have the benefits or what, or part of them is getting tangled up or his folk colleague, Grolich, who again says he is paying 5,000 crowns. So let's talk about who's lying to you, but either way, it's true they're getting it. We already know that. And I'm going to say this quote, "It's happening that once we pay them 5,000 crowns, they often sit on a train and leave. I don't know if they're going to another county or state or back to Ukraine. We're not able to follow it." Well, that's great. This normally, I think it's a normal non-compliance with a proper care provider with public funds, and it's a normal tunneling of the state register. It's not normal for you guys to be handing out money like you're on a running belt with taxpayers' money. And I think there will still be a debate about that in the future, who will be responsible for this. At the same time, you are unable to follow where taxpayers' money went. This is unbelievable. [[14.40 hours]] It's incredible what you're doing, especially in a situation where people are desperate, and they can't even afford overpriced energy. And that's going to cost food, because President of the Food Chamber Dinner says that now, in the coming weeks, even this year, the food price will be up to 30%, so the next hard impact will come. And then there's the gas, and so on, because you refuse to negotiate the gas directly, like Austria does. Germany also buys directly - in Russia of course, Slovakia, Hungary. It's not about that - pro-Russian, non-pro-Russian. Austria is a democratic country where we can certainly take examples, and they have the gas cheaper. Only our government buys it here through dealers in Germany so it can say that it doesn't buy directly in Russia, and the Němec buy it for us in Russia. Well, that's great, and we've got three times the price. That proves your policy completely. Crazy! Politics for the elite, politics for the rich. But we're here for all the citizens, we're in the SPD. And I'm going to give another quote to Captain Grolich of the People's Party. He responded that a larger group of Romani refugees had camped out in front of the railway station in Brno, saying: "They have a visa for a month, so they received a benefit. " This is unbelievable. How dare you use Czech taxpayers' money like that in government? So, on the one hand, you will reject the referendum bill proposed by the SPD here, because if this law existed, there would not be your bullying dictatorship here I claim against most Czech citizens, because I believe that if there was a referendum on whether or not the citizens agreed to pay the unadaptable benefits, then the overwhelming majority of citizens will say no. But that's incredible what you're doing here with taxpayers' money. And here I'm quoting your coalition commander on purpose, just so we're clear. And I quote, I prefer this place exactly. This is unbelievable. And another thing, another quote. He was asked in an interview that it was not only a matter of Brno - it was a question - but also of Prague or Ostrava and so on: "Are you looking for cooperation with the government to solve this problem?" And the answer of the People's Governor: "I drew attention to this during Tuesday's meeting with the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, for the STAN movement. We haven't found a concrete solution." End of quote. Well, that's for the immediate demise of Vít Rakušan. So he's not able to find a solution? So at first hundreds of thousands of migrants come in uncontrollably, we can understand that to some extent, but the SPD says that help should be adequate, only for the necessary time, and after the conflict that they should go back to Ukraine to build their country. And it must not be at the expense of Czech citizens to make the availability of health care or the availability of social services worse or the level of education worse. That's what we say, and that's what we stand for. But what you're showing is that you're a natural without any concept - and we've been calling you here for two months - we've been calling you here every meeting in the SPD: present a strategy on migrants. You have not submitted a strategy after more than two months. Well, I'd understand the first week, two, maybe three, but after two months, when do the citizens of the Czech Republic pay for it? And again, you lied about not restricting the emergency situation to citizens of the Czech Republic. You guys have fooled people. And I've already pointed out back then that you're lying, that Vít Rakušan is lying. I said it would limit the citizens of the Czech Republic. And now everyone sees that I was right and that you are a lying government. I apologize for these expressive expressions, but I have so many desperate people writing to me that I can't say it any other way. I can't say it any other way because it's totally awful. I would like to see a member of the STAN movement if Vít Rakušan had moved those Romani refugees into your community. Well, you guys are gonna raise your hand for this after all. I think that many of you want this not to affect your community, because you would be faced with an extremely difficult situation now, before the municipal elections, because that would mean your invulnerability. And that's what I'm convinced of if you'd nod to it. Citizens would tell you, especially because you're in government, why don't you get it somewhere else? And you're just gonna toss your hot potatoes around. But it would be a great mirror setting for some members of the STAN movement. In fact, why don't you, as mayor of the STAN movement, invite the Home Secretary: Look, we're in the government, we agreed to have this type of refugees here - so why don't you invite STAN Vít Rakušan, your party supervisor, to accommodate them in your community? You're okay with that, aren't you? Then show your courage. This is Mr. Cogan, the chairman of the STAN Club, Josef Cogan of Nova Paka. Now I'd expect courage from him to tell his party boss because he was taking the initiative here on a microphone. Well, Mr. Cogan of Nova Paka should take a stand...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u15	Through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u16	ano, your... Well, he's not here, so I have no way of reaching out. I am proceeding precisely under the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u17	Still. Members are addressed through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u18	But he's not here, so I have no way of reaching out to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u19	They are always addressed through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u20	Okay, it's kind of an interpretation we could talk about. I'm looking carefully at the bench, whether it's there or not - it's not, but that's okay, maybe he's listening, you're right, somewhere on the monitor. So that would be manly from Mr. Cogan of Nová Paka of the STAN movement, if he faced it and told his party boss Vít Rakušan - so Vítek, we're from the STAN movement, so move them here, you Romani refugees, I can handle it. He won't do it. I already know he won't. [[With a smile.]] That's the hypocrisy. Well, if he's not running for municipal elections anymore, maybe he will, but if he's running, he won't. That's your hypocrisy, because he'd know he'd flunked the election. You want to frame someone else, and that's your government coalition, that's how you guys go about it in the finals. I would normally say it's ridiculous, but it's not funny at all in this case. So I suggested three points, three points in a row: the first point of the meeting, the second point of the meeting, the third point of the meeting. Thank you for your attention and I hope that you will approve them, because citizens have a lot of problems and I don't think they can take a delay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u21	Before we continue with the priority rights, I'll read the apologies that have arrived. Today from 14:00 to 14:00 (?) for work reasons, Minister Martin Kupka apologizes and for health reasons on 10. 5. Apologizes to the Minister of Environment Anna Hubáčková. Another with priority rights is the President Radim Fiala, who lets President Schillerová in front of him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to propose two very important points. I'm gonna řeknout them right now at the beginning and then I'm gonna justify them. I would like to include at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies two House prints from the workshop of members of the ANO movement. It is the Parliament's press 158, paragraph 61, and the House's press 184, paragraph 65. Both relate to the reduction of VAT on energy and fuel, because we have repeatedly tried to discuss them at an emergency meeting last week and in the past week. It doesn't work, and we think it's much more important than, for example, the cancellation of the EET. Let me justify these points. According to Eurostat information, the Czech Republic is - and I will first quote Eurostat and then the Czech Statistical Office, which has today published absolutely up-to-date figures - so according to Eurostat in March countries with the third highest inflation in the European Union and in April it does not look better. According to the harmonised index of consumer prices, we had 11.9 percent in March and 13.2% in April according to Eurostat and the index of consumer prices, which quantifys the Czech Statistical Office, which contains, unlike Eurostat, the so-called imputed rents - that is, such a specific Czech, that is, that includes ownership housing - we achieved dizzying 12.7 percent in March 2022 and in April, and that is the most overwhelming report from today, in April 2022, we achieved 14.2 percent, which exceeded all expectations, exceeded estimates. According to the most pessimistic estimates, we were to approach 15 percent sometime in the middle of the year. [[14.50 hours]] So consumer prices rose by 14.2% compared to April last year. This is, please, the most recent three decades when annual price growth reached 18.2. in December 1993. The heights of the April annual index most affected what is actually involved in inflation, housing prices - of course we also have energy prices in our housing, that's part of it, that's what moved our housing - fuel and attention, food. If I were to take it apart a little bit in half, the increase in fuel and oil prices increased to 41,5 %, electricity prices by 30.1 %, natural gas by 44,2 %, heat, hot water by 17,5 % and also the rental prices from the apartment increased by 4,5 %, aqueous by 5,3 %, net by 6,4 %, solid fuels by 24,1 %. And now the groceries. Prices of flour increased to 52,3%, meat to 11 percent, semi-fat preserved milk to 31,3%, eggs to 14,2 %, sugar to 25,5%. Basically, between November 2021 and March 2022, the increase in food prices - that's the end of our government and the present, or a few months - so if I took the updated figures now, you can see the difference between the price of butter between these few months by some CZK 10 per kilo, it was 168,87, now it's CZK 178,66 per kilo. Bread was at that time CZK 29,82 kilos, now worth CZK 34.88 a kilo. The whole chicken was 58.44 and now the people will pay 61.70 a kilo for it. Pork ham increased from CZK 220.71 to CZK 236.97. The pork roast was 88.23 kilos at the time, now it's 96.35. Oranges cost 25,13 pounds, today 27,95. Tomato apples cost CZK 64,96 a kilo, now worth CZK 82.31 a kilo. mrkev was $17.22 a kilo, now it's $19.81. Edam 163.15 kroner per kilo, now goes to 185.24 kroner per kilo. Peppers 56,93 - now 79.89. Smooth wheat flour was CZK 14,41 a kilo, and today it is CZK 16.31 a kilo. Clothes prices increased by 21,4% and shoes by 15.2. As a result of this extremely high inflation of the Czech household, they are historically poor. The decline in real wages in 2022 is predicted to be up to 7 percent, and in the second quarter of this year even the decline in real wages affects the height of 10 percent. The value of the economic sentiment index, i.e. consumer confidence, is the lowest for Czech consumers in almost ten years, at 81.3 %, and is still falling dynamically. Unfortunately, in this respect, I have to say that Petr Fiala's cabinet does very little. The help he has presented so far is clearly not working. Record price growth threatens not only the weakest income levels of the population, but it is affected - and even experts now admit it, look at social networks, economists, experts - the middle income layer of the country's population. The phenomenon of price level growth can be monitored not only in the Czech Republic but also in the surrounding countries. It's basically a global phenomenon. Its cause is, firstly, the disruption of supplier-customer relations due to the covidal health crisis, the monetary expansion of most countries in the world, and the situation of course is also accelerated by the conflict in Ukraine. The jumping price increase - primarily energy - has already been addressed by our government in the last quarter of last year. We responded to him - or the sharp increase in prices on the world markets - with a general apology, my general apologies as Minister of Finance, value added tax for the supply of electricity or gas for November and December last year. All Czech consumers felt this general pardon. The proposal for a reduction of VAT, according to numbers according to the Czech Statistical Office, showed a reduction in electricity prices by more than 16 percent, gas by more than 11 percent, and it had a logical impact on inflation, which therefore decreased by 1 percentage point. When our government ended, inflation was about 5.4 percent in December. Our government also approved an amendment to the VAT Act, which was intended to reduce VAT for the whole year 2022 or for some limited time, because I believe that this crisis will not be here forever, but this proposal has been abolished by five coalitions without discussion and has not responded since then to this situation. And unfortunately, the prices have gone wild and it will be very difficult to tame them today. They're already entering citizens' awareness, corporate behavior, and they're part of our lives, unfortunately. Our movement has provided a clear recipe for how to help citizens, the recipe they apply in many countries of Europe - not just the European Union, it also applies to Britain, which is no longer part of the European Union - and has clear results. These countries are better off in terms of inflation growth than the Czech Republic. Of course, it is clear to us that inflation or price growth cannot be completely stopped, but our goal is to slow down the growth so that it does not affect Czech citizens to such an extent. Our recipe is - and this is part of my proposal - to reduce VAT to energy and fuel for a temporary period, because these are the initial costs that are written into all other prices and fall on food and on all the items that I have talked about, housing and so on. In view of the above dynamic increase in fuel prices, which are due to the increase in consumer fuel prices, we have just proposed to amend the Value Added Tax Act so that the value added tax imposed on fuel - diesel fuel, petrol - is changed so that, instead of the basic rate, the tax exemption would be applied with a right to deduct tax, thereby reducing this situation, which most affects low-income households, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but, of course, today and the middle layer, and reduces clearly the mobility of the population. At the same time, increasing fuel sales prices may lead to an increase in inflation as a result of a dynamic rise in prices for logistics services. Everyone has to come, bring the goods, take them away, it just increases the value of everything. [[15.00 hours]] The second way in which the government can really help Czech citizens is the exemption from VAT for energy, as I have now explained during my speech, because as a result of this dynamic increase in global energy price, it is the price to which the Czech Republic has no influence. This is the result of the prices on the world markets, but of course they lead to more energy and, in turn, they translate into our housing, they cost rents, they cost people their lives and, of course, companies, entrepreneurs. That is why, in turn, we have proposed to amend the Value Added Tax Act in such a way that, instead of the basic rate of tax, an exemption with a right to deduct tax would be applied to the supply of electricity and gas, thereby reducing again this situation, which most affects low-income, medium-sized small entrepreneurs, but, of course, already on the middle layer today. At the same time, it is the high inflation environment in which we are clearly in today, we have the third highest inflation within the European Union, it can threaten and threaten social reconciliation. Take a look at the surrounding countries that, unlike the current five-wheelers, help their citizens in times of crisis. Germany, for example, came from surrounding countries with a tax advantage of EUR 300, which is about CZK 7,400, and a reduction in fuel prices for three months. The Germans want to make it easier for people commuting by car by reducing fuel prices by 30 cents, that's about 7.40 kroner per liter of petrol, and 14 cents, 3.50 kroner per litre of diesel. The Němec don't even forget the low-income people. They released CZK 3.17 billion into one-off aid. A very reasonable step was taken by the Němec on the issue of public transport. Here, for a period of three months, they will introduce a discounted ticket, which will cost EUR 9 per month. While in Germany we have decided to support public transport, on the contrary, we have doubled transport for seniors, for pensioners, for students by increasing this discount compared to our reduced discount for this particular part of the population, i.e. completely unreasonablely canceled or reduced discounts, and I still think that public transport, and we can agree on this, is more environmentally friendly than transport by passenger cars. But why aren't all environmental activists on alert, it's a mystery to me. Poland has already introduced similar steps before Germany, which reduces VAT to gas, from 1 January 2022 from 23 % to 8 percent, and from 1 February from 8 percent to 0. Poland's a good place to go. At the same time, the Polish cabinet comes up with a significant reduction in excise duty on fuel, with complete remission of VAT rates on basic foodstuffs and at the same time a reduction in VAT on electricity of 5%. But let's get even closer - Slovakia. Slovakia, a country with lower inflation and higher government debt than the Czech Republic, also agreed with the largest electricity producer in the country, the Slovak power plants, that until the end of 2024 people would be collecting electricity at the same price as now, which was to save more than CZK 12,000 for individual households. The Slovak Government announced a package of new measures for almost EUR 1.3 billion, where child allowance increases, tax bonus and at the same time receive a one-time contribution from families with children, seniors, households in material distress and other groups. A vast majority of the European Union countries have taken similar steps. And why isn't it possible for us? We have some of the healthiest public finances, we have extraordinary revenues due to inflation in the state budget. At this point, I ask, where did the will of the members of the government coalition go to help? Why do Members who asked us to extend aid during the pandemic period with the impact of hundreds of billions of crowns on public budgets fail to support Czech citizens in times of falling inflation? Why are we not taking measures that are being implemented by the vast majority of European Union countries, such as the reduction in VAT, the change in tax rules for fuels, electricity and gas, or the introduction of price ceilings for rocket fuel prices? The Czech way chosen by the Cabinet of Petr Fiala is to allow the consequences of the whole price increase to Czech citizens. And yet it is the state that benefits from rising prices. For example, almost half of fuel prices are heading to the state budget. Moreover, the government and advisors of Petr Fiala are calling for this broad step. Read today's tweets of economic experts who are on his advisory team. I would like to propose the points proposed, Mr Vice-President, as the first and second points of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u23	Thank you. I've noted the suggestions, there are two of them. And now with priority rights, President Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proposing a new point, which will be called the Energy Crisis, Green Deal and emission allowances. I just want to say that we sat here last week at an emergency meeting that was supposed to deal with these things, but unfortunately, we didn't even get the five-wheelers to approve the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. This means that neither our members nor the members of any other opposition party could speak and we could not discuss it, which means, of course, that nothing happens, that the government is concerned about the citizens of the Czech Republic in terms of energy, fuel, food - we are going to discuss it today - it just doesn't care. After all, I will just say what I know from social networks, where politicians from all over Europe tell us that we have an excellent Ukrainian Prime Minister. Let's go back to the energy crisis. I have to say that the first thing I want to deal with at this point, which I propose for today's meeting, is to rethink the higher value added tax, not only on oil, electricity, but also on natural gas, and how to move it down very substantially in this crisis year, because if we reduce the value added tax on these components, for these energy commodities, of course, the price of energy that we have in the Czech Republic will fall very significantly. And it is not only natural persons, it is citizens, but of course it is also legal persons, it is companies, because it needs to be realized that they need a huge amount of energy, and if these companies fail, or at least partially cancel their operations, it will mean increasing unemployment. Unemployment may now be the lowest in history or almost the lowest in history, but what is today may not be true tomorrow. And we draw attention to this, to the five-calice government, because if we really stopped taking Russian gas, for example, it would be an economic problem, and the country would fall into recession. It would mean a huge increase in unemployment, and we need to weigh on the pharmacies' scales, if that's what we want and if it's worth it. Normally, when we talk about oil, electricity, natural gas, renewable resources, it would be common, rather uninteresting topics that only a group of experts and politicians, mostly from the economic committee, are dealing with. But with the rapidly increasing energy prices, which raise not only the prices of transport, heating, production, but practically all products and also many services, it is an extremely important topic at this time. Without exaggeration, problems in energy now affect every citizen of the Czech Republic. [[15.10 hours]] We may not be fully aware of this yet, but I think that once our bills start coming in, and for God's sake, some companies are going to cancel their operations, because they just won't have it on them to tighten them financially, I think every citizen of the Czech Republic will realize it very quickly. Energy prices are rising, inflation is skyrocketing, and our incomes and savings are being devalued in front of our eyes. We can't stay calm in a situation like this. These energy topics also have one other common feature. They are all closely linked to regulation by the European Union, i.e. in many possible solutions, either by common sense or by experts, we are limited by the rigid and often senseless law of the European Union. In other words, we cannot do what we consider to be good or best, because the law of the Czech Republic is subject to the law of the European Union. Today we are in the European Union, so it is explained to us that we should keep our mouths and feet, making no bold decisions, because it would not be in accordance with the law of the European Union. Not the European Union itself tells us this, but the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic tells us this too, which says: Better not do anything! Yes, it is the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic that is the guardian of unity and untouchable ideas through which the train does not pass. But the European Union usually solves crises slowly, stupidly and lately, or not at all. We have seen this in dealing with economic crises, such as the Greek economic crisis, in the cod crisis, and now we see it even more clearly in dealing with the energy crisis. The European Union's solutions are more or less political. They do not reflect either economic or economic nature or the social nature of the problems at all. Here, the Union leaves it more or less to the Member States. As usual, she's not gonna come up with any great ideas. But everyone will be looking for a Europe-wide solution that does not yet exist. In Brussels and Strasbourg, we also pay a huge bureaucratic apparatus from our taxes, but we are useless. In Brussels, the completely ideological system of emission allowances was created, the predecessor of the even crazier plan Green Deal, the Czech Green Deal, which was to finally arrive in the economy of the countries of the European Union. Otherwise, I simply cannot explain that someone will invent a system that is essentially designed to destroy sovereign states, their industry, their economy and their economy. After all, it's not just a conflict in Ukraine, but if you remember, before the conflict in Ukraine, energy prices began to rise exponentially. It was precisely because of the so-called Green Deal, when different countries started shutting down power plants, not only coal ones, but some countries like Sweden or the Federal Republic of Germany even nuclear ones, and of course there was a lack of energy on the market. This means that prices have started to rise. And the conflict in Ukraine has totally arrived, ideologically, economically, economically, and so on. So Green Deal was the beginning of energy price growth in Europe, and unfortunately from Green Deal, the European Union and the Member States have not yet been able to, so far they have no interest in moving away from it and say: We can do all this, as we know it, and here our colleague used it, the Merkelian Wir schaffen das, we can do it. But I'm not entirely sure about that, and I'm more concerned about that, and that's why I'm putting this item on the House's agenda - that it might be the other way around. That the biggest loser in Ukraine will, of course, be the Ukrainian people, ordinary people who live in Ukraine, but then Evropa. Right after that, Europe, socially, economically, politically, economically. And I just don't want it! That is why I am trying to include this item on the agenda for today's meeting to provoke debate and debate on the future of Europe, and this is linked, of course, to energy prices, Green Deal and emission allowances. Emission allowances, the last part of the name of my point, which I propose for this meeting, should improve the environment in both Europe and the world by less polluting the environment. In reality, however, there is a new kind of commodity with which to trade happily. It's actually a new security that has nothing to do with the environment anymore. This needs to be repeated because we are proposing a withdrawal from this trading, from the emission allowance system. And I want to, again, provoke the debate and debate about putting it in today's meeting and on this serious subject again. As a result, prices are rising sharply for our citizens and other citizens of the Member States in the European Union. Experts argue that energy prices rise by up to 50 per cent due to the emission allowance trade, in other words, that 50 per cent of the energy price is precisely emission allowance trading. One of the main causes of the electricity price crisis was that the European Union gradually reduced the number of emission allowances on the market. This logically increased their price and caused problems for energy users in the Member States. No other state in the world or group - other than the European Union - has yet established such a senseless system to increase electricity prices and other energy costs so that speculators can make money on it. We basically feed speculators, stock market speculators, where they determine where they sell, trade energy, so they raise the price of energy in Europe, in Central Europe, and we pay for it. I think that's probably all I wanted to do about my proposed point. As Tomio Okamura said here, we have proposed a new law. Only in three sentences, Mr Vice-President, will I repeat it because I consider it very important, and I know that President Okamura has already proposed this, but I also want to provoke the debate and debate on this new law, where we will actually create a third branch of energy trading in the Czech Republic produced in the Czech Republic, where energy would not go on the commodity exchange, but the government would directly sell these energy with some margin at a price that the government will say on the basis of experts, so it could sell it directly to natural and legal persons in the Czech Republic. Of course, it would only be necessary for a period of time, while the price of energy goes up exponentially steeply. This third branch is called the social tariff. Not that it's focused only on the narrowest social groups that really get into energy poverty or energy poverty. It would focus on all Czechs and all Czech legal entities, all companies. It's a general solution, it's just a ceiling on energy, energy prices, nothing else. [[15.20 hours]] So I hope that I will be able to provoke the debate that you will move on to this point and that we will be able to discuss it at today's meeting. And I suggest, Mr Vice-President, I think that points 1 and 2 and 3 have been proposed here, so I would suggest it as point 4 of today's agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u25	If I understand correctly, you want this to be the fourth point after the three proposals made by President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u26	Yes, that's right, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u27	Yes, I'll make a note of the proposal. I'll read an apology. Today, between the 16th and the 17th, Mr Marek Ženíšek apologizes for the negotiations. And I'm registering two more requests with priority rights on the agenda, first President Marek Benda and then Vice-President Havlíček. Next, they will be duly logged in and the first of them is Mr Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u28	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, except I do not fully understand why the SPD, which has always fought us bravely against electronic records of sales, is doing everything today to delay its discussion when it was said to be included in the Grémium. So allow me to make only two proposals on the programme as announced on the Gremium, namely that point 1 of today's meeting be paragraph 16 of the current programme, the House Press 177, which repeals Law No. 112/2016, on the record of sales, to make it as point 1 of today's programme, and at the same time to include the House press 137, paragraph 77, of the amendment to the Construction Act, for tomorrow's day, where we have some points fixed for 10 o'clock, that's just the drop-off amendment at the third reading, tomorrow at 10 o'clock. So many of my two designs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u29	Thank you. I have noted your proposal and I am registering another application with the prior rights of President Radim Fiala, but before him is Vice-President Havlíček. [[Member Radim Fiala from the area near the table of stenographers towards the President: I only have technical and I know I can't.]] Unfortunately, I'll give you the floor after the Vice-President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u30	Mr Vice-President of the House, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Members or honourable Members of the Government, before I present the points that I would like to include at the meeting today, and I will not be surprised that these are energy points, I will just mention one piece of information and I believe that we have registered it this morning, and these are directly linked to those points, because they are linked to the resources from which we could finance the compensation. CEZ made CZK 23 billion for 2021 last year. In the first quarter of 2022, the net profit is CZK 26,7 billion, which is an increase of 218 percent, and total net profit is expected to be somewhere between CZK 45 and 49 billion, which is twice what was last year. I merely point out that, until a month and a half ago, CEZ's net profit was expected to be somewhere between 38 and 42 billion, so only a month and a half later it shifted by CZK 10 billion, and we are at the end of April. For those of you who are even more oriented in the economy, a very significant EBITDA figure, or the operating result before depreciation, is already at 43.7 billion crowns at this time, which is an increase of 119 percent compared to last year, and it is expected to be almost 100 billion crowns in 2022, in other words, what will actually generate for cash. These are extreme increases in profit and are far from all days ending, it is quite possible that it will be even more than is now expected. I do not want to speculate on the reasons, ČEZ has given sufficient reasons, but it is clear that this is, among other things, due to the global energy crisis, which, of course, benefits energy companies. Let's wish it over to ČEZ, nothing against it, but let's take advantage of it. Let us take advantage of this by having the chance to have the highest dividend in ČEZ's history, and we should - and I dare say that it is almost an obligation - to use it to support those who are most affected by high energy prices, that is, households and companies, and we can look for different keys to redistribute it. Therefore, I also propose to include points 59, the Renewable Resources Support Act, 153/1, and also point 60, the Emission Allowance Trading Act, which is 154/1. The reasons are obvious, I have mentioned them here several times, now I will look at it from a slightly different point of view. Forgiveness of payments for renewable resources, which mainly involves a solar tunnel, from 2006 to 2010, would amount to CZK 19 billion per year, which falls only on families and only on companies. Another CZK 25 billion or CZK 26 billion goes to the state budget. If we forgive these 19 billion crowns in 2022 and in 2023, it will cost us the 19 billion crowns a year, so we have a chance to pay it - ad 1 - from the increased dividend from ČEZ, which I have now presented, and the rest without major problems from money at higher prices or from income at higher prices of emission allowances, which are immorally high, and in that second law we propose that it be an amount of CZK 8 billion per year. Without any problems from these two amounts, CEZ and the amount of emission allowances, we are laying down the resource that would cover our renewable resources, and it would undoubtedly be even more - and that is the question of whether we would need to use the instrument for reducing value added tax. That's for the government to decide. It is not our job to decide, it is up to the government whether they choose VAT, whether they choose renewable resources, or any form of austerity as in 24 countries of the European Union, that it is up to us to present these solutions and not to be populist, so that we also show how we can finance it so that it does not immediately affect the state budget. Renewable resources are elegant, it is a simple tool, a non-bureocratic tool, there will only be a lower amount on the invoice or on the bill, or the full amount will not be paid. What is clever about it is that the government can do whatever it deems appropriate to contribute, so it can forgive the full amount for renewable resources, or it can forgive even more than the amount to be paid, and then the customer will pay a little less for other consumed electricity. I only respond when I had a performance here last week, so I heard from a whole bunch of people who were watching it in detail, and they're right and they're saying, as the price of electricity goes up, but logically, the share of renewables goes down, because the amount is still fixed, and it's true, so while it was like 15 percent two months ago, today it's less than 10 percent. However, the state has the opportunity to forgive more than just the amount of the renewable resource. Yes, then it wouldn't be the 19 billion, it would take 22, 23 billion, but I say again, only in ČEZ it can be found. It can be ceilinged by the fact that it will only be for households with a certain consumption, so no one has to worry about financing or supporting those who are richer, and it would also be symbolic, because we would once and for all - perhaps not forever, but at least for a year or two - get rid of the weight of the solar tunnel from 2006 to 2010, which will cost us 600 billion crowns, although we will produce electricity from solariums below 3%. When can we ever forgive these spendings of citizens and companies other than in a time of energy crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u31	Mr Vice-President, I just want to ask, I've recorded these two proposals - the number of points 59 and 60, but please, when do you want to assign them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u32	Yes, thank you. Sorry about that. I'd like to put it right behind President Schillerová's point, which means "dephee."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u33	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Radim Fiala, but I do not see him here. In that case, we will continue with proper applications for the agenda. Mr. Aleš Juchelka will be the first to speak, Mr. Radek Vondráček will be prepared, then Mr. Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope to persuade you to put the following point on the agenda for this meeting, because the situation is getting more and more pressing. I believe that the increase in prices of everything, including food, energy, fuel, but mainly housing - because we will see that last week, the Czech National Bank raised interest rates by 0,75 percent - and thus it will also translate into all mortgages and into the fact that families have bought their own housing, and if they have floating interest, I think it will cost them not by hundreds of CZK, but by thousands. I just hope - and I hope so, along with the others who are making similar proposals - that we will discuss this. These days, and maybe you're getting it into your mailboxes, people are getting new energy backups. If it were by a few hundred, I completely understand, but it is by thousands of crowns, and at this moment it simply takes the mantra of this government for targeted and targeted aid. The current energy trading, and it has already fallen several times, is completely unpredictable and has, of course, a connection to its price formation and increasing inflation. To this point, let's face it, the government hasn't helped more than helped. What was she trying to do to help? I understand that normative housing costs have increased, so the number of people has increased, but also, of course, the amount of the housing allowance has increased. At the beginning, the previous government proposed, of course, an increase in normative costs during October and November, and thus an extension of the number of people reaching the housing allowance, but at the moment the aid is insufficient, and it needs to be rethinked that something might turn up for the housing allowance, at least simplifying it for the medium-income ones. Emergency immediate assistance: we have no data here at all, we don't know how many people have applied for it, and at all how much has been paid for emergency emergency assistance. Here I would very much like to propose that this information be supplied by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because we do not know, as I say, the number of people, or the amount, perhaps not the average amount of money that each family has received. The increase in the existential and living minimum, the intermediate step, is absolutely unnecessary, because what the government has proposed, and the increase of 10 per cent, has also taken on its own, as I said in the introduction, because it will be increased again, by 5 to 10 per cent of the existential and living minima. It's just gonna end up at the employment offices, and there's gonna be twice as much administration. It could have been done directly according to our proposal, our twelve measures. This has to do with the fact that, of course, if we do not help across the board as in 24 countries of Europe, the administrative costs of individual so-called addressed and targeted aid will be really enormous. At this point, we're already seeing overloaded labour offices. Evidence of this is also a strike emergency, which at this point has been postponed at some point in the negotiations perhaps just tripartite at the end of this May, except that simply and simply, if nothing like this is resolved, the authorities of work will definitely go to the strike in my opinion, because how they are rewarded, and the enormous increases in individual agendas are really intolerable and in some disproportion. As far as help is concerned, it bothers me personally that it has been completely forgotten about the disabled. I keep saying that over and over again. They cannot help themselves in any way other than simply waiting in the context of social reconciliation for this state to help them. They can't make any extra money, have two jobs, and so on. They just need to be the ones who are being cared for. Already, help is needed not only to the poor. This philosophy of government has already taken over six months ago and we see it every day. We can see that those who were on the side of the deceiving party in the social media are also beginning to fall into the social media and are now coming on the side of the recipients of social aid. And it's gonna get worse, and I'm begging you, that we don't do any more messy things like that five thousand-dollar contribution, for example. [[Vice-President Kovářová: Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] That's why I propose a point called The Plan of the Government, which I require as soon as possible, because I feel that there is no such thing...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u35	You have time, so just suggest a point, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u36	Yes. A government plan to address the social situation in the context of the expected price increase. Once again: a government plan to address the social situation in the context of the expected price increase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, your time is up!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u38	And I want to include him again, if I may? [[No.]] After Mr. Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. I'm taking over the meeting and I'd like to ask you, you always have five minutes to load the motion to change the program. I beg you to keep this time. You can watch the clock. Yes, please, Mr Vondráček and Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u40	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to save up the time he's dragged over by a colleague named Juchelka. I'm gonna have to be shorter. It's 15.36. Every speaker here already feels like an obstructive speaker, so perhaps the right side of the hall will be difficult to convince that the subject is important. So I'll try to attract sympathy by not talking for five whole minutes. I hope I can handle it. I've been performing here since April 26th, then April 27th. I proposed points that were named, for example, the Information of the Government on the restriction of freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. This time I chose the name, I prefer to say it at the beginning, and this is the Information of the Government or the Opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic on the legal vacuum in restricting freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. I've already performed for the first time on the 26th, quite long, quoting personalities like Voltaire, Orwell. Nothing happened at all. I followed the interpelations that some of the members of the SPD had directed at the Prime Minister, this was a general debate and we did not learn anything concrete about the legal solution. I've been telling you this story about how I personally dealt with the Minister of Justice that, according to the media, he's the one who's supposed to be planning some law on combating misinformation. He publicly denied it. The Minister of the Interior also responded, saying that repressive actions in the form of the preparation of new legislation are the most extreme solution that we are currently discussing only theoretically. I'll translate into Czech: probably not. Subsequently, the Pirate parties were also questioned. The spokesperson of the Pirate Party has apparently announced - yes and, by virtue of the fact that there are two ministers to which this might apply, the most probably present Minister Šalomoun, who is also Minister for Legislation, but perhaps also Minister Bartoš, who is also Vice-President of the Government for Digitalisation. And we're talking mostly about digital space. There was a statement from the government's agent Mr Klíma, who said that we have a whole series of analyses on disinformation. Then, in response to a direct question from journalists, the Office of the Government said that it does not have any analyses. [[15.40 hours]] We are therefore here at the moment in a complete legal vacuum, where freedom of speech is being restricted, server shutdowns where it is openly spoken and writes about criminalising certain opinions in this society, and there is absolutely no legal basis. The only thing we've seen - if I've been watching the media very closely - is that the Prime Minister expressed himself in the sense that he admitted that the campaign of Defense Czech Republic, which provoked me, was probably not entirely happy, and that the campaign that said it wasn't snitching, that it wasn't the best idea. It's really typical of this government to walk around thinking that they're just gonna wait, that they're gonna sit out in some way, and that it's gonna work out in some way. But it's just not like that. In direct contrast to us can be Slovakia, where they quite quickly adopted a lightning novel and somehow put up a fight against misinformation. But they have, in turn, completely overreacted, and on the basis of some vague definition of harmful content, they have a huge scope for administrative decisions and, if necessary, for banning Internet posts and, at all, restricting freedom of speech. They got it wrong. I think Slovakia corrects badly, but we have it even worse, that we have no legislation at all. The CZ.NIC domain administrator informed in the sense that they are acting on the initiative of security forces and government. I ask again, what is this, a stimulus? Was there a real official letter or wasn't there? And I didn't get the information. I would therefore like us to really address this point. It's important. I think it deserves a parliamentary debate, and we don't have enough extremely important laws to find a moment for it. Well, I spent those five minutes. So I suggest we put this point as a new one, the government's position on the legal vacuum, either on Wednesday, 11. 5. after fixed points, possibly on Friday 13. 5th as the first point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It was close, but I tolerated you for a few minutes. Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will now perform twice, so you will be running twice five minutes and please keep up the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u42	I don't think I'm gonna use it, but I'm done so I don't have to leave here and come. Thank you for your kindness. So, ladies and gentlemen, consistently with my performances - it is nothing new - I would ask you to support two proposals. Thank you for the smile from these ranks, which perhaps predicts that it could get the support. The first thing is printing 41, serial number 46 - the amendment to the Trade Code, which deals with the known Airbnb, the short-term accommodation, which mainly concerns the City of Prague. I know it bothers you. I'm reminding you, I already took it from the left to the right. I'm looking at it from a different perspective today. I don't know, I'm gonna run out of options. For one thing, I'm going to want to put it on a fixed time at 17.40, because we have another point from 6:00 p.m. to give proof that more than 20 minutes we won't give it, so I'm going to remind you that I've been telling you in this one performance examples of European cities dealing with it, that it's not just the situation in Prague, but that other European cities are dealing with it. At the same time, I would like to thank Jakuba Michálek, who sent me some basic material, how this matter is being worked at the Ministry of Regional Development. However, the situation that I've been talking about since January is ahead of us for the next summer season. Fortunately, Covid disappears, tourists return, and all the changes we make in the city centre of Prague will be more complex and complex. It will certainly be harder than the moment Prague was completely empty and could do some things, some changes - like visual smog we solved in the city center. That's not the moment the tourists are there, the moment they're full of gardens, and this could be used. I have prepared a brochure for you here this time, published by Prague 1 - I want to sleep in peace. Anyone who wants one more. I thought I'd give it to the rapporteur for this press, which is Vojtěch Munzar. There you have a beautiful description of the history of everything, how it affects life in the capital centre, what is the number of officially and unofficially rented apartments, what are the basic problems, comparison with other cities that solve it. Then you have some photos, some examples of community, neighborhood, quiet sleep, decent tourists and so on. I'll really ask you, I'll put it in two versions, 17.40 and possibly 17.20 as a fixed time for today, because I have a second proposal. So it's, as I say, press 41, a proposal from the City of Prague. I apologize for the non-Prague not so interested, but we've been dealing with taxi drivers, currency exchange and so on in the past, it was also a matter of Prague. That's the first one. Now I'm gonna go straight to the other one, saving time because I haven't exhausted it, and that's the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure. It's print 48, it's serial number 47. This applies to the fact that - I have explained it here already, so let me just remind you - that if the consumer turns to an out-of-court body such as an arbiter, an ERU, a CTU, the moment he ends up in court, the court doesn't have to inform the out-of-court authority that there's a trial going on with the consumer. He's there in the role of defendant. It gets into trouble that he wanted to avoid the trial, ended in court anyway and can defend the decision of an out-of-court authority infinitely worse than the out-of-court authority itself. I'm going to appeal again, however much I'm not going to be praised for it, to your colleague Karel Haas, who has read it and said it's of a different quality than the financial arbiter we've been arguing about here. At the same time, I will recall and refer also to the current government, which gave a favourable opinion on this proposal. Once again, I'd like us to include it either at 17.20 or at 17.40. I'm not ambitious to go through both of these designs, but there's only gonna be one. We're not really gonna work for more than 20 minutes again. For my colleague Karel Haas, I say: if we had an opposition window, I would report it to the opposition window, but unfortunately we have an extraordinary meeting there, which is generated by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I don't choose the time, so I have the only chance of giving it for a limited time, that I am limited by myself then rushing it, and it won't take more than 20 minutes. But we will help consumers with this, and it is really a useful thing that your government has given a favourable opinion on. I'm sorry, I'm gonna keep trying these two things here, because I think sooner or later, you're gonna be right. It's not a hold-up. It'll obviously take less time than approving the program, but we'll help a whole bunch of people. As for the first, about the short-term accommodation, I just remind you that the municipal elections are coming, so especially the coalition that runs Prague will brag about how it's going to be handled or how it's going to be handled. I am already doing statistics on how many times I have tried in vain to enforce such a thing here and how many times I have unfortunately encountered Members who are in charge in Prague and who have neither the willingness nor the courage to raise their hand here, because I am suggesting this probably as an opposition MP. Thank you for your support - at 17.20, 17.40 in the various variants, if I have said so in clear terms, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u43	Yes, I have a record, Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Mr Robert králíček will now appear, Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u44	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is I again, your déjà vu, and I am coming up with my redesign. I took that line from the 2000 Czech Angels Award, and I didn't want to be like Mr. Nacher, saying I didn't want to perform. I wanted to be original. [[15.50 hours]] I would like to ask, as traditionally, for the House's pre-printing number 131, alternatively as today's first point, or as the first point on Thursday and possibly as the first point on Friday, these three alternatives. This is an amendment to the Cyber Security Act, and as you know, we adopted the amendment to the Military Intelligence Act last election period, which was quite crucial in the cyber defence of the Czech Republic. Also, this amendment to the Cyber Security Act is quite important, or I would say not quite, but very important, and I think it will not take that much time. As I mentioned last time, I believe that there is both professional and political agreement on this amendment, with which the previous Government has come to the House. It is true, and it is always correct, as Mr Kolovratník says, that it has not been approved under our Government, so I ask you to put that point forward, because it is a matter of ten, fifteen minutes and the transposition of the European Union that appears in this amendment should have been approved on 28 June 2021. That is why, as Mr Nacher, I humbly attend each meeting here, and I ask that we put that point before us to do what we should have already done. I will just briefly repeat that this law, this amendment to the Act on Cyber Security, is processing the relevant European Union regulation and is following up directly on the applicable regulation of the European Union and regulates the security of electronic communications networks and information systems. It is very important for our National Cyber and Information Security Authority, because as a national cyber security certification authority, this office will supervise the rules included in European cyber security certification systems and monitor compliance with the obligations of manufacturers and providers of products, services or processes in the field of information and communication technologies established in the territory of our State and which carry out their own conformity assessment, as well as to monitor the activities of public bodies that are conformity assessment bodies. This is quite important and crucial, and I think that the current situation that is happening in the world also shows us that cyber security is quite important and also comes to the level of conventional security. That's why I would ask you again to approve one of those terms, it's for ten minutes, it's a political consensus. I think we are all voting for this, and it will be very helpful to the Czech Republic and to our defences. Thank you for your attention, and if we don't approve, I look forward to next time. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Karla Maříková will now be ready and present, Mr Vladimír Zlínský will be prepared. And before I give you my word, Madame, I have one announcement. Mr. Feranec cancels his apology. Furthermore, Mr Marek Ženíšek apologizes between the 16th and 17th because of the negotiations and there is an apology for Minister Kupka from 15.30 to 18.30 for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to propose a new point entitled Discussion on compensation for damage after vaccination against covid-19 disease. On December 4, 2020, the former Minister of Health Blatný here stated in the discussion of covido vaccines in the Chamber of Deputies, here at the Chamber of Deputies: "Although this is not a compulsory vaccination and it will not be a compulsory vaccination, the State will take over the guarantee for this vaccination." During 2021, the vaccination pressure was growing, until the beginning of December 2021, the Ministry of Health amended the so-called vaccination decree on the basis of which vaccination against covido-19 was to become mandatory for selected population groups. The current Minister of Health Válek canceled the amendment to the vaccination decree and with it compulsory vaccination after public and political pressure. The vaccination guarantee, which should also include compensation for injury resulting from vaccination against covid-19, was materialised in one single provision of Law No. 569/2020 Coll. with a long name that could be simplified as the so-called law on vaccination against covid-19 disease. During the year and quarter in which the Czech Republic is vaccinated against covid, it has been shown that it is unlikely that the Ministry of Health will compensate anyone at all. Paragraph 2 of Law No. 569/2020 Coll. in relation to the assessment of injury and the scope of the compensation, reference is made to Law No 116/2020 Coll., on compensation for damage caused by compulsory vaccination, to be applied mutatis mutandis for compensation for possible injury caused by vaccination against covid-19. However, it does not provide for an indication of an effective link, or only in the provisions of Section 3, to establish a presumption of causal link between the injury to health and compulsory vaccination, as follows: "If the injury suffered by the implementing legislation is likely to result from the compulsory vaccination in question and this result occurs after the compulsory vaccination in question has been carried out at the time provided for by this implementing act, it is considered that the injury to health has been caused by compulsory vaccination'. As regards liability under Section 3 of Law No. 116/2020 Coll., the Act does not provide whether it is a conjecture refutable or irrefutable. Proving cause and effect of injury is very difficult, which significantly weakens the damaged person's position. The Constitutional Court was aware of this when it made an argument in its provision of 12 August 2008, which reads as follows: "The essence of medicine is actually to enter into the whole chain of causes and consequences in the process that are taking place in the human body, and by external intervention to influence these processes, change their direction, effect and so on. The doctor's intervention thus in itself changes the natural course of things in the human body, interfering with complex relationships of causes and consequences. Even in the case of an active doctor who chooses a treatment procedure, it is very difficult to determine whether this procedure was, above all reasonable doubt, the only possible cause of the harmful condition." The Constitutional Court thus followed up on its prior consideration contained in this provision, namely that a 100% demonstration of an objective causal link appears unrealistic or unattainable to the Constitutional Court. This consideration is further developed by the Constitutional Court as follows: "Since the concept of causal link is not defined in any way by legislation in the Czech Republic, which was also stressed by the Czech Court of Justice in its judgment, nothing prevents the case law of the Czech courts from reconsidering the requirement of a 100% proven causal link and accepting a more adequate and realistic interpretation of the cause of damage which would compensate for the weaker position of the victims. The patient's fundamental right to physical integrity and, as demonstrated by the case, the right to life, including through the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Civil Code relating to compensation, should be protected more strictly.' In the procedure of recommendation of the Ministry of Health when applying for compensation for damage caused by covid-19 vaccination, it is stated that it can be applied (a) for suffering pain, (b) for loss of earnings or difficulty in social use. With the fact that these claims, as well as the actual injury to health, need not only to be claimed but also to be supported by the necessary evidence. Although the court can certainly modify the amount of such compensation and for the purposes of compensation by the Ministry of Health it is necessary to discuss the fulfilment of legal certainty requirements. Therefore, please support my point, because we have two laws to compensate for the damage after vaccination, but neither respects the Constitutional Court's decision to emphasise the principle of full compensation for injury. Many people were vaccinated for various reasons, whether out of pressure, wanted to protect society, or even for financial reasons, did not want to be tested all the time, and if people were vaccinated for the good of society, they should also be treated in solidarity with the state, or they should become solid if they have any problems as a result of vaccination. Please include this point for the following proposed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u47	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Mr Vladimír Zlínský will now appear, Mr Jan Síla will prepare. Before I give you my word, Mr. Ambassador, let me read your apologies. The Minister of Environment Anna Hubáčková apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, and another apology for Minister Kupka from 14 to 14.30 for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u48	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I propose a new item on the agenda, which is called the Security Risks of the current migration crisis. I propose to include him as Mrs Maříková's item. It is appropriate to ask how the government is dealing with possible security risks associated with Ukraine's migration. What do the security forces of our state have an overview of any criminal past and the motivation of incoming men? Are all refugees really from places where there is a war conflict in Ukraine? Are these really people who have lost their homes, or have some of them just taken advantage of the opportunity to stay with us free of charge and to treat themselves free of charge? How is it that we accept men who are under Ukrainian law obliged to fight to defend their homes? How many percent of Ukrainian refugees are not registered with us, and for what reason? And why does this government tolerate that? How does the government want to motivate a substantial proportion of Ukrainian refugees to return to the country after the ceasefire is concluded? How does the government want to motivate a substantial proportion of Ukrainian refugees to participate in our work process and not be a burden on our social system? What has the government done to detect serious infectious diseases such as AIDS, TB, and hepatitis among Ukrainiancomers? Does the government have any methodology on how to locate and control at least the most risky groups of intruders in order not to develop epidemics of these deadly and disabled diseases in our population? In what way is the government currently being treated so that Ukrainian citizens who have refugee status after returning to Ukraine do not go to their homes to the Czech Republic for a contribution of CZK 5,000 and do not consume quality health care in our country? Or is it your aim to provide these benefits to all the citizens of Ukraine who will be interested in this? I ask for a clear message to our citizens, what is your precise intention. These and similar questions are asked by our citizens, but the government ignores them. As if she didn't care about Ukraine's refugees returning to their native country after the ceasefire and peace was concluded, so that Ukraine's now overthrown will once again become a great country, which will be a full member of the communities of the European nations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Síla will now appear and Mr Jiří Mašek will prepare himself. Please, Ambassador, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to give another point to the House for discussion, very important to all citizens of this country, and this is the funding of health care in 2023. How much healthcare money can swallow, we all know that, and that's all of it. We have Western European health care, which only works because of the low cost of work, non-compliance with the Labour Code and the work of pensioners. It should be pointed out that Minister Válek took the position of a machine that drives a dangerously running train down the hill with insufficient brakes. First, covid, a follow-up wave of Ukrainian refugees, and the current increase in energy, fuel, and food prices determine the health that we will probably not be able to support next year. It was originally expected that the system would start to collapse financially with demographic developments. However, the current spending leap in cover on the revenue side brought the possible impact substantially closer. Expenditure on health care from public health insurance was expected to reach CZK 427 billion this year with a planned deficit of CZK 12 billion. The payment from the state budget for the so-called state insured should have been CZK 14.5 billion year on year this year. Originally, the state budget was to deliver nearly CZK 142 million to the public health insurance system, covering about 30% of all its expenditure. However, in order to improve the state budget, Prime Minister Fiala's government decided that approximately CZK 6 billion will be deducted from the health system from the Ministry of Health chapter, but also the planned CZK 14.5 billion for state insured persons. Bottom line, we get from the original deficit of CZK 12.5 billion to CZK 32.5 billion. Given the surplus in health insurance companies, in their funds, and those funds are mostly mandatory, where there are about CZK 55 billion, health funding for this year should be provided, including 350 000 Ukrainian refugees. But why do I start funding health care for 2023 now? A conciliation procedure is held between February and June, which determines the payment decree for next year and which will determine to whom and how much health care providers pay. One of the few securities in the first months of 2022 is therefore a strong pressure to increase payments for state insured persons in 2023. Each hundred crown in one month's payment for one state insured person means about 7 billion budget expenditures for the state, so that the pressure will go strongly against the declared consolidation efforts of the new government. Insurance companies with minimum reserves cannot enter this meeting otherwise than with the suggestion that they will pay roughly as much as they paid this year for care in 2023. This is a position that, given the growth in expenditure and output and entry into care, providers cannot accept wider inflationary pressures in the economy. If no agreement is reached, the amount of payments is determined by the Ministry of Health by a payment decree. Given that we do not know how covid will behave in the autumn, what inflation will be and whether the war in Ukraine will continue, the planning of health financing for next year is very dubious. Therefore, I strongly ask you to approve the inclusion of this item in the House's negotiations. That's about it, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jiří Mašek will now appear and Mr. Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u52	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, I would like to ask for the inclusion of a point. Opening of the discussion on the correction of the Pension Insurance Act, namely early retirement of members of the basic components of the integrated rescue system. In the House, during the summer of last year, we jointly approved that the workers of the integrated rescue system will be entitled to early retirement without financial penalties from 2023. But the amendment to the law, as it turns out, contains errors, and officials are likely to reject all requests. The Pension Insurance Act now contains a provision whereby all people who have been employed in the components of the integrated rescue system are entitled to an earlier pension. In practice, it is supposed to work so that they would retire prematurely without their pension being reduced financially. Currently, if the proper retirement age is less than 63 years old, early retirement may be up to three years earlier. In the case of a pension age higher than 63 years, it is possible to leave up to five years earlier, but at the earliest in 60 years. In all cases, retirement is being reduced. The sooner people retire early, the lower their pension. Firefighters, policemen, paramedics and other personnel of the IZS are to be exempted in case of early retirement, should not be financially punished. [[16.10 hours]] The novelty was approved by politicians as an amendment in approving an extraordinary contribution to the valuation of pensions, but the approved amendment contains some unthinkable inaccuracies and it is very likely that the Czech Social Security Administration will reject all such requests. The amendment was drafted in both factual and legislative terms inconclusively and incomprehensiblely, and the intended objective cannot be implemented in its view. "MPSV pointed out these facts before the hearing in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate, but the amendment was nevertheless approved," Jaroslava Sladká of the Press Department of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs said for the Czech Pension Portal. In the view of the Ministry, the novelty is not feasible in practice and without additional legislative adjustments it is not possible to meet the conditions which would ensure the granting of an unabated early pension. The early old-age pension is an old-age pension to which he was entitled before he reached his retirement age and, therefore, the entitlement to it cannot be made conditional upon his retirement age, Sladká said. It simply means that such a firefighter or police officer would have to meet the conditions that are mutually exclusive, in order to reach not only the early retirement age but also the proper retirement age, in addition to the 20 years worked in the IRS. If the amendment had not been approved, the ČSSS could not have taken decisions other than rejecting opinions in respect of the reduction of the pension age without penalties for the prematureness of the IZS members. The error of the amendment is also that it does not contain procedural procedures, such as how to show the work of the IRS and how officials should process it. It is also problematic for a group of workers to be covered by an earlier non-sanctioned pension. As regards the IZS components, the Act on the Integrated Rescue System defines. [[is or]] "The proposal covers a wide range of persons, basic and other components of the IZS as well as all employees of other IZS components who participate only occasionally," Jaroslava Sladká explained for Czech pensions. Basically, people who do not work full-time in the IRS should also be entitled to an earlier pension, but are called on to various interventions if necessary, for example voluntary firefighters. As a result, entitlement to an unabated early pension could arise even with a very short participation in IZS events, for example less than one year, which is completely unwarranted, the Ministry said. The Ministry stated that it is now necessary to adapt the law quickly in order to grant unabated early pensions. Although the novelty begins to apply from the beginning of 2023, the pension application can be submitted four months before the start of the pension. The first firefighters, cops, or paramedics could be applying for a pension in September 2022. So there is a very limited time to prepare and approve the amendment and correct the law. Madam President, I would like to apply for a point Opening of the discussion on the correction of the Pension Insurance Act, namely on early retirement of members of the basic components of the IRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u53	Thank you, too. [[Unique applause from the benches of the YES movement.]] Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear and Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a point on the topic of a discussion on the status of a protected person for teaching staff. I want to respond to a pretty current situation in the town of Bílina. I'm sure you have a problem where in primary school there must be paid security to protect educators and other pupils. Unfortunately, it's just the tip of the iceberg, the problem is wider across the country, and I think it's mainly the courage of the director who came up with it on the outside. The problem is clear. Of course, we have to have some leverage for those parents. If we don't have leverage for parents, there's no way we're gonna have leverage for the kids. If our parents aren't working with us, we barely have a chance to move with the kids. The status of the protected person has already been overshadowed here at the House. It certainly doesn't solve the core of the problem, but it's a way of at least some solution that could help teachers and directors. In general, we can soon get into a situation when we will somehow not have a elementary school director. The reason is a simple, ever-increasing administration. Directors, as they say, don't know where to jump first. I naively assumed that the administration would be limited and that the solution would be a course to be paid, and the directors would learn how to delegate work. Personally, I think that the directors are self-righteous people who know very well who and how to delegate to. It's not much to offer, unless the director wants to employ his cleaning lady's agenda when he's having a little break at a big break where he can't mop 'cause there's kids in the hallway. Pretty logically, they're already delegateing it to their deputies. Now a novel is to come, which will increase the direct teaching activity of these representatives. As a result, they quite logically return the part of the agenda they took from the directors. So it's kind of a vicious circle. Go ahead with the very limited powers to deal with these problematic situations. Consider that today it is quite common that more than 40 percent of the auditions for primary school directors will be attended by only one candidate, so this is an amazing selection. The Commission chooses, it can choose either one or one. This already suggests a reduced prestige and interest in becoming a elementary school director. If you ask, especially in these problematic locations, but generally across the country, directors, if they go back to being directors, in most cases they'll tell you at least they'll fucking change their mind. I have friends, elementary school principals. When I was a teacher, I thought, "The career in education is like being a director to me." After personal experience from my friends who became CEOs, I rejected it very, very quickly. Huge responsibility, very, very slim. That means that if we don't start doing something about it, and it's not a question for you right now of finance, but it's a question of workload, creating an acceptable working environment for those people who are really coming to an end. Consider how they managed to cope with the covid situation, how they had to struggle with the not-so-famous inclusion that was from above instead of being created from below. That means that if we don't help those directors, we're gonna have a big problem in the future. So that's my proposal, and why do I propose this point? I get the impression here that pretty often some good ideas are thrown off the table only on the basis of political affiliation. Some material will be prepared that will give a huge amount of work, and it's a waste of energy. Why do I want that point? I want to see interest across the political spectrum, if there's any interest in helping these directors, and then, of course, I'm gonna go for it with great enthusiasm. As far as inclusion is concerned... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Yes, just an assignment. I do not insist on any priority, I just have to place this point in the order in which I presented it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u55	Okay, thank you. What does that mean, then? [[Member Kettner off the mic: in order as I said.]] So you're suggesting some sort of inclusion of that point? You designed a new point and if you want to place this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u56	In that order - I don't know how many points I've given it. If you can help, what was the number? [[Member Kettner asks for the President's help.]] Point number, I'll say...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u57	You didn't mention the point, I think.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u58	Okay, so let's say point five, as the fifth in order. Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u59	Does that mean today?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u60	Yes, for today as the fifth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u61	Fifth point, okay. Thank you. Mr Martin Kolovratník will now appear and Mr Jaroslav Bašta will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u62	Good afternoon, thank you very much. I would like to address you on behalf of the electoral committee with a request for the inclusion of new ballot points and then for the firm inclusion of those ballot points. Firstly, we have a meeting on the agenda of the House of Deputies, but it is not fulfilled, so please leave it and do not pay attention to it. Secondly, in order to be comfortable with the procedure of the Rules of Procedure, we would like to add two points to the agenda - the first will be the proposal to choose a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and the second will be the election of two members of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Investment Support. This is one vote on the inclusion of these items in the agenda. And then I would like a second vote to decide on the firm inclusion of all electoral points, as is usually settled in the House, tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., and it would be in order: first, paragraph 83, second round of the SAO Vice-President, he is already in the agenda, followed by the SFDI Supervisory Board and then the SFPI Supervisory Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u63	Thank you. That means we're leaving a point of change in the organs, but we're not going to place it firmly, and then point 83, which is vice-chairman of the SAO, right? [[Vice President.]] Vice President of the SAO, which is point 83, and the following two points, okay? [[Member of the Colonnavigator agrees.]] Thank you. And now, Mr Jaroslav Bašta will appear and Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u64	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose at the meeting of this House of Deputies to include a point entitled Recovery of the redistributive payment of subsidies in agriculture to the original amount of 10 per cent and preventing the liquidation of large agri-businesses. Let me give you a brief explanation. The war in Ukraine, the energy and food crisis that is partly related to it, shows us that it is time to start thinking very seriously about restoring the Czech Republic's food self-sufficiency. Minister Jurečka expressed other possibilities in a humorous shortcut, which will open up to us for the future. Specifically, he mentioned cow droppings usable in biogas stations, which will help us reduce dependence on Russian gas. When I read about his idea, I remembered an old joke. The Indian chief gathers the tribe in the fall and says he has two messages for all, one bad one and one good one. Warriors want to hear the bad news first: You were lazy, so we will drown and feed on buffalo dung all winter. The good news is that buffalo dung is enough. In our case, both messages are wrong. In one of its first decisions, our government significantly increased the redistributive payments of subsidies in agriculture from 10 to 23 percent to the detriment of functioning agri-businesses. In their consequences, as everyone who addresses the problem highlights, this will mean the destruction of cattle farming and the production of milk and meat. Therefore, at the meeting of this House of Deputies, I propose to include a point entitled Recovery of the redistributive payment of subsidies in agriculture to the original amount of 10 %. I suppose then we'll fulfill the wishes of Minister Jurečka, because it's expected that there will be enough bullshit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u65	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Only at the beginning you mentioned an extension of the name, namely the repayment of the redistributive payment of subsidies in agriculture to 10 per cent and the prevention of the liquidation of large agri-businesses. Yes? Is this how it works? [[Mr Basta agrees.]] Thank you, and now, please, Mrs Helena Válková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u66	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Five minutes is not enough on the issue, which is what I will talk about, but I will try to be more brief. This is specifically the crisis situation of children's refugees and their mothers at the Prague Central Station. I have also put together a question that I have deliberately pushed away several times, because I have given space to the government coalition to find a specific person in the position of an agent or an agent of the Government for human rights, who is precisely the kind of problem that we are now encountering, has the opportunity to deal with both competences and executives. I no longer have the competence, as you know, to resign on January 31, 2022, after the Prime Minister, through you, Madam Vice-President, has asked me to continue. Now it is very missing - but no one could know, of course, what would happen in February 2022 - such an agent or agent, and I convinced myself of that with my own eyes, with two visits to the Central Station, when they said by the way: Finally someone came from Parliament, finally someone came, a Member or a Member. And I was there more as a human being, a former deputy, who was approached by non-state nonprofit organizations and also by the Romani organizations that I represented in the Council of the Government for the Romani Minority. So there are no children's refugees at the main station for up to ten days exclusively, and I saw also non-Romani children there. They're very small, so each one of us who had a baby and raised you gets your heart stiff because they're about one to five, six, seven years old. They're in incredibly emergency conditions, catastrophic conditions, on the ground. And everyone, including the young firefighters that I approached, of course, said to me, "We have a deadline in ten days." I said, "Those ten days are those kids lying here?" Without being taken care of? Fortunately, there are people - and I want to thank them very much here at this point - he is the CEO of the Railway Administration and his subordinate engineer Vágner, who have decided on their powers - as you know, the Main Station is being cleaned from one o'clock to about three thirty - that they will not be evicted and that they will be left there to have enough time for the police to check the relevant registration systems, where they are from, where they are coming from, what these refugees want to do. It's not for me to criticize, that's what other people were here for, and they very competently criticized an inoperative record system. My point is that as a woman, a mother, a lawyer, a former Human Rights Commissioner, I cannot and I do not want to see how we do not respect fundamental human rights by which we are bound by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. And who doesn't believe me, I can show him with the mother's consent, but I won't give it to the media, nor will I send it to anyone, the photographs I have taken to see if we really can, as Prime Minister Fiala said at the press conference - no, sorry, that was Minister Rakušan - that we can proudly walk into the Chamber and be proud of how we manage the migration wave. At least in this small area, however, the most vulnerable of us, at least in this area, cannot be proud of ourselves. So I propose either as the first point today, or as the first point on Wednesday tomorrow, or as the first point on Friday, to include the Crisis Situation of Children's Refugees and their mothers at the Prague Central Station and the missing Human Rights Commissioner/Governor, who would or would ensure that she follows strictly in the Czech Republic without any view of any possible discrimination against fundamental rights and human freedoms that we have signed and to which we are bound by international conventions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u67	Yes, thank you, Madame. Looks like we've exhausted all the proposals to change the program. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes today between 17.15 and 19 for working reasons and Ondřej Benešík today from 16.35 to 17.45 for working reasons, and Mr Petr Bendl for today's meeting from 16.00 for working reasons. And now we would vote. Yes, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u68	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, given that we have two and a half hours in a row, what we have experienced here has been a clean obstruction of the opposition, I say that, on behalf of the government coalition clubs, I am vetoing the inclusion of all the new points that have been raised here by the opposition, with, of course, the only exception of the electoral points raised by Mr Kolovratník, who are in a broad agreement. But all the reports that have been presented to us here, of course, what is on the agenda can be moved, we will have a regular vote on this, but we will veto new points on all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on proposals to amend the programme. I was interested in checking out. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I also recorded the veto on all the new points. I'll reengage and call in colleagues from the lobby. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. The number of entries seems to have stabilized. If no one objects, we will vote on the proposals that have come from the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 64, registered 165, for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. So now all the points we discussed on the Gremium have been approved. We will continue with the next points, only those that are not new points, because they have been applied to the veto of five parliamentary clubs. The first item will be the vote of President Schillerová's proposal. It is the number of paragraph 61, House press 158, VAT reduction, and it is listed as the first item on today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 65, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 48. The motion was denied. Now we're going to vote on the option, no, sorry, here's the option from the President. Excuse me, objection? Please, anything to vote on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u70	I'm sorry. Please question the vote. I voted yes, but on a high note, or at least on my record, I had a delay. I beg you to question this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u71	Yes, or we will vote on questioning Mr Kolovratník's vote. I'm hearing a motion to unsubscribe. I checked you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. We will vote on the objection of Mr Kolovratník, who challenged the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 66, 167 Members and Members signed up, for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote once again on President Schillerová's proposal to include paragraph 61, House press 158, VAT reduction, the first item for today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 67, 167 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 79, against 72. The motion was denied. We will now continue with the next item, the next proposal by President Schillerová, which proposes the number of paragraph 65, the House press 184, the VAT reduction, to include as the second item today. Isn't that right? Yes, as the second point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 79, against 76. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Benda's proposal - paragraph 16, House press 177, the abolition of the EET, proposes to put the first item on today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 69, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 107, versus 58. The motion was accepted. [[16.40 hours]] Another point was proposed by President Benda - item 77, House press 137, amendment to the Building Act - at 10 o'clock tomorrow. I'm asking who's in favour, and I'm opening the vote. Who's against it? Voting number 70, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 87, against 79. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on Mr Havlíček's proposal, which proposes to include item 59, House press 153/1, supported sources of energy, as already approved points. Is that okay? Yes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 71, 167 Members and Members signed up, for 80, against 63. The motion was denied. The next item to be voted is the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček, paragraph 60, House press 154/1, the terms and conditions of emission allowance trading. It is proposed to include as already approved points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 167 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 78, against 62. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Patrik Nacher's proposal, paragraph 46, House press 41, the amendment to the Trade Act. And we have two options - Tuesday, today at 17.20, or at 17.40. We will now vote on Tuesday's membership on 17.20. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 73, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 77, versus 20. The motion was denied. So we're going to vote on the second option, and we're going to put it on today at 17.40. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 78, against 26. The motion was denied. The next proposal is again Mr Patrik Nacher's proposal, paragraph 47, House press 48, the Civil Procedure Code, once again in two options to place firm on today's day, first variant 17.20, second variant 17.40. So we're going to vote on option one, and that's a solid classification today at 17.20. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 16. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Robert Králíček's proposal, item 11, House press 131, amendment to the Cyber Security Act, in three variants. [[Objection from the hall: There was no vote on the second variant of Mr Nacher.]] Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Nacher. We've still forgotten, I mean, the second option. We are therefore voting in paragraph 47, in the House Press 48, voting in favour of a firm classification today at 17.40. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 78, versus 17. The motion was denied. And now we will vote on Mr Králíček's proposal, number 11, House press 131, amendment to the Cyber Security Act, in three variants. First point today, Thursday and Friday. We will therefore vote on a firm inclusion first for today as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 167 Members and Members signed in for 60, versus 30. The motion was denied. We will now vote firmly on this point on Thursday as the first item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 63, against 41. The motion was denied. And now we will vote on the third variant of this proposal by Mr Králíček, a firm inclusion for Friday as the first item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 167 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 62, versus 47. The motion was denied. Now we've dealt with individual points. I am sorry, colleagues, I have overlooked Mr Kolovratník's proposal, which proposes to include new ballot points, the Supervisory Board of the SFDI and the Supervisory Board of the SFPI, firmly on Wednesday 11. 5. at 13.30, respectively, the classification of electoral points. This means first point 83, the election of the Vice-President of the SAO, and then, if necessary, other approved ballot points, SFDI and SFPI. First, we will vote on the inclusion of the SFDI Supervisory Board and the SFPI Supervisory Board. I'm asking, Mr. Ambassador, about each one separately? Can we vote together? [[16.50 hours]] We are voting on the inclusion of new points, which is the choice of SFDI and SFPI Supervisory Boards. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now we would deal with a firm classification of these points, or a block of electoral points. Wednesday, 11. 5th at 13.30, we firmly include point 83, the election of the SAO Vice-President, and the second point of the election of the Supervisory Board of the SFDI and the third point, the election of the Supervisory Board of the SFPI, which is the State Investment Support Fund. Is that okay? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 162, against none. The motion was accepted. Now we have dealt with, I firmly believe, all the points of your proposals. And before we start discussing the first point, I'll read the apologies. Minister Jana Černochová apologizes within 18 hours for reasons of work and further apologizes Mr Jan Hofmann between 16 and 17 for reasons of work. President Schillerová with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have tried, of course my colleagues have, too, but I have tried to reclassify the VAT reduction to zero on energy and fuel. We didn't succeed, we have 14.2% of inflation today. Of course, this is mostly about the increase in energy prices, fuel prices, it is written into rent, housing, food. Instead, the five-police wants to discuss the motion to abolish the EET, it went through its inclusion as the first point. At this point, I must say that we must prepare for this point, and I therefore request a break for the ANO meeting within 18 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u73	I'm interrupting a meeting for an ANO club break until 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-10-ps2021-019-05-000-000.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the ANO Club meeting has expired. Welcome back to the meeting. Let me first read the note that came to me. From the meeting of the House today from 17.15 to the end of the meeting day, the first Vice-President Věra Kovářová apologizes. 5. from fourteen to the end of the day, Mr Sadovský apologizes for working reasons.From 16.30 on account of the hearing, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes, and from 14 to 17 o'clock on account of working reasons, Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologises. At 18 o'clock today, we have firmly placed a point called
