ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /house print 296/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will also be made in this case by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u2	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, this draft law No. 582/1992 Coll. The aim of this amendment is to address the issue of medical assessment services in particular. We are in a situation where, in the Czech Republic, I think, in terms of the functioning of the state towards the citizens of this country, we are very much indebted to the way in which it is prosecuting, or rather, the medical assessment service is unable to process the requests of our citizens for assessment. We have prepared this amendment, which also builds on certain efforts of the previous Chamber of Deputies, in order to speed up the functioning of the medical assessment service. The most important change and the aim of this proposal is to complement medical assessment staff with a new position as a medical professional, who will participate in the health assessment process and prepare expert documentation for the production of the assessment. The opinion drawn up by this worker will be approved and signed by a doctor of the district social security administration. The draft law lists clearly the expertise under the Non-medical Health Occupations Act, which will be a qualifying prerequisite for the performance of this worker's activities. At the same time, it provides for the acquisition of special competence for closely defined health activities in the assessment service by completing a certified course. The period for completion of the certified course shall be 24 months from the date of entry of the medical professional into employment. What is also important is to be aware that a nonmedical healthcare professional will perform -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, but especially in the right-hand side of the hall, I'm going to ask you to keep it down so that you understand what the Minister is saying. Thank you. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u4	It is also important to note that this non-medical health worker will not work under the Civil Service Act, but will work under the employment relationship. For this reason, the Civil Service Act No. 234/2014 Sb. Acceleration and modernisation of the health assessment procedure proposed by a procedural measure - it is the establishment of a period of time by the social security authority, which must not be less than 15 days for the submission of supporting documents by the person assessed for the assessment of its state of health or the introduction of electronic communication of medical assessors with health service providers in the context of co-operation in the assessment of health status for social security purposes. In Law No 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, partial adjustments are proposed to make the assessment of temporary incapacity by the sickness insurance authority more effective. The effectiveness of this law is proposed on 1 January 2023. Thank you for supporting this bill, which we really aim to speed up and also to make our medical assessment service more effective. Thank you for your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u5	I, too, thank you, Minister, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u6	Good evening. Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Fellows, Colleagues, Minister Jurečka presented an amendment to Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, including other related laws. He summed up the most important changes and also mentioned the goals this amendment has. It follows a certain effort from the last parliamentary term, but it has not been far from being completed. We all know that the medical assessment service has long been struggling with the personnel deficit, especially in medical positions of the assessment service, and is also struggling with the high age of these doctors, thereby disproportionately prolonging the assessments presented by the medical assessment service, on the one hand, to assess disability, care allowance, some benefits, and so on. This proposal therefore establishes a new position as a medical professional, which is a little different from the previous changes, when we strengthened the administrative work there a little bit. The expert, a nonmedical health care professional, will be able to participate directly in the assessment system, with a doctor registering and signing this assessment at the end of the process. So there should be some division of work in the first-round assessments, it should speed up the effect of assessment on the medical assessment service and make the medical assessment service more effective. There are also some other changes in the activities of the Czech Social Security Administration in order to improve communication between the Czech Social Security Administration and clinical doctors, as well as some steps leading to further electronization of the process, just to speed up communication and to make it more friendly to both clients or applicants for individual assessments, as well as on the part of doctors' assessment services and clinical doctors. So much for the introduction to this novel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate where I am registering one application and Mrs Lucie Šafránková has submitted it. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We have long been promoting and demanding an increase in the personnel capacity of the medical assessment service under the SPD, which will primarily help our disabled citizens, but not only them. So I'm glad the government finally came up with this proposal. After all, the reform of the medical assessment service system is also an important item in our electoral programme. And it can't just be these partial changes that I'm starting to discuss today. In this respect, the introduction of the Institute and the position of a medical professional is the first necessary and correct step, especially in order that our disabled citizens no longer have to wait disproportionately for an authoritarian assessment of their health status and for the subsequent granting and payment of the relevant social benefit or disability pension, as is currently the case in many Czech regions. However, in connection with the constant decline in assessment doctors due to their high average age, many other systemic changes are also needed. So we definitely support this proposal for the SPD, and we will definitely approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u9	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm asking if anyone else is applying? Please, Mr. Rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u10	Let's have another good evening. I did not want to abuse the position of rapporteur, and I would also like to make a few comments on this proposed amendment. As I have already mentioned, it follows up on certain efforts by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from the previous parliamentary term, which made some operational changes, not legislative ones, and it also follows up on the last parliamentary amendment, which was submitted in 2020, by colleague Jiří Běhounek and myself, on which we worked, and I am saying this frankly here, with the MPSV and on which we spent many months at that time. We have seen at that time how critical the situation is in the medical assessment service and that only those operational solutions can produce a long-term effect. Here I agree with my colleague Šafránková that even this amendment, which we are presenting today, will not solve the situation of the medical evaluation service in the long term. Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was inspired by our amendment, for the most part, to establish the professional health worker, to inspire and actually take over the House press 1010 from the last parliamentary term and add some other changes to this. Nevertheless, I would like to point out here that the changes that have led to the improved communication between clinical doctors and medical assessors may not be entirely enthusiastically accepted by those clinical doctors. It is important to remember that both doctors in hospitals and doctors practical and doctors specialists today are so burdened with administration that every other duty is beyond what they are able to handle. That is why I want to ask the Minister here, and of course we are also having this discussion in professional circles, so that we continue to take these other measures to make the review service work better. I am thinking of measures that would lead us to speed up the system at the very beginning. Today, we are actually lacking a comprehensive methodology on how clinicians are to make expert assessments on individual types of applications, i.e. on the application for disability, the application for a care allowance or the purchase of a medical aid. If, on the one hand, we were able to prepare a structured document for individual requests in electronic form in a legislative and methodological manner, it would make life easier for doctors in practice, speeding up the system. And if there were any misunderstanding or need for additions, the communication between clinical doctors and doctors would be quicker. So I'd be very much in favour of this novel going through. I'm very glad he's here. But let's not fall asleep on laurels. We need to look at the age of doctors' assessment services in order to improve the critical situation, which is long-term in the medical assessment service, so that we do not extend disproportionately the time limits for exposing these individual assessments in the future. In those past periods it was so that it did not go beyond a week, 14 days, but some applicants for an invalidity pension or some aid, possibly a care allowance, waited three or four months beyond the legal deadline. And we can't let that happen in the future. Thank you for your attention. And I believe in supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-004-004.u11	Thank you. No one else in the general debate is logged in or logged in. In that case, I am ending the general debate. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking if anyone else will propose another committee? But I didn't do one thing, I'm sorry about that. After the general debate, I did not ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you wanted the final word. It's not like that. It's not like that. I'm sorry again. And now we will continue to vote on the guarantee committee. As I said, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking if anyone else is suggesting another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone like that. Well, I'll put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in agreement with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 8, 131 Members and Members registered, for proposal 120, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] The President of the Chamber of Deputies has not proposed to order this motion to the next committee, and I am asking whether you have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? I don't see a suggestion like that. Since there was no proposal to extend or shorten the deadline in the general debate, we voted on everything that had to be voted on, and I am ending this item. I'm opening the final item on today's meeting, and that's point number.
