ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u1	148. Support for the territorial integrity of Ukraine and condemnation of the Russian Federation's war aggression I ask that Mr Marek take the excellent words and make a motion for this point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u2	Madam President, honourable members of the Government, honourable colleagues, under the agreement of the Grémia, there is a point entitled "Promoting the territorial integrity of Ukraine" and condemning the war aggression of the Russian Federation. Let me start by asking the President and the Honored House to agree with the House's meeting at this point and for the ambassadors of Ukraine in the Czech Republic, His excelence Jevhen Perebyjnis. I ask you to put this to the vote immediately, Madam President, thank you. I think it is quite right that the Ambassador, who was present at the speech and speech of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenský, should also be present to discuss this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u3	Thank you. This is therefore a procedural proposal, and I will therefore call on my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. Then I'll sign you all out first, and I'm asking you to come forward again. Let's take a vote. For those who are just coming to know, we will also vote on the presence of the Ambassador of Ukraine Perebyjnis at the meeting on this point. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the Ambassador? Let him press the button, raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 126 registered 115 present, for 111, against none. The proposal has been adopted and we have hereby agreed on the presence of the Ambassador, whom I therefore welcome again with this among us. And I give the floor again to the plaintiff of this point, Marek Výborný, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u4	Madam President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear Ambassador, I think we all remember very well the tense atmosphere and, at the same time, the atmosphere of full commitment that was held in this House on 24 February in the evening, when we have gathered here quite exceptionally to stand on the side of Ukraine to stand on the side of the country fighting for its independence. I think that even then, on February 24th in the evening, this House fulfilled today's words by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenský about the fact that we are really with you. Czech Republic, Parliament of the Czech Republic, Chamber of Deputies is on the side of the Ukrainian nation. I am very proud of this House, I am very proud that we were able to show this not only by the extraordinary meeting then, but also by the resolution that we adopted in support of Ukraine in the fight against the war aggressor on 24 February and then repeatedly by the resolution of 5 April this year. The outcome of the war cannot be a compromise with the one who commits war crimes. Ukraine deserves our support because, as the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala, Ukrainian men and volunteers from all over the world are fighting for our freedom as well as our independence. We must not be silent, and as legislators of the Czech Parliament we can send a clear and understandable signal and appeal both towards our government and towards the international community. Therefore, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs consulted on the draft resolution, I would like to read the text of this resolution, which I am asking the President to vote after the end of the debate: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, commemorating the values of the free democratic world and the legacy of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk and Václav Havel, enshrined in the Constitution of the Czech Republic and expressed by our membership in the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, outraged by testimony and evidence of serious crimes involving, inter alia, the killing, torture and sexual violence committed by the army of the Russian Federation in Buchi, Irpini, Mariupola and other regions of Ukraine, recognising the obligations of erga omnes, resulting from the mandatory standards of ordinary international law and the codified Hague Conventions, the Geneva Conventions and the Conventions on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of genocide, welcoming in this context the investigation initiated by the International Criminal Court on War Crimes and Crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine, recalling the previous resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies of 24 February and 5 April of this year, the Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic: I. categorically condemns Russia's policy on the destruction of Ukraine's cohesion and statehood; II. Calls on all countries in the world to provide as much cooperation as possible in the investigation of war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine in order to ensure that the perpetrators of these crimes are punished; III. Notes the clear responsibility of the current leadership of the Russian Federation for the crime of aggression and the start of the war in Ukraine; IV. Notes that the Russian Federation is to blame for damage to life and property in Ukraine, which must be replaced by reparations; V. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to continue to support Ukraine with the supply of the necessary material and to promote the integration of the country into the European Union." Ladies and gentlemen, this is the text of the resolution, which I am asking the House to vote on at the end of the discussion of the item Supporting the territorial integrity of Ukraine and condemning the war aggression of the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u5	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. Mr Marek Ženíšek, who can also take up seats at the rapporteur's table, has been designated as rapporteur, and I will now start a debate in which I have several entries. Minister Lipavský is the first to sign up, Minister Rakušan immediately follows, then President Schillerová also reports with priority rights, and Mr Ženíšek and Mr Bašta are also registered in writing. That's all from the logged in so far. I would remind you that the Grémium agreed that one speaker would perform for each club if this club was interested. Therefore, please first of all, with the priority right of Minister Lipavský, if we do not have him here, his order is moving to the end at the moment and I will ask the Minister Rakušan, who is present. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to make a very brief comment on what my previous speaker, Mr President of the KDU-ČSL Výborný, has already formulated. I wanted to speak intentionally only after Minister Lipavský, who would bring this into the foreign policy dimension. Rather, I wanted to focus on the consequences of the Ukrainian crisis for us, our life in the Czech Republic. Of course, it is a huge challenge for our nation, for our citizens. Of course, we are going through a kind of stress test here at this time, but above all, we are also going through a test of whether the Czech Republic as a state, such as citizens, can be solidarity. Whether we can provide help when another nation that fights for us, for our values, for weapons, can provide sufficient facilities for the wives and children of those who fight for European values at that time. Whether we can show what is important to each state as a state means our soul and some good nature. And we have succeeded and I want to thank the citizens of the Czech Republic very much here. More than 70 percent of the people in the Czech Republic, citizens of the Czech Republic, have helped in some way the arrivals from Ukraine, whether it was providing accommodation or some humanitarian aid. But the vast majority of people in our country have helped and still helped. Of course, I realize that the first mood, the first joyful ethos, the help that came out simply and simply from the horror, when we saw the bombs falling on the civilian population in Ukraine, the first wave of solidarity had faded a bit. On the other hand, it is necessary to realise how the Czech Republic has reacted, valued at European and world level. Really and objectively, the reputation of the Czech Republic improved thanks to the citizens of the Czech Republic, but also due to the fundamental attitude of the whole Czech Parliament, the whole Czech government. Because at certain moments, it is necessary not to approach populism. At times, there is a need to show principle. And the moment one country attacks another, the moment the most fundamental values are threatened, the moment civilians die, the moment we defend ourselves against an aggressor who comes to take for himself the territory of a free state, we must not engage in a debate that seduces her elsewhere, out of basic principles. And that principle is indeed, first, the protection of the values that are Europe's own, and second, the protection of values such as solidarity and aid. I would like to call on all of us not to create artificial dilemmas in society - artificial dilemmas consisting of either helping Ukrajinec or Czech people. There's no such dilemma. Of course, the Czech Government is doing its best for Czech citizens, so it is also the Czech Government. But that does not rule out its maximum deployment at a time when a free state is attacked by an aggressor in an unprecedented way that we have not experienced in Europe since World War II. It is our duty to help and I am proud of the Czech Republic for managing this role. I therefore note that, of course, this resolution has full support for the Mayors' and Independent Members' Club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u7	Thank you, too. The President of the ANO Schillerová movement club is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, excelence. Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to say anything after President Zelenský's speech, those words were strong. Moreover, I am well aware that these are not only words, but also the reality with which all Ukraine has to live in recent months. But let me return for a moment to the very beginning of the war, to what is now forgotten. I would like to thank the President for his courage because he has proved to be the real leader of his country. And it is he who has a big part in the fact that Ukraine has resisted the first wave of insane Russian aggression. If you recall, at the beginning of the war, some media wrote that the war would be swift and the Russian aggressor would quickly reach its goal, whatever it was supposed to be. But then President Zelenskyj showed up. He performed decisively, gave his people courage, and became a role model for politicians. He was the one who showed the world that Ukrajinec are determined to fight for their country. But I must add that, like him, all Ukrajinec deserve our recognition, who have to prove their courage and their heroism every day. I am proud of people, our fellow citizens, who spontaneously helped Ukrajinec fleeing the war immediately. It was a huge upheaval. I wasn't surprised. We saw a similar wave of belonging two years ago, although it was a completely different situation. This time it was driven by the desire for power and, to a large extent, our historical experience. Many today carry the injustice and injustice of 1938 and 1968. Moreover, in 1968, the current situation has one common name - the aggressor. I would like to say that I am glad that it was our people who showed great solidarity with Ukraine, whether through refugees, with the help of the Ukrainian army, but, of course, with humanitarian aid. We all want to believe that the conflict will end as soon as possible. We all wish that Ukraine should once again live in peace and that the Russian aggression of the devastated country can begin to be restored. We will continue to help Ukraine, for we have repeatedly supported the government in its efforts as the largest opposition club. But it is also necessary to look for diplomatic solutions - to act, to act, to act, to act at the same time. All Europe must act if we do not want the war to last for years. We should stop thinking that only military force will end the conflict. Mr. President, but I really wish the whole of Ukraine a lot of strength, and that determination and courage do not leave them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u9	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Ženíšek, who has already signed up, will be prepared by Mr Bašta and should be followed by the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Let me express my support for the motion for a resolution in favour of TOP 09 and give the main reasons very briefly. Firstly, the Czech Republic - and it has been said here - has been helping Ukraine in the long term. They even belong to countries that have started helping as much needed material as weapons. It is not only Ukraine that sees us this way, as the President has said, but other states, our allies - the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the Baltic States, Poland and many others. I am proud that they feel this way about us, and we want it to continue to be that way, even in the coming days. Secondly, it is not Ukraine that started this war, it is someone else. Ukraine has been defending itself from the very beginning, facing great odds and it is clear that without our and other assistance it has no chance of succeeding. I don't know if we're all aware of the geographical size of Ukraine. At present, the front line is nearly 2,500 kilometers, of which, for thousands of kilometers, there are really fighting and fighting, which is about a distance from here from the House, from Prague to Paris. So it is clear that this is a very large area, and indeed, Ukraine cannot do it alone without help. [[12.30 hours]] We in TOP 09 believe that this is a front line between a free world and a dictator who has a different idea of the world, takes up territory and takes over because he thinks nothing will happen to him and because he can do whatever he wants. For this reason, we believe that Ukrajinec are actually fighting not only for themselves, but also for us and for other countries that do not share Vladimir Putin's idea or his idea of the world. And thirdly, if Ukraine stops fighting, it will cease to exist, at least it will lose much of its territory. If Russia stops fighting, the war will end. Ukraine is no different from other countries such as Germany, Spain, France, the Czech Republic. In this respect, he has the same right to his existence, to his autonomy, to his territorial integrity. Ukraine is not some temporary entity where Russia has a natural right. For this reason, we support this proposed resolution, and it is the minimum that we can do for Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Bašta is now ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the position of our MP. The SPD agreed to the House's resolution at an emergency meeting on 24 February this year, which condemned Russia's aggression in Ukraine. We did the same on April 5 when our fellow Members agreed to the resolution on the case of the murder of people in Buča. [[unintelligible]] In the context of this resolution, there is also a part that calls on the Czech Republic to participate in preparations for the provisions of the International Court of Justice for the Trial of Perpetrators of All Crimes committed in Ukraine. By supporting these resolutions, we consider our expression towards the Russian Federation and its aggression in Ukraine to be sufficient at present. We are pushing peace talks and ending this bloody conflict. We believe that the supply of weapons and ammunition to Ukraine only leads to an extension of the conflict that can continue to escalate. The SPD is rejecting efforts to involve the Czech Republic through the current government of Petr Fiala in a possible war conflict through further and further supplies of weapons and ammunition. For these reasons, we cannot support the House's resolution in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u13	Thank you. I will now ask Minister Jan Lipavský, who is already present with his speech. So far, this debate is about the last one to be logged in. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today's speech by President Zelenský before the Czech Parliament is indeed an extraordinary event. Allow me to express my admiration for the Ukrainian armed forces, political representation and the entire state apparatus, and especially for the citizens of Ukraine. Ukraine's bravery and commitment to brutal Russian aggression in recent months are extraordinary, and they convince us every day of the strength of Ukrainian society. The Czech Republic has always stood openly on the side of Ukraine. We have always supported its territorial integrity, its democratic and European direction. Ukraine has long been our traditional most important partner in development, humanitarian and transformation aid. Before that February 24, we participated in strengthening Ukraine's defence, we will continue to do so, and it is not only a Czech task, but it is a European task and a task for the whole democratic world, because each country, according to the UN Charter, has the right to defend and supply weapons and other material for its own defence in the attack. And that is why Ukrajinec need to defend their homes from barbarian Russian aggression, defend themselves against murder, rape or kidnapping into Russia, looting, destruction. Russian aggression denies all standards of international law and civilised coexistence. She turned Europe, turned the world. This is not only an attack on Ukraine, but also on all of Europe and its values on all of us. Therefore, logically, the Czech Republic participates intensively in strengthening Ukraine's defence capabilities and, of course, we also work on our allies and partners so that they continue to do this, to keep them going and possibly increase, because only strong Ukraine is able to defend itself against aggression. There are calls for negotiations with Putinův's regime, which, knowingly and for no reason, has unleashed war, but these are calls for continued aggression, because Putin does not want to act clearly at the moment. I would like to quote the Czechoslovak general of Russian origin Sergej Vojcechovský, who warned in 1938 about the shameful attempt to reconcile Hitler, and said: "There is no discussion of the state's borders, the border is defending itself." So calls for a ceasefire at all costs and pressure on Ukraine to take political or territorial concessions are counterproductive and, as a result, strengthen the imperial ambitions of the Kremlin regime. And for the same reason, we must also be very consistent in the continuation and implementation of other sanctions against Russia. Of course, Ukraine does not only need weapons, but also a vision, a vision of a better future after the war is over. That is why we are pushing for Ukraine to gain a European perspective and ideally to receive candidate status as soon as possible. European integration will give Ukraine stability and prevent and prevent further Russian attempts to reverse the country's democratic orientation. And before the war is over, we must also take care of war refugees. The Czech Republic does so, giving them access to health care, education, employment, social support, otherwise we cannot do so. And the political, but also material, humanitarian aid, the preparation of the reconstruction of Ukraine will be key elements of our Presidency in the European Union. We will take advantage of the fact that we will play a major role in Europe and thus support all these activities. I mentioned at the outset the courage, energy and determination of Ukrainian citizens who defend their country and, together with this, defend the values we believe in. And the values that are the basis of our civilization and the values that put a free man first, his rights, his options and his responsibilities, because only such a person through his free decisions then contributes to the prosperity and development of the entire society. And here we need to make it clear that President Zelenskyj has won free elections, unlike Putin, who regularly fakes them in his favor. And that is probably the most important difference between Ukraine and Russia. I am proud that the Czech Republic is among the states that express support for Ukraine and that it will continue to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u15	Thank you. Therefore, no one else is in the debate now, and no one else is doing so, so this is the end of the debate. Is there interest in final words? I will ask both the rapporteur and the appellant. [[No. It's not.]] This is not the case, so I will call my fellow Members and colleagues from the lobby because we will vote on the motion for a resolution. The plaintiff is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u16	Thank you, Madam President. In order to comply with everything that we have to do under the Rules of Procedure, I hereby refer to the motion for a resolution as I presented it at the beginning of the debate on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-004-148.u17	Thank you. There's an interest in checking out, which is why I'm asking all of you to log back in with your ID cards. I would remind you that we will vote on the motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on paragraph 25 of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - Support for the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the condemnation of the Russian Federation's war aggression - as the plaintiff, Mr Mark Výborný, was read here. The number of people present has settled. I therefore initiate the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled and ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 127, 155 Members and Members signed in for 137, against 17. The motion was accepted. Thank you and I conclude on this point. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] I thank both the rapporteur and the appellant once again. We're going back to the broken point number on the show.
