ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u1	4. Government bill on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services / House printing 160/ - first reading I just need to find out at what point this House press has been interrupted... So thank you, we are in a general debate. And I have here that, on 16 June, Mr Karel Sládeček made a motion to reject, and so we are currently in the general debate, where Petr Vrána is currently duly signed up for the general debate. I see here that it's factual - no, no, okay. So will I beg at this point - or does the rapporteur and the plaintiff still want a word at this point? Don't you need to? She does, okay. So I will first ask the plaintiff - Mr. Minister for Regional Development, Mr. Ivan Bartoš. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members. I would just like to respond, even though it has been a long time, to some of the contributions that were made in the general debate before the interrupted negotiations, that was June 16th. [[15.20 hours]] I am aware that the fulfilment of the obligations introduced by the Law on the promotion of low-emission vehicles will, of course, be difficult for the addressees of this obligation in a certain way. So it is essential, too, to stand up to this in a way that is manageable. It is important to note that the imposed obligations are not things that would result from any plenacy of the current or past government, but are based on European legislation, which we as a Member State have undertaken to respect, and I think that our priority should also be to be active against these commitments, to meet them, or at least to the maximum extent to try. The draft law in question is a pure transposition, a net transposition regulation in relation to Directive 2019/1161 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 amending Directive 2009/33 on the promotion of clean and energy efficient road vehicles and for which - and I think it is important - we are also dealing with this today - the transposition will be terminated on 2 August 2021 and the transposition period will expire. Since this did not happen, this is why the European Commission is now conducting proceedings against the Czech Republic for failure to fulfil this obligation and by issuing a reasoned opinion of 6 April 2022, this entered into the final phase, the prejudicial part of this procedure. The submission to the court is then followed, so if the Czech Republic does not accept this transfer and does not notify the Commission of the relevant transposition measures, then indeed - which has been extended until 6 September of this year at the request of the Czech Republic - the Commission may bring an action against the Czech Republic before the EU Court of Justice in accordance with Art. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. 3 The TFEU also included a proposal for the imposition of a financial penalty. Once this action is brought, if it is brought, the imposition of a financial penalty will no longer be necessary, regardless of the resulting outcome of the transformation route, and neither the fact that we have already started negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies does not in itself prevent the imposition of a penalty. On the question of the problems of switching to alternative vehicles, I would like to say that it is necessary to see the obligations introduced by the bill in another context. For example, there is already a government resolution from July last year that responded to the transposition deficit and introduced these obligations for the first period with effect from 2 August 2021, i.e. after the expiry of the transposition period, so that at present there is an obligation in question for almost a year in relation to public procurement contracting entities, which the Government's resolution could have committed. This is therefore directly applicable to the contracting entities subordinate to the members of the government, so that this is true and fulfilled, the contracting authorities are obliged, according to the Government's resolution, to report the number of low-emission vehicles they purchase, and then, according to these reported numbers, to see whether they fulfil the obligation or fulfil it from any greater extent than is required as a minimum. What is important to say is that purchases already made in this way, even for those contracting entities which do not have this government resolution, which are not directly subordinated, so all acquisitions that are, of course, will then be included in the total share. However, it is important to note that the European Commission does not consider the Government's resolution, which was here towards directly subordinate contracting entities as the implementation of the transposition of the directive and, given the substance of the matter under consideration, is irrelevant and does not fulfil it. I would also like to point out that, as the individual shares are set, there is always work with the individual classes when it comes to public transport and only concerns categories M3 class 1 and A for buses, which means that the obligation does not apply to interurban and long-distance buses. It is really set up to be a pure transposition, and it is also clearly calculated which purchases it concerns. I have also noted here, I think it was from Mrs Klára Dostálová, who drew attention to some contradiction that was with the Ministry of the Interior. He was already in the previous government, I think it was once when the draft law was submitted in 2020 and the second submission in 2021, in both cases in the previous parliamentary period the contradiction was removed by explanation and the argument was that it really had direct effects on the provision, or on the use of vehicles in particular by the services of the Ministry of the Interior or the Integrated Rescue System, which should be acquired in the same ratio, but it is not completely true, which with the Ministry of the Interior managed to clarify again. If these vehicles are, in any way, specially adapted for the purpose to be fulfilled, they fall within a derogation where the procurement does not have to be in proportion to those low-emissions, so that vehicles which are purchased on the basis of an exemption from the obligation to purchase them do not need to be in the procurement procedure. The contradiction concerned, for example, a certain section of these vehicles, only of course those cars that are in use, classic, so that the mandatory share of newly purchased vehicles applies, however, vehicles which are specially adapted for some purpose, whether they are fast service or special police cars, do not apply. I would like to conclude by stressing that the proposal tabled is indeed a proposal for transposition, and I would like to call it a minimalist standard. He therefore does not in any way tighten up the rules laid down in the directive and anticipates all the exemptions granted by the directive, which we have fully used in the transposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u3	I thank the appellant and the Minister for Regional Development. I will only say that the Minister was not here on 16 June and was properly represented by the Minister of the Environment Anna Hubáčková. We have now also approved at the meeting on 16 June that the rapporteur for first reading is Mr Ivan Adamec. Would you like to step forward, Mr rapporteur? Of course, I know you made a motion to extend the deadline by 40 days, and if it doesn't pass, to extend it by 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may respond, then I withdrew it and handed it to my colleague Kubíček, if I am well aware, on those 72 days. I would like to respond to the Minister's words and the debate that has taken place here. I think the biggest problem is that this directive is actually coming here to the approval process after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine and, at the same time, a growing energy crisis, where it raises a number of questions, a number of problems. Otherwise, I think that if there wasn't an energy crisis, if there wasn't a war in Ukraine, we have nothing to talk about today. It is, in a way, a logically follow-up proposal on Europe's green policy, on Green Deal, but I do not see the problem today that we are going to make an amendment to the Public Procurement Act in this area, with some percentage of the means of transport having to be powered by an alternative drive, but I rather ask myself that I feel that we should rather slow down in these matters, because first of all, energy prices are rising sharply and, above all, some of the energy we do not have at all, or may not have it at all. Then, of course, the question of the economy of the operation of these vehicles is, because every proper manager always calculates the cost of transport, and here, as you do the CNG car or the electricity, you just don't fit into those costs compared to the conventional diesel engines. I understand all this, I am not in favour of rejecting this proposal, but I think that a certain level of caution should be here. [[15.30 hours]] Rather, I expected the European Commission to think about these requirements and rethink some of its regulations that we must follow. But nothing like that has happened yet, and it seems to me that we are on the Titanik, which is going down gradually, and we are still playing here and pretending that nothing has happened and that everything will be covered in pink paint. Therefore, I personally am very skeptical of these regulations and their application to Czech national law. But I must say, I understand the Minister. I see the European Commission's warning of the initiation of proceedings as a serious threat. However, my old practice here in this building tells me that if we start a legislative process, the direct threat is no longer so serious. In the end we have almost around the corner, but we still have plenty of time. I think we're going to have to go back to that, because if we don't say "B" to "A," where we're going to take it, and if we want all of this from our citizens, we're going to get into a situation where we're all going to be surprised. That simply the degree of willingness to pay the increased costs will be until the company is well. If the situation deteriorates from the point of view of the cost of living, such as energy, food, we may find that citizens are going to start criticizing these regulations hard, and it can distract not only the Czech Republic but the whole European Union. I warn you before that, because, unlike some colleagues and colleagues here in this building, I believe that there is nothing better in terms of maintaining stability and peace in Europe, despite the problems we have with our membership in the European Union. There is nothing better, and it is still necessary to realise that the European Union's breakdown could also mean the collapse of entire societies, because the European Union did not come into existence as an economic pact. This is the face of the Treaty of Rome, but the European Union was created as a pact to preserve peace in Europe after the experience of two world conflicts, from which Europe came out badly damaged. So I'm warning you about it. However, I considered it necessary to draw your attention to the problems that will come up here with these applications of European directives that arose at a time when the problems were not here. The problem today is that energy is low, which is why it's so expensive. It started before the war, so that we could be very clear. Of course, the criticisms of common markets are appropriate. But it is important to remember that the Czech Republic is a relatively small country in terms of joint gas purchase and we simply cannot do this without a joint purchase within the European Union. But I just took a little turn. I just wanted to say that I am not at all excited about the application of this directive, not personally at all. I have definitely withdrawn my proposal here to extend the deadline for negotiations between first and second reading for 72 days, which I have withdrawn, however the proposal here fell again. But I will certainly not support the shortening of this deadline, because for me, it is an expression that this application of the directive is very difficult for me, and I would not allow you to suggest anything else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. I'm merely stating that I really have in my background material that the proposal to extend the deadline was made by you. If, as you said, Roman Kubíček or someone from the ANO movement member club presented it, I just want to make an announcement that if there is an extension, then I will need the plaintiff's approval as well. So, at this point, I am calling for a general debate. I also note that when we were in the general debate, at that point, someone was registered to a factual remark, but the manager did not say his name. It was also registered at that time with the priority right Mr. Jakub Michálek. Since we are in the general debate, at this point we have a factual remark from Mrs Klára Dostálová, so I will ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In fact, I would like to support all the words said by the chairman of the Economic Committee. We, of course, had quite a detailed debate on this material last time. I understand, of course, that the Minister could not have been here, he was properly represented. It's all right. I'd just repeat it again, but Ivan Adamec, through you, has actually said it. There is a huge problem in that the law in Section 4 gives specific percentage conditions for fulfillment by, for example, 2025. When we realize that the law still has to go through the Senate approval process, and so on, that means it will take effect in autumn or maybe January 2023, and there are conditions to purchase those low-emission vehicles in category M1, M2, N1, which are the ones that especially have municipalities, cities, regions and so on, from 30 percent to the end of 2025, we also have to realize that at present, when we start competing, there are simply no components on the market. We really are in a situation where it will be very difficult to achieve. The debate, Minister, was here about not calling for negotiations with the European Commission to take account of what is happening in the world, what is happening, of course, with the supplies, the components, the impossibility of getting some parts to postpone the law in time. No one disputes it as such, but reality really is on the ups and ups. I don't even want to figure out what that means to the community. Not only do they get the cars, but they have to have infrastructure to where the cars are going to be charged, and so on. I think that municipalities will now have completely different concerns with regard to the energy crisis and so on. So we just wanted to call for this - that is why the extension in these committees - to deal with the European Commission, whether these ideas, which the European Commission has by means of the regulation, are actually applicable until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u7	Thank you for keeping time. Now I would really like to make it clear with the rapporteur, because I really do have in the tapestry that you made a proposal to extend the deadline by 40 days, and if it doesn't pass, to extend it by 20 days. I take it you've now withdrawn this proposal in your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u8	Madam Vice-President, I'll repeat the mike here, with your permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I am withdrawing these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u9	Thank you. I merely advise that if this proposal were to be heard and heard by anyone, the appellant must agree to this as regards the extension of the deadline by more than 20 days. Then I will have to ask the appellant at that time, and if the appellant does not agree to this, there will be no vote on such a proposal. Mr Petr Vrána is now duly entered into the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to briefly highlight some important aspects of the amendment to the Act on the promotion of low-emission vehicles. The proposed draft law establishes the relevant European Union law and regulates the minimum share of low-emission vehicles in the award of public procurement contracts under the Public Procurement and Public Services Act under the Passenger Transport Public Services Act. The main principles of the draft law to implement the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union consist in establishing a requirement for the achievement of the designated minimum shares of so-called zero-emission clean vehicles and vehicles in the award of public contracts and in the procurement of public passenger transport services. These shares will have to be reached in specified periods of time, i.e. from the entry into force of the Act until 31 December 2025 and from 1 January 2026 to 31 December 2030 in the award of procurement contracts in the draft law of defined vehicles, and in the award of public contracts for the provision of specified services and public passenger transport services pursuant to Act No. 194/2010 Coll., on public passenger transport services and on the amendment of other laws. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Given that at the moment it is not possible to estimate whether or not the new objectives will be adopted, the petitioner decided not to transpose this provision and only subsequently to respond to the adoption or adoption of new European legislation in the form of an amendment. The petitioner finds no alternative here other than the adoption of a special implementation law. [[15.40 hours]] Since the obligation arising from the amendment to the Clean Vehicles Directive will be laid down by contracting authorities and contracting entities entering a sector contract in relation to a specified period of time and not in relation to the method of award of each individual contract, as is the case under the current version of the Clean Vehicles Directive, the authorisation to issue a government regulation cannot be used. Contracting authorities will be provided with new obligations which, in the view of the petitioner, can only be imposed by law. Nor does the petitioner find any systematic inclusion of a new transposition into the Public Procurement Act, since it is a procedural standard and is intended to include general rules on public procurement. It should therefore not include an adjustment to the mandatory acquisition of specified commodities. The option of not adopting the proposed legislation would expose the Czech Republic to a threat of proceedings and penalties for infringements from the point of view of European law. At the same time, the petitioner followed strictly the requirements arising from the amendment to the Clean Vehicle Directive without tightening them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u11	Thank you. Another one for the debate is Mr Kubíček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I probably wouldn't even be performing, but the Minister wasn't here last time, so I have some comments about that. The very first thing is, I asked here last time to recalculate any data for the mayors of the individual municipalities, what the future costs would be. I drew attention to two issues, it is the construction of infrastructure for low-emission vehicles, although after yesterday's increase in the price of electricity and future coal resources, I doubt it will be the low-emission sources if it is produced from coal. However, we must implement some European directive, it is some implementation. That's where we'd really need to know the future cargo for the mayors in those villages. I think it's everyone's interest, whether it's gonna be the state's support, whether there's any funding for it, whether the European Union will provide some funding for it, how much it'll cost the community itself, how much the streets will dig up, because not everything will probably be able to run through the air in the future, but first of all, it will be used to conduct electricity underground. Another thing is because this includes certain types of gas, LNG and the creation of certain storage stations, parking, transit through the city. Well, last but not least, it should probably affect certain depots and costs of individual repairs, upgrades and so on, because although electrical equipment does not use as many rotary components as standard diesel and petrol engines, there will of course be some wear. And the failure, the capacity and battery life really isn't sure today. So, Minister, I'd just like to ask you and your team to set up a view, a financial perspective, as far as it would affect, because the percentages are there, you know the way the communities are burdened today, where the electrification is and isn't. Of course, we talked about Prague, which uses trams and other cities. Some cities use trolleybuses, some cities have already purchased battery minibuses, for example, but there is still the majority of diesel buses, even though they are emission standards number 6 and their lifetime will be over within five to ten years. So I'd like that. And then there's the other thing. I would like to propose an extension of the time for committee discussions for 40 days and, alternatively, 20 days, because I need the rapporteur's approval for those 40 days. If he doesn't give it, I would, alternatively, extend it to 20 days, and I wouldn't be afraid of it at all, because we have a vacation ahead of us, and in the global, it's like we're not taking the time at the moment. So I think those 20 days are acceptable. Thank you for your word, and that was all on my part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u13	Thank you. I hereby register here a proposal for an extension of 20 or 40 days respectively. We'll discuss that at the end. And I'm asking, who else for the general debate? The Minister is interested. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u14	Thank you for your word. I'd like to react a little bit, and it's not in the sense of pouring what? Pitch, gas for the fire. She would have had the debate with the European Commission if we hadn't been two years late in the implementation process. The fundamental problem is that this implementation has already gone through the last government. It's just that there were no conflicts or 2020 or 2021 that didn't get into the House for discussion. The implementation didn't take place, and actually, in some way, the government, the previous government, at least partially tried to flirt or replace it with that government resolution that imposed those directly subordinate bodies or persons where the purchase was already going on. So he's the space to discuss with the committee when we're with something a year after it's supposed to be in effect, like it's not completely, it's not quite easy. And actually, the fact that we're in a situation right now where the standard resources we used to are either partially unavailable or at a high price level, whether it's the gas mentioned, because the gasification of public transport was one of the roads once. I don't know, Minister Stanjura is no longer here. Opava, his city, I assume where he was involved, but it could be Pardubice, where they have a three-thirds trolleybus transport gas-fired, obviously they're in the hybrid diesel-powered model for the existing transport, plus the things that go on the gas. So I'd be very careful with the argument. First of all, as we're catching up on some of the rest, we're totally on edge. I have the Foreign Minister and, of course, we are dealing with the European Commission, and some feedback, as they stand up to it. It doesn't look very positive twice, because the implementation or the transposition should have been done long ago. Just about the electromobility. So I don't think that the actual consumption costs of one car will ever exceed, but now I don't know if it's presumptuous, the price of the fuel that they are. Like the mile for electricity will be more expensive than the mile for gas or gas. But even from the perspective of future development, the electromobility will be significantly cheaper in the operation. Just, and you mentioned it, I got the numbers from the CTU, I'd like to hear your reaction. And you mentioned that, a smaller number of components, the battery life, some secondary way of using them. I don't think that's the cost that goes beyond that. Otherwise, the directive concerns, let's say, over-the-counter contracts. So if the municipality gets one or two cars a year, this obviously doesn't apply to it at the moment. As I said, the possibilities of the appeal are significantly, significantly limited in terms of what the Czech Republic has already had in the absence of this directive, or in the absence of the transposition historically towards the European Commission. And infrastructure issues -- well, it's infrastructure construction, and now let's make a distinction. This does not concern citizens and their vehicles. So when we were talking about it, and maybe Prague already went this way, that there should be electric car chargers here in the public lighting columns and really publicly available charging stations in the parking lot, we're actually talking about charging stations that support the infrastructure of the public transport or the vehicle park of the institution. So it's not the infrastructure, even if it's needed for the civic amenities, so it's not the wide one where you can stop in the city and load up your vehicle. It's because it's some kind of depot, or it's some kind of parking lot for the institution. You asked about the subsidies, or I don't really have a share here for which community, but I can also calculate it from some qualified estimate, but I'm looking at these individual financial instruments. In local development, it is normally the Regional Operational Programme of the IROP, in addition to transport, I think that the Pardubice not only in the area of purchase, but also in the switchboards draw the money in the actual purchase of hydrogen-powered vehicles. For the public sector there are 600 million, I think it is within the framework, through the Ministry of Environment middle in the national recovery plan. In the modernisation fund, the first calls should be drawn up in the middle of this year. [[15.50 hours]] So there are also relevant programs, both in the programming period 2021, 2027 per MMR and otherwise there is the whole just transition fund, sorry, the Modernization Fund, which was expected to be there to be 250 billion, will be there 400. Of the nine pillars, I would rather have some more, a large part is devoted to precisely the time of the transfer via gas, a large part is there for the environmentalization of public transport, the money from this fund will also be released. So it's kind of a mix of tools that can actually be used to achieve a goal that isn't absolute, yes, it's a share of newly purchased. Nor is it a reflection that at this time you have a duty to change a third of the fleet you use or provide for public transport. So the extensive interpretation that I may have seen in the media somewhere isn't entirely true. Of course, it is not without any demands on the budget, as well as on the construction of related infrastructure, whether it is some kind of gaseous propulsion or, for example, electromobility. And you wanted to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u15	Thank you, but I have two applications before Mr Kubíček - Mrs Peštová, Mr Adamec and then Mr Kubíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u16	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'd rather follow up on the material side. When I was still working at the Ministry of Environment, we tried to push alternative cars into the state administration. At the time, it was the government's order when we wanted 25 percent of the total fleet to each ministry with its portfolio to have the alternative cars. I'm not gonna tell you how we turned out, how the peasants at Chlumec, it was awful to enforce it, because some ministry had one alternative car, another had nothing. So we were really trying to negotiate it, to make an amendment, or we were trying to enforce a new government regulation, with the fact that there were big talks with the Ministry of Regional Development - you might have up-to-date information - because it was fundamentally opposed, but it was mainly based on the UOHS, which said we couldn't. At that time it was public administration or public administration, it didn't go to municipalities, and they already told us, if we wanted to expand it and we want to extend it to municipalities as such, we can't order a small village with a sum of five cars, so that one of them would be an alternative, because we just wanted 25 percent. So that's where we bumped into the fact that it was impervious through the UOHS. I don't know if you had any dealings with the UOHS, I'd be quite interested, because we didn't break it back then, because when we wanted to make 25 percent, when I have 100 percent, four cars have to be one of the alternative, and for those small municipalities it's an incredible cost. [[Drive]] So if I may ask if you've gone in this direction as well and what feedback you have or feedback to the UOHS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u17	Thank you. Another, with fact, is Mr Adamec, then Mr Kubíček and then Mrs Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u18	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I will repeat again what is the biggest problem. The biggest problem is money, let's face it. I can still hear subsidies, subsidies, subsidies, but if something's going to work within the market environment, it can't be subsidies. And the problem is that today, for example, the alternative drives have either a discount on excise duty or no excise duty. Electrics can be solved differently, we dealt with it so that we have directly wires from the power plant to charge buses, but it was all in the time before the crisis when we expected some normal standard development, and not broken energy prices, as they came now. And we all want to have nice nature, we all know that we need alternative drives, but now the question is whether we should push it so hard. And that is also the problem with this directive, whether it should be this fast or should we slow down at this point. And we more careful, who have experience, say, slow down before it's too late. Let's slow down, let's slow down, because the idea is right, but realization is economically suicide. And if we think we're gonna solve this with subsidies, I have to say, one day, those subsidies are gonna end. There's not gonna be any more subsidies, because we're not even gonna be able to raise it, the subsidy money. If it doesn't work on its own, it just can't exist. I understand that there is a need for subsidies in the early days, it needs to be supported, that is in all areas of human activity. At first, she had to put money into it to make it work, and if it did, it would survive - if it didn't, it would die. [[Company]] But so far, I just don't see the light at the end of the tunnel because money to make it work in a market environment just doesn't work in this business. And if we don't say it and push it - I thought Fit for 55 would slow down or this program would stop because something else is Green Deal by 2050, that's a lot of time, but there's not much time here, and we're pretending like nothing happened - and it pisses me off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u19	Thank you. Mr Kubíček, Mr. Kubíček, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u20	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Well, Minister, I'm sure I'm not against you for what you said, I'm just saying one thing. Today, the cost of individual vehicles is about twice the normal petrol or diesel vehicle. And why did the municipalities buy it? Because they got subsidies. In České Budějovice we bought and made two lines of electromobility within small buses. It's delicious, it's wonderful, but it's just done on the basis of the subsidy that came up with it. To do that, you have sustainability, mileage, when it crashes, two vehicles crash, which can happen, then you have to catch up. I'm not gonna say it has to be driven at night to make it work. And in the global, each of those mayors should know the future cargo, because the mayors have their buildings, their streets, their facilities, schools, kindergartens, they have to put money in there, and now that something takes away this alternative, they have to be prepared for it. Either that - Ivan Adamec has said it well here, through the President - or he will not. And then what do we do? Here's some paper to tell us how to do it. If we can't do it, we won't do it. And now I'm curious in the fall, and I'm curious to know how we're gonna stop people from drowning coal and wood in the stove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u21	Thank you. Another Mrs Dostálová and then Mr Bartoš, both factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u22	Thank you again for the floor. I'd just like to clarify what the minister here said that there's no need to be so extensive in the media. I'd just like to ask, I'd warn a little bit about this, about this statement, because we have to do it as a republic - 29.7 percent. And if everyone takes your words seriously, they're gonna wait for the other guy to do it, and they're not gonna buy it, because of course if one of us buys 10 percent in quotes and the other one buys 20, we're never gonna make it to the Republic. And I'm asking if that's what we're thinking from the state's position, that we're going to let the municipalities buy it first, and then maybe if they lean to the state like that, or how we're going to do it so that we can make almost 30% happen. So I don't think that's what you said. On the contrary, I think everyone needs to take this seriously so that we can get to the 30% of the Republic at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u23	Thank you. Minister Bartoš with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u24	I would just like to react quickly, perhaps Mrs Dostálová misunderstood me. I've been trying to talk about a lot of myths and half-truths in public space. I was talking about the exceptions. For example, it turned out to be all buses, but it doesn't apply to the long-distance buses. There are specified classes that these are new purchases, that it's for the above 5.5, so if the village buys one or two cars, it doesn't apply here. So in this respect, I was just describing that of course it has some costs, but it is not that a given date will result in a complete renewal of the fleet, diesel and petrol, and we simply have to have a third of the existing park here in low-emission or in future emission-free vehicles. And only the second thing about Mrs Peštová. This was the statement by the UOHS on the Government's regulation that government regulations as an instrument cannot be applied to those not subject to individual ministers or ministers. On the contrary, this transposition then works this way and has passed from the ÚOHS without any complains, expressions or contradictions. So that was related to the regulation. And one more thing. Even the transposition is built so that we're not trying or even the transposition isn't trying to say what you're supposed to buy, that you have to do it, but in what way. Therefore, even the scale - in the first stage there are those low-emissions, then there is talk of emission-free, but as has been shown in public discourse, the combustion engine may also be emission-free if within five years the technology is such that synthetics will be processed, not classic oil products. So it's just that the directive really is in order to apply even to those buyers, self-governments, which, of course, couldn't be applied to the full extent of that interpretation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u25	Thank you. In fact, Mrs Peštová is reporting with the response. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u26	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I told you, I was one of the co-authors, but the racket that tried to drag the government's order forward. But I would rather go back to what Mr Adamec, through Mr President, said. I fully agree with what you said. I also agree that it seems very illogical to me what is happening in the world right now. We say, in 2035 we end up with cars on fossils. We all thought no one could imagine it, but we're done. Until then, we want to switch to some kind of emission-free or low-emission. In essence, we all know that the most expensive - now thank God that Parliament has agreed to gas and agreed to the core that it is a clean source or, as a matter of fact, an emission-free source, it is not a clean, but an emission-free source - but to me, if we have all realized where we are going at all. We all know that hydrogen is the most expensive to produce, that it's electrolysis, that when it comes to production, it's one of the most expensive, so we're going to give subsidies to make it. We're gonna give subsidies so we can drive it at all. What's that? I don't understand anymore. I feel like I'm in a mental hospital. I'll buy a car. I'll go to the gas station. I'll grab a plate. I'll pay. I'll leave. And now we're gonna spend incredible money making this car even happen. To buy it, we're gonna grant it. Then we'll give him a grant to drive the car. I mean, we're crazy. It's not normal, this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u27	Thank you and with the de facto Mr Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u28	Thanks again for the word. I don't want to push it anymore. I think that's what's on the committee. That's why I gave 20 days when nothing happened. We're on vacation, and nothing's gonna happen. However, I was intrigued by the emission-free fuel here. I read it two days ago that they're starting to produce and develop it, so it's gonna be great when they develop it, but they don't know when. They don't know. And the other thing that is-- it's just a matter of the capacity of the charge. And Mrs Peštová, through Mr President, has moved on, she has already gone into that personal electromobility. This isn't about that. This law is actually about public transport that works. I was able to imagine a certain type of electromobility, too, but first of all, I was thinking about social services, work offices, their visits, where they were driving that car and they needed to get to a client, that's just what I thought. But everyone around here seems to know exactly what the claim is. And we've got a former traffic manager sitting here, I'm not gonna name it, he sure knows what kind of cargo it's gonna bring for the transport company and who pays the transport company - not the citizens who go there, you would have made the price completely crazy, but the city that the transport company subsidizes. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u29	Thank you, and there is no more factual comment. And I ask, is anyone still interested in speaking in the general debate? No one, therefore, is ending the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word? Mr. Secretary? No? Is that what I'm asking the rapporteur? Nobody. At this point, I have a motion for rejection, which was made by Mr Karel Sládeček on 16 June, which we will therefore be voting on at this time, so I will call on my fellow Members from the lobby. Yes, I have an application for check-out, we can log in. And I will vote once again on the rejection of the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? Voting 11, registered 131, for 7 against 78. Result: rejected. We shall therefore continue to address the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see the rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u30	Mr President, since this is a law on public procurement, I think it is for another committee, for internal administration, self-government or whatever the committee is called, I apologise, and we as an economic committee will, of course, take it as a second committee, that is what I say in the second part of my statement. So I think that this is really the issue, it's the law on public procurement, on a committee other than economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-004-004.u31	But then the proposal is, what committee? [[From the diaper: for public administration.]] For the public administration. So I have here a proposal that we will vote on proposing the commandments of the Public Administration Committee as a guarantee committee. I'm putting it to a vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 12, registered 136, for was 132, against no one. Result: accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration as a guarantee committee. At this point, therefore, we have no further proposal for the next committee. The business guy's paying? Deal, yes, so the economic committee pays. And at this point, I am voting on the next committee as an economic committee. I hereby initiate the vote. Who is the next committee for the Economic Committee? Who's against it? Voting 13, registered 136, for was 134, against no one. The result was accepted. And does anyone else have another motion for a commandment to the next committee to discuss? I don't see any more. At this point, we will still have to deal with proposals to extend the deadline. I have here a proposal of 40 days, or 20 days. And if I'm evaluating it correctly, it must be 40 days with the agreement of the plaintiff, so I'll start with the 40 days and ask the plaintiff if he agrees? [[I disagree.]] Yes, then we will vote on Mr Kubíček's proposal by 20 days. So once again, it's a 20-day extension proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? [[The voting device doesn't work.]] There's no vote? I'm not good at it either, but I've got dozens and dozens of people jumping up here with a point of fact. That's not how something works here. So we'll vote again. I'll check you all out at the moment, we can log in. And then we will vote again on the extension of 20 days. So I'm going to erase all the actual ones here, which I'm asking you to bear, there's about 20, maybe even more. [[16.10 hours]] I will repeat again, we will vote on an extension of 20 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Voices from the O.R.:]] Well, at this point, we can vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 14 registered 136, for 53, against 27. Denied. That concludes the discussion of this point, we can move on to the next point. In the meantime, I will also apologize to Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, from 15.45 to 17 hours for work reasons. Initiating next item number
