ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u1	79. Government bill on pan-European personal pension product and amending related laws (Pan-European personal pension product law) /German press 61/ - Second reading The proposal submitted shall be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura for the applicants. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u2	Hello, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. The submitted printing is quite simple. He was presented here in the last term, and the new government hasn't made any changes to him. This is a necessary adaptation of our legal order to the regulation on pan-European personal pension product. This Regulation establishes this product. It is a new financial product that can serve interested parties to have a new type, a new choice to provide for pensions and old age. This product does not replace it, it does not unite the existing products, they all pay. The time for adaptation will run out on 22 March 2022. For example, insurance companies, banks or investment firms may offer this product, so that they may have the character of an insurance product, a deposit or an investment product. Most of the rights and obligations are directly contained in that regulation. Our adjustment only answers some questions, such as who will have supervision and so on. If I have the correct information, this proposal has been discussed by the Committee on Budgets without adopting or proposing any amendment to this press so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 61/1. I ask now that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u4	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I will read you the budget committee resolution. We discussed it at the 5th meeting of January 19th this year. The resolution was: "The Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's bill on a pan-European personal pension product and the amendment of related laws should be approved." I think I'm gonna limit myself to hoping that we'll approve today, that we'll get to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. So am I opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it? I'm not registering any applications... Mr. Chairman of the Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u6	Thank you. Dear government, dear colleagues, colleagues. As something called pan-European, it makes us feel a little strange in advance, and we need to look at every such thing in a more specific way. From the first analysis we made in this law as a SPD movement...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u7	Mr President, I apologize for entering into your speech, but I will ask my colleagues who want to discuss you to go to the lobby to make sure that everyone who is in the hall understands what President Fiala is saying. Thank you for your kindness. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u8	Thank you, Mr President. From the first analysis that we have made, it is evident to us that the Czech Republic does not need such a pan-European personal pension product yet and that it is only about implementing some supranational law, some directive that simply gives us some possibility. I am convinced that the Czech Republic needs completely different things, that it needs Czech pension reform, which will apply to all seniors, all pensioners, and that this is, of course, the most important thing for us. But let's see what the aim of the draft law is in the Czech legal order. It's regulation, it's written right here at first. It is a regulation and has the task of harmonising a set of essential characteristics, for example in terms of the minimum content of investment policy contracts, changes in the provider or cross-border provision and portability, including several discretions, such as the accumulation phase, the payoff phase, the provision of information. The Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The aim of the legislation is to adapt the rule of law to that Regulation. That's exactly what I said. It is the implementation of a regulation where we are obliged to implement it, and if we do not implement it, even if it does not bring us anything - just a possibility, we do not even intend to introduce it - it will cost us money on fines. The aim of the regulation itself is to lay the foundations for a safer, more cost-effective and transparent market for voluntary pension savings managed on a pan-European scale. The regulation is also intended to help address the demographic crisis, supplement existing pension products and promote the cost-effectiveness of personal pension products by providing suitable opportunities for long-term investment of personal pensions. Furthermore, the aim of the regulation is to increase capital and direct it to European long-term investments in the real economy, to offer an extended product function so that participants benefit from a simple, safe and cost-effective personal pension product while at the same time being able to choose from different types of providers of pan-European personal pension product, and to promote cross-border provision and portability. [[10.20 hours]] I believe, as the bill here says, it's clear, transparent, it's in our favor, it's amazing and especially safe, so that it's all properties that are at least debatable, and I'm convinced that it's written as if some commercial insurance company is tempting you to insure yourself with it, with them being the best, the safest, and that if you save there, nothing will happen to your savings. It is also about how they are able to declare security to us by saving money there in the pan-European way, after some time, after a crisis, whether financial, social or otherwise, whether they simply remain available from the pan-European society. I think the security issue is at least debatable. What are the implications of this bill? The Regulation provides that "conditions relating to the accumulation phase of national sub-accounts shall be determined by Member States except where they are provided for in this Regulation. These conditions may include, in particular, the age limit for starting the accumulation phase, the minimum duration of the accumulation phase, the maximum and minimum amount of contributions and their continuity. The regulation therefore gives Member States scope to define certain conditions for the accumulation phase of the product, even in the context of possible tax incentivities. Thus, any impact on the state budget can be expected in connection with setting the conditions for tax aid, due to the incentive of citizens to postpone old-age funds. However, demand for the product alone cannot be anticipated at this time." Therefore, no quantified estimates of these impacts, in other words, nor the impact on the state budget are quantified in this report. We do not know how much it will cost us, and we also do not know how many people will be convinced of this pan-European personal pension product. What will be the impact on the business environment? "The legislation in question may have positive effects on the business environment in the sense of new future business opportunities for potential providers. Entities that do not have an interest in providing, for example because of the administrative complexity associated with the change of provider or with the creation and management of national sub-accounts, will not be exposed to these potential negative effects. Smaller financial institutions entitled to provide this pan-European personal pension product will not be disadvantaged by the bill' - which is another point, I think one of the few positive points where the bill has no impact at all on local authorities, nor does it have any social consequences. "Consumer impact. Since it is not possible to interfere with the organisation of national pension systems, the aim of introducing a pan-European pension product is neither to replace nor to harmonise existing national pension systems of individual Member States.' So it is explicitly written that it is simply a product that has nothing to do with the Czech pension system, does not help it, but does not harm it to be correct, and it is a product that stands here in itself, which means that the money that Czech taxpayers or seniors would save would, of course, go somewhere other than Czech banks or Czech pension funds, but would accumulate in some other fund outside the Czech Republic. "The product referred to is designed to provide participants with an additional option to postpone old-age funds and may be offered by a wide range of financial institutions. Pan-European pension product will be offered, for example, by insurance companies, banks or investment companies, so by nature it can be an insurance product, a deposit or an investment product. Czech pension companies will not offer this project because Czech supplementary pension savings are not harmonised by European law. Thus, the effects on consumers can be assessed positively given the extension of consumer options to exploit the variability of pension products.' Let's look at the general part of this law. The reason for submitting the bill is the obligation of the Czech Republic, and now please listen, "adapt the Czech rule of law to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union." This means, once again, that is one of the most important sentences of this regulation and the directive that the reason for submitting a bill is not to do something good for Czech citizens so that they can save on old age so that someone can guarantee them some deposit they will need in old age and know that it will be secure, but I will read that sentence once again: "The reason for submitting a bill is the Czech Republic's duty to adapt the Czech rule of law to the regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union." It is also a sentence for journalists, who are often kept out of context, when we simply - when we say that we are subordinate to the European Union with everything, that we are obliged to adapt and implement their regulations and directives, because the European Union is not a state and cannot pass laws, it only issues regulations and directives and we are obliged to implement them into the Czech rule of law - sometimes even citizens do not understand that this is simply an obligation of the Czech Parliament, which was created by the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, where the Czech rule of law is subject to the rule of law of the European Union. "The aim of the regulation is to lay the foundations for a safer, more cost-effective and transparent market for voluntary pension savings managed on a pan-European scale. The regulation is also intended to help address the demographic crisis, supplement existing pension products and promote the cost-effectiveness of personal pension products by providing suitable opportunities for long-term investment of personal pensions. The aim of the regulation is also to increase capital and its orientation to European long-term investments in the real economy." That's also an important sentence. The money that people will save, which they will save in this way, means a pan-European personal pension product, they will go to the European Union, and they will actually serve for European long-term investment in the real economy. This means that they will continue to lend to individual states, perhaps with some interest, and from that interest there will be this pan-European personal pension product. This means what the Czech Republic should do and should have pension funds as large economies have it, such as the United States of America, so we will give the money to the European Union and they will invest and refund interest to the Czech seniors. [[10.30 hours]] "The offer of an extended product function so that participants benefit from a simple, safe and cost-effective personal pension product while at the same time choosing from different types of providers of pan-European personal pension product and promoting cross-border provision and portability of pan-European personal pension product. In view of the fact that the current legislation does not fully comply with all the requirements defined by the regulation, it is necessary that the Czech legal system be adapted accordingly to the individual provisions of the regulation." So again, in the next paragraph, the first sentence I would like to repeat - I think we should read these sentences here every morning before the House begins, because it is important for everyone to realize this: "Since the current legislation is not fully in line with all the requirements" - the requirements that are defined by the regulation - "it is necessary that the Czech rule of law be adapted accordingly to the various provisions of the regulation." So no one elected by the European Commission - the unelected European Commission, appointed by the European Commission, will write us regulations and directives - regulations that are necessary to be adapted to the Czech rule of law accordingly. At the same time, the regulation contains several discretions - for example, Member States determine certain conditions related to the accumulation phase of national sub-accounts. These conditions may include, in particular, the establishment of an age limit for the start of the accumulation phase, the minimum duration of the accumulation phase, the maximum and minimum amount of contributions and their continuity. So nothing de facto. This is also related to possible tax incentivism. The adaptation of the regulation is envisaged by the adoption of the Act on pan-European personal pension product and the amendment of related laws. In particular, financial institutions authorised to provide a pan-European pension product are among the entities concerned to which the variants considered will have an impact. (a) credit institutions authorised in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament; (b) insurance undertakings authorised in accordance with Directive of the European Parliament; (c) investment firms authorised in accordance with the Directive; (d) investment companies or management companies under the Directive. That is, I have listed here who will be able to provide this pan-European pension product, with the fact that, of course, it must comply with the directive given by the European Union and those entities must be allowed, so if it is an entity that does not have good relations, good ties, it will only be Czech, so it can also happen that it will not be authorised by the European Union and will not be able to provide these products. Furthermore, financial institutions are entitled to distribute this pan-European personal pension product, as well as the Czech National Bank - new competences of the financial market supervisor. The aim of this bill is to comply with the legislation of the Czech Republic and the European Union on the basis of the corresponding adaptation of the regulation. This is so incredible! I would say that the aim of this bill should be to provide Czech seniors with pensions, pensions, when they worked for 50 years and then they should have a pension or pension. This is what the Pan-European pension product should serve to do, but it says here that the proposed legislation aims to comply with the legislation of the Czech Republic and the European Union on the basis of the corresponding adaptation of the regulation. The proposed legislation aims to implement European legislation into the Czech rule of law so that it is consistent with European regulation. So not a word about the fact that this amendment is here to make Czech pensioners better off, to save themselves something, to have other options to improve their pension after 50 years of work. There's no such thing. There's no such thing! I repeat once again: "The proposed legislation aims to implement European legislation into the Czech rule of law so that it is consistent with European regulation. In the event of inaction, there is a risk of initiating infringement proceedings of European Union law by the European Commission, as this is the implementation of European legislation.' Please, I think this is a sentence that I must read again for journalists: 'In the event of inaction, there is a risk of initiating infringement proceedings by the European Commission, as it is about implementing European legislation'. Just don't say a word about it helping a pensioner in the Czech Republic, if it's better for us, but on the other hand, there's a threat that if we don't do it, we'll get tickets and pay like we're sick. And I could explore it further, but personally, it is enough for me to know how I will act in the vote on this bill. I have made a pledge to the Member here and promised the Czech Republic and Czech citizens, so it is very clear to me. There is not a word about Czech citizens and the Czech Republic and how I should behave as an MP that I have to vote for the good of the Czech Republic and Czech citizens according to my best conscience and consciousness. It says here I have to vote to implement, and if I don't vote, we're gonna get a fine. So that certainly doesn't tie me to anything important. That was all I had so far. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sure I'll be back to that bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u9	Thank you. That was Mr Radim Fiala in the general debate, and I have another one entered in the general debate - Mr Jan Hrnčíř. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to sum up a little bit what actually preceded this law, the discussion of how it was actually created. To begin with, I would just like to say that this is further proof of the respect that the European Commission treats its Member States, because pension insurance is a product that is not harmonised by the European Union, by the European Commission, which means that it is not possible to adopt directives that would be implemented into our legal order, so the European Commission has decided to direct it. That means it's a regulation on a pan-European personal pension product. He's not worried about what's harmonised, what's not, but we're just gonna order it, and that's it! The European Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on pan-European product on 29 June 2017. In the justification of the draft regulation, it stated that the proposed legislation aims to lay the foundations for a safer, more cost-effective and transparent market for voluntary pension savings managed on a pan-European scale. In an article published in the professional magazine Insurance... Sorry... More about it is written in an article from which I, too, drew in the so-called Insurance Horizon. According to the European Commission, the fragmentation of the European market prevents providers of personal pension products from maximizing diversification of risks and introducing innovation and economies of scale. According to the European Commission, the regulation is also intended to help address the demographic crisis, complement existing pension products and promote the cost-effectiveness of personal pension products by providing suitable opportunities for long-term investment of personal pensions. Furthermore, the aim of the regulation is to increase capital and direct it to European long-term investments in the real economy. The Pan-European pension product is intended to offer extended product functions so that participants benefit from a simple, safe and cost-effective personal pension product and, at the same time, they can choose from different types of providers. Cross-border provision and portability of the product should also be encouraged. Given that the organisation of national pension systems cannot be interfered with, the European Commission has proposed a voluntary regime in the sense of creating its offer and voluntary selection of participation to complement existing national systems. The proposal thus does not replace or harmonise existing national pension systems, but is intended to enable individuals to make use of the offer of a new voluntary framework for pension savings, with the aim of ensuring that they are adequately protected. The aim is also to move more household savings from traditional instruments such as deposits to capital markets. [[10.40 hours]] I confess that I really do not see the added value in this because of the national products... and since the European market is uniform, foreign products can also be used, I really do not see them there. As regards the negotiation of the draft regulation, the negotiations took about two years, when on 19 June 2018, a proposal was submitted to the so-called Permanent Representatives Committee to the European Council, which was the starting text for the Austrian Presidency for the launch of trialogues. In December 2018, the agreement was reached within the framework of political trialogues, the compromise text of the proposal was approved as an item without discussion at the meeting of the Permanent Representatives Committee on 13 February 2019. And after the lawyers' meeting, the finalization of the translations proposal awaited formal approval by the Council. It was then adopted by the European Parliament on 4 April 2019 when it was published in the Official Journal of the EU at the end of June 2019. At the beginning of the discussion of the proposal, it was necessary to clarify and discuss certain aspects in the Council Working Group, in order to make it clear to everyone at all how a product should function in practice according to the European Commission, because few people really saw the need for this product there. In particular, it was the issue of so-called sub-accounts, possible tax aspects, investment strategies and any related issues regarding the change of the provider, the transfer of funds, the conditions for the payout phase and others. The European Commission has also drawn up quite extensive work examples of its intention for how such a pan-European pension product should work in practice, for example when transferring funds, changing investment strategy and paying from subaccounts for different periods according to the conditions of each Member State. The proposed obligation for pan-European pension product providers to ensure the opening of a sub-account for all Member States, in the event of a participant's request, has triggered a wide-ranging discussion of the dreaded cost of this solution and therefore a real obstacle to entry into the market for smaller providers. The sub-account means ensuring compliance with the national conditions of the Member State for the pan-European pension product as well as for the tax advantage provided. Now, what was the result of the negotiation and what was actually approved, what is the pan-European pension product? According to the preamble, this is to be the ordered product of the unemployed pension insurance of individuals to which the participant of this product voluntarily commits. It is intended to serve a long-term accumulation of capital, while the possibilities of early withdrawal should be limited and may be sanctioned. Article 2 of the Regulation contains both the definition of a personal pension product and the definition of a pan-European pension product. This must be provided only by a financial undertaking eligible under Article 6 of this Regulation under a Pan-European Pension Product Agreement and must be registered in accordance with the Regulation. The idea of a pan-European pension product is based on the fact that the participant does not have to change the provider or the product when moving within the EU and could ideally benefit from the selected product in the Member State where he is currently living and working. This means the so-called portability service. If a participant of this product has already to change the provider, that is, if it cannot secure the required sub-account for the Member State, the regulation regulates the conditions of the change. In the field of product portability, which is the main advantage of a newly conceived private pension product, he acknowledged, however, the proposal for a substantial narrowing and what to do with the obligation of providers to secure the sub-account for each Member State. The European Commission has proposed to ensure that the sub-account is opened for all Member States at the request of the participant. However, in the resulting text, the provider of this pan-European pension product will be obliged to secure a sub-account for at least two Member States within three years of the application of the regulation. For each sub-account for the Member State concerned, the conditions for the so-called accumulation and pay-out phase of that product shall apply. Where a member of a pan-European pension product changes his place of residence, he will be able to request the opening of a new sub-account within the framework of his pension product, the provider will be obliged to inform the participant free of charge of the conditions for the sub-account of that Member State within that product. However, the participant will still be able to contribute to the last open sub-account. However, he may not be able to use the tax incentive elements of the Member State where he moved. The provider of a pan-European pension product is obliged to provide the participant with a recommendation explaining what is more advantageous for him. If the provider is unable to secure the opening of a new sub-account for the corresponding Member State, the participant must be able to choose whether to change the provider free of charge or to continue to contribute to the latter open sub-account. Providers will be able to offer up to six investment options, including the so-called basic pension product, which is some standard investment option. All investment options must be designed on the basis of a guarantee or risk reduction technique. Providers who cannot provide guarantees under the relevant sectoral rules may offer this pension product with a guarantee only on the basis of cooperation with credit institutions or insurance undertakings. Under certain conditions, the participant will be able to change the investment option chosen free of charge as referred to in Article 44. The basic pension product, as provided for in Article 45, is a safe product designed on the basis of a guarantee for capital payable at the start of the pay-out phase and, where appropriate, during the pay-out phase or on the basis of a risk reduction technique consistent with the objective of enabling the participant to recover the capital. The Regulation provides for a technical standard specifying the minimum criteria to be met by risk reduction techniques. Different types of pension product, as well as different providers and differences between their prudential regime, will have to be taken into account. Providers may offer this pension product to cover geometric risks. Coverage of geometric risks may vary between sub-accounts. It must be provided in accordance with the relevant sectoral legislation and those pension product providers who are not insurance undertakings can only offer them in cooperation with it. The participant will be able to change the chosen investment option free of charge under certain conditions. The regulation set the upper limit of costs and charges for a basic pension product by not exceeding 1 per cent of the accumulated capital per year. One or more forms of benefits, the so-called rent, a one-off payment, a gradual drawdown or a combination of these forms, may be paid to participants from the pension product. The participant chooses the form of payment at the conclusion of the pension product contract and also if it requires the opening of a new sub-account. The form of payment may vary between sub-accounts. Under certain conditions, a participant may change the form of payment one year before the start of the payment or at the start of the payout phase at the change of the provider. Where a provider receives a request for change, it shall provide the participant with clear information on the financial impact of its decision, in particular with regard to the national incentives which may apply to existing sub-accounts. In the case of a basic pension product, the provider is also obliged to offer the participant a personal retirement plan concerning the use of savings capital in sub-accounts, as referred to in Article 60 of the Regulation. [[10.50 hours]] So what will this pan-European pension product follow? Article 3 of the Regulation lays down the applicable rules for the registration, creation, distribution and supervision of a pan-European pension product, specifying that the relevant sectoral legislation of the European Union, including delegated and implementing acts and the legislation adopted by the Member States in their implementation, and the provisions adopted by them to implement the pan-European pension product of the Regulation, shall apply to matters not covered by the Pan-European pension product itself. Although it is a regulation, Member States are free to lay down conditions for the areas concerned, in particular for the savings and pay-out phases. And other national provisions that will apply to the pension product, especially tax regulations. So who can provide this pension product and how can it be registered in this product? This is provided for in Article 6 of the Regulation. Pursuant to this Article, only such financial undertakings authorised or registered under European Union law will be able to apply for registration of a pan-European pension product, i.e. credit institutions authorised in accordance with Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, insurance undertakings authorised in accordance with Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council dealing with direct life insurance, occupational pension insurance institutions authorised or registered in accordance with Directive of the European Union, which are also authorised under national law to provide personal pension products and which are supervised under those Regulations. In this case, all assets and liabilities corresponding to pension product activities must be earmarked without the possibility of transferring them to other pension insurance activities of the institution. Furthermore, investment firms authorised in accordance with the Directive of the European Union providing portfolio management, as well as investment companies or management companies authorised under the Directive of the European Community, EU AIFMs of AIFs authorised under the Directive of the European Union. An application for registration of a pan-European pension product shall be submitted to the home supervisory authority. Among other things, the application will have to contain the standard contractual terms of the Pan-European Pension Product Agreement, information on portfolio management measures, risk management and information on any partnership in ensuring the conditions for sub-accounts of the Pan-European Pension Product or the guarantee of that investment strategy, key information on the pension product, a list of Member States in which the applicant can ensure the immediate opening of the sub-account and, where appropriate, a list of the Member States in which the product wishes to be placed on the market. The following is the process of examining the application. Where the competent authority decides to register, it shall communicate this information to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, the so-called EGTC, and shall transmit the relevant documents. The institution shall subsequently register the pension product in the central public register. Only then can the provision and distribution of this pension product be started. The central public register shall be kept by the EGTC and made available to the public in electronic form, including a full list of the Member States in which the product is provided and a list of the Member States for which the provider offers a sub-account. The Regulation does not establish new authorisations for distribution. Therefore, those who already hold the relevant authorisation in the insurance and capital market will be able to provide and mediate a Pan-European pension product. However, when distributing a pension product, these entities will have to comply with the consumer protection obligations laid down in the Regulation. The terms of the product: that is to say, the regulation gives Member States scope to define certain conditions for the accumulation and accumulation phase of the product, even in the context of possible tax incentivities which Member States may adjust. For the accumulation phase, this is in particular the age limit for its start, the minimum duration, the maximum and minimum amount of contributions and their continuity, in particular the minimum age for its start-up, the maximum time before the retirement age can be reached, when it is possible to participate in the pension product and the conditions for payment before the minimum age for starting-up is reached, in particular in the case of particularly serious problems. The European Commission has issued recommendations on tax incentives that have been criticised by Member States. The European Commission states that Member States should also confer a tax advantage on a pension product which does not fulfil the conditions for tax advantage as other schemes or individual pension savings products in that Member State. The regulation also regulates relatively extensive information obligations inspired by existing regulations in the field of investment insurance and occupational pension insurance. Before offering a product, the provider shall draw up a key information document on a pan-European pension product and publish it on its website. Separate information will be necessary for the basic pension product. The range of information will depend on the alternative investment options offered. Either separate information will be developed for each alternative investment option or general investment conditions containing at least a general description of investment options with information where more detailed pre-contractual information can be found. The potential participant will also need to receive information where publicly available reports on the provider's financial situation and will have to receive information on the past performance of the investment options in at least 10 years or in all years when the product has been provided for a shorter period, stating that the performance does not indicate future performance. The Regulation shall address these conditions in detail in Articles 26 to 33. Prior to the conclusion of the contract, candidates must be given advice, as defined in Article 34, including personalised projections of expected pension benefits and a detailed explanation of the risks in terms of offering a basic pension product which does not involve a guarantee of capital. During the duration of the contract, the participant will receive a personalised document entitled Pan-European pension product benefits during the accumulation phase once a year. However, the document will not only be about possible benefits and their projections, but will contain information on the nearest possible date of commencement of the payout phase for each sub-account, information on contributions paid in the last 12 months, breakdown of all costs, information on how the guarantee operates, if relevant to the pension product or technically for risk reduction. The performance and other information referred to in Articles 36 and 37: the information will have to be broken down according to all the participant's existing sub-accounts. In addition to the above list of benefits, the provider must provide information on the upcoming start of the payment, possible forms of benefits and the possibility of the participant changing the form of benefits paid, two months before the start of the payout phase and two months before the start of the payout phase or at the request of the participant. The beneficiary of benefits shall then inform the provider each year of the benefits due to them and of the forms of payment. Where a participant continues to contribute or carries an investment risk, it must also be provided with an overview of the benefits of a Pan-European pension product. [[11.00 hours]] As regards the change of the pension product provider, the provision of the change service is regulated in Articles 52 to 56 of the Regulation, where, at the request of the participant, the corresponding amounts are transferred or, in some cases, the transfer of non-cash assets may be carried out to a new account of the pension product with the same sub-accounts with the receiving provider. The transferring provider must also transfer all information related to all sub-accounts of the original pension product. A participant may apply for a national or cross-border change when a new provider is established in another Member State. The change can be applied during both accumulation and payoff phases. However, if you... [[The speaker is silent.]] We're out of ink. Sorry. The Minister of Finance here has spoken to me, and I've lost a little thread. So it was to my colleagues, I thought it was up to me. Okay, explained. So the transferring provider must also transfer all information related to all sub-accounts of the original pension product and the participant may request a national or cross-border change when the new provider is established in another Member State. The change can be applied during both accumulation and payoff phases. However, if a grant in the form of a life-long benefit is already paid, the provider shall not be obliged to comply with the request. The provider may be changed at least five years after the conclusion of the contract or more frequently if the provider allows it to do so. The transfer of non-cash assets can only be carried out if the change takes place between providers of a pension product that administers individual portfolios. The receiving provider shall give written consent to this. The Regulation regulates the procedure for the modification of the provider and the charging of change fees. The participant shall bear the risk of financial loss related to the cashing of the assets for the purposes of their transfer. As regards supervision, the competent supervisory authorities will supervise compliance with the Pan-European Pension Product Regulation in accordance with the sector regime. They will also monitor the use of the Pan-European pension product, as well as the EGTC. That means he's only acting under this regulation again. The Regulation also provides in Article 63 for powers for competent supervisory authorities to prohibit or restrict the placing on the market of a product under the conditions in question. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority may, under certain conditions, temporarily prohibit or restrict the marketing and distribution of certain pan-European pension products. At the beginning of May 2019, the ERIC invited experts to participate in the panel on the work on draft implementing acts and this platform discussed the issues of techniques and mitigation of risks under investment strategies. From what has already been said by my previous speaker, it is so clear that it is basically another redundant, complicated legislative weed that has once again fallen from the European Union to usher in our legal order. I would really like us to defend ourselves against these excess legislative weeds and not to implement them into our legal order. Therefore, I would once again submit a motion for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u11	Thank you. At the same time, I would like to state whether it would still be possible to read this proposal in a detailed debate, because at the moment we are in a general debate, but, of course, at this moment the proposal was here. We are at the moment in a general debate. I still have one apology to read at the moment, Mr Jiří Hájek, who apologizes today between 13:00 and 14:00 and the end of the day, for reasons of work. At the same time, I would also like to say that Robert Stržínek will vote with a replacement card 27. So we are at this point in the general debate. Let me ask you, is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'll ask the plaintiff and the finance minister if he wants to speak with the final word? He doesn't want to. I will also ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, if she wants to speak with the final word? No, thank you. Therefore, we would be moving forward at this point and I would like to start a detailed debate. I would remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? I see Mr. Hrnčíř reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already quite thoroughly discussed this so-called pan-European pension product in the general debate and outlined what this is about. I have already put forward that I really consider such legislative proposals to be really legislative weeds, which usher in our legal order. We have more than two million laws in force. In general, it is difficult to navigate and confess at all. I'm not talking about regulations that are legally ineffective, which means, like, a giant jungle. We belong to the top in Europe in the number of legislation in force. I think there is no reason for us to further aggravate the situation and to mingle the legal order with these unnecessary legislative weeds that are falling from the European Union. I think we are here to adopt legal standards that really help the citizens of this country, who really need the Czech Republic to be as little as possible, to be as understandable as possible, and to accept such nonsense that is very extensive, that is bureaucratic nonsense, I think we are not supposed to do this here. I don't think we need this, and the products, the commercial products that concern the supplementary pension insurance offered by commercial insurance companies from all over the European Union, I think that these products are so many that we don't need to indulge our legal order with other, other nonsenses. So, as I was asked by Madam President, I am making a motion for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u13	Thank you. I also register this motion for rejection. I'm going to ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone in the hall, so at this point, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm going to ask if the Minister of Finance is interested in the final word? Also, is there no interest in the final word from the rapporteur? I see that the chairman of the SPD club Radim Fiala reports with priority rights. [[Radim Fiala from the space before the speaker's counter: After the end of the second reading.]] After the second reading, okay. So at this point, I'm saying that a motion for rejection has been made, and I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. At this point, I'm calling for a priori application, and that's for the chairman of the SPD's Radim Fiala, and I'm giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u14	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have very long and comprehensively explained what is bothering us about this proposal. I will repeat just one sentence that the aim of this implementation is to implement the European directive into the Czech legal system. The aim of this implementation is not to help Czech seniors in the old age and to ensure their quiet old age, but to regulate regulations in the Czech legal order. After all, my colleague Jan Hrnčíř, who made a motion for rejection, explained this, and it is a clear signal of the SPD movement about what we think about this bill. And I want to ask you for a break at the SPD club meeting for half an hour, 30 minutes, and I ask the members of the SPD club to come to the SPD meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u15	Based on the request of the SPD movement, I declare a 30-minute break and meet you here at 11.40 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-26-ps2021-006-06-002-079.u16	Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the 6th session, which was adjourned until 11.40 when we negotiated the law at second reading, and since the motion for rejection has been made, we cannot discuss the third reading at this time, so we cannot discuss paragraph 80 and we must start discussing another point, which is a point
