ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended /house print 249/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u2	Good afternoon. Madam President, honourable Members, the Ministry of Regional Development has prepared an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. This is a broader revision of the Act of 2016 and this revision is based on relatively long and detailed expert discussions. The proposed changes in legislation are supported by a broad professional public, such as the Association for Public Contracts, and I hope that you, too, will be able to identify yourself with the benefits of the proposed public procurement legislation. The draft law is in particular a response to the reasoned opinion of the European Commission on the lack of transposition of certain rules laid down in the award directives. These are two types, namely the issue of establishing the estimated value of public contracts of a regular nature and the admissibility of oral communication in the procurement procedure. I must state that the submission of this amendment is a continuation of the work carried out by the previous government, and it is not carried out very well, but I would like to thank the former Minister Klára Dostálová, because a large part of this legislation was completed just at the end of the previous parliamentary term. That is why I do not expect this legislation or this proposal to cause any major political clashes in the field of the Chamber of Deputies. However, I will only present the proposal briefly. Unfortunately, the previous government failed to complete the legislative process before the elections, and that is why, even in this case, it is a proposal that I put in a package called the Czech Republic's implementation debt to the European Union, where we are in delay. And here, by failing to implement, implementing obligations, we are facing so-called infringement. That, too, is why I hope to have a smooth discussion of this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, although I understand that this is a very important standard. I will then propose in the debate a reduction in the deadline between first and second reading to 30 days. I repeat once again - it is a proposal that has been prepared by the previous government, there is great agreement on it also for the professional public, and at the same time it is a risk of infringement, failure to fulfil its obligation to the European Union in transposition. The draft amendment included changes concerning firstly the clarification of the transposition of the award directives, secondly the clarification of certain institutes and the clarification of rules, for example in relation to the provision and proof of security. The third is to reduce the administrative burden, for example in proceedings at the ÚOHS, contracting entities will be entitled to provide the Authority with access to public procurement documents in electronic instruments relevant to this and, of course, we have also worked out the clarity of the text. There are no major changes in the regulation of supervision of compliance with the Public Procurement Act. So much for the content of the standard. Maybe I'd like to stop at one thing, because it resonated in the media. The discussion on this amendment concerned, in particular, the performance of the reserved parts of the public contract by entities from one group, where there was some concern that the performance could be attended by a company convicted of a criminal offence. And there were even comments that interpreted the passage of the proposal as tailor-made to the group. I'm not going to name it here, you can track down the comments. However, these comments interpreted the provision in question in a completely different way from that of the petitioner. The Government's Legislative Council has focused on this and, after consulting the Ministry for Regional Development, an amendment to the text has been proposed, which has completely distracted those doubts. Even in view of the situation in which the Czech Republic is now, and not only in relation to the war in Ukraine, beyond the previous proposal, the Government's Legislative Council also proposed the introduction of an obligation to demand basic qualifications, including the impunity of the supplier, even in a simplified climate procedure, where this requirement has so far been voluntary. This is a major tightening-up of the regulation, which has not yet caused any major problems. In order to minimise the administrative intensity on the part of contracting entities, we have chosen the form in which this is the benefit, respectively, when it is the declaration of honour. The contracting authority will, of course, be entitled to require, if it so decides, any specific documents proving the declaration of honour. Overall, this amendment to procurement practices is expected and supported, and I would like to ask you to give your consent to this draft law and its commandments for committee discussion. Together with my colleagues, I am prepared to provide any further information or additions to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u3	I also thank you, Minister, and I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Klára Dostálová, to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u4	Madam President, fellow Members, Minister, I can confirm the Minister's words that I really do not see this law, or actually this amendment to the law, for some conflict. I'd also like to thank you for your appreciation. I am also glad that this proposal really is after a broad agreement. However, given the fact that we have a lot of local politicians in the House of Deputies, I have taken the news report even more closely into detail about the things that local politicians have often discussed or, of course, some reservations have been raised to me, and I am glad that this amendment responds to that, too. As regards the transposition itself, there I think it is very important to mention that § 19 para. Where the unit price of the articles is variable during the accounting year and the contracting entity has repeatedly completed the performance according to its current needs, it shall determine the manner in which the estimated value of the contract is to be determined on a regular basis. It will therefore be possible in accordance with the procedure laid down in § 19 para. 3 to determine the estimated value only in the case of subliminal contracts and small-scale contracts. Furthermore, in the context of the transposition, the submission of written documents will be explicitly required and oral communication will be permitted in general only in the case of non-essential communications. Furthermore, I consider it good to mention that, in order to clarify the transposition of the directives, changes are also linked to the presentation of documents demonstrating the qualifications of the selected supplier, as European law requires that the documents presented are always up to date. In addition, there is a lot of refinement of certain institutes and clarification of certain rules throughout the package. For example, the submission of the original bank guarantee, as in the past, will no longer be required. Similarly, there will be a reduction in the exclusion of suppliers due to the failure to demonstrate the lodging of a security and it will be new to the contracting authority's decision whether or not to proceed to exclusion. [[16.30 hours]] I also consider it good to mention that it will no longer be required that the selected supplier always submit original proofs of his qualifications. The contracting authority shall be entitled to decide whether originals or copies are required. And then perhaps it is worth noting: because many municipalities approach a dynamic purchasing system, there is a refinement of the adjustment to show compliance with the participation of suppliers entering an established dynamic purchasing system. The moment of submission shall be considered as the decisive moment for the purposes of the assessment. This amendment also focuses on reducing the administrative burden. The contracting authority shall be entitled to grant access to procurement documents by means of a certified electronic instrument to the competition authority. Therefore, it will no longer be necessary to send the documentation thus made available to the Authority, which, of course, the municipalities will be positive. And then, last but not least, the extension of the rights of the parties to the procurement procedure. Contracting entities shall be allowed to request the contracting authority to provide information on tenders corresponding to numerically expressing evaluation criteria and data relevant for assessing the length of the contract period. So much really in brief for the introduction of this novel. As rapporteur, I also agree, or I think it is good to give my approval here, as the amendment was introduced, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I ask you to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. At the same time, I am opening a general debate in which two Members have joined so far. Mrs Dostálová comes first. Are you still going to report to the debate? [[No.]] So I can erase you. And now it is Mrs Karla Maříková's turn. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I must incline to my previous speakers - both the Minister and Mrs Dostálová, that the House press is particularly concerned with legislative technical adaptations and is not controversial. The main purpose of the proposed adjustment is to address the shortcomings of the transposition. While in the procurement directives contracts for deliveries are considered to be contracts for the acquisition of production, Czech law uses the term "stuff." This adjustment corrects it. It regulates the method of determining the estimated value where the unit price of the article is variable during the accounting year and the contracting entity receives the performance repeated according to its current needs. Some of the provisions of the law are being clarified. New rights and obligations are not introduced by the amendment. The proposal implements changes that will lead to a reduction of administrative burden on both contracting entities and suppliers, eliminates the disproportionate strictness of certain rules, clarify interpretation uncertainties and, last but not least, eliminates legislative technical shortcomings of the text of the law. That is why the SPD will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u7	Thank you, Madame. Minister Bartoš is now claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u8	I would just like to repeat in the debate what has already been said in my opening speech. I would suggest shortening the deadline between first and second reading to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-06-ps2021-035-01-001-025.u9	Yes, thank you, I have a record. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? It's not like that. There have been no proposals for repayment or rejection of the proposal, so we will be able to deal with the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I'll rejoin and call in colleagues from the lobby. I don't see any other suggestion. And now we would proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and asking whether you are in favour of ordering this proposal to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a committee of guarantee? I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 157 Members and Members, for 120, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? No one's checking in. In the general debate, there was a proposal to shorten the discussions between first and second reading to 30 days for committee discussions. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 157 Members and Members signed up, for 123, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have reduced the deadline for committee discussions between first and second reading to 30 days. I'm done discussing this press. Next we'll continue with point number
