ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-23-ps2021-027-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 27th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I'm going to sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 101 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 15 June this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Hayat Okamur and Mr Pavel Žáček. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see anyone like that. That is why I will begin voting on the proposed verifiers and ask who is in favour? Or who's against it? In voting number one, 90 Members and Members, for 88, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated members of Hayat Okamura and Mr Pavel Žáček as verifiers of the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I hereby declare that, by the beginning of the meeting, they requested an apology for their absence from meetings by the following Members: Adámková Věra from 14 to 18 hours for working reasons, Babiš Andrej for the whole working day, Balaš Vladimír until 13.30 for Janulík Taťána, Balaštíková Margita for the whole working day for working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel for the whole working day for work reasons, Bělor Roman for 12 hours for health reasons, Blaha Stanislav for the Matěj Ondřej day for working reasons, Brabec Richard for the whole working day for health reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav for the whole Zdenka Eliška for the whole medical reasons, Decroix Eva for the whole working day - kuchař Jan, Dufek Aleš for the whole working day - Němečková Martin, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole Crkvenjaš Aleš for the Kocmanová working day for the Olšáková medical reasons, Feranec Milan for the whole Marie for health Karel, Fridrich Stanislav from 18 hours - without giving reason, Hájek Jiří from 12.00 to 2345 for working Richterová, Hanzlíková Olga from 10.30 to 21.20 for work reasons, Síla Jan all day of the proceedings for health reasons, Staněk Pavel full day - health reasons, Strýček Jiří whole day - health reasons too, Stržínek Robert whole day for work reasons, Svoboda Bohuslav whole day for medical reasons, Svoboda Pavel from 11.00 to 13.00 and from 16.30 to 17.30 for working reasons, Špičák Julius from 19.00 for health reasons, Tureček Karel whole day due to foreign travel, Vlček Lukáš whole meeting day for working reasons, Vondrák Ivo within 12 hours - working reasons, Wenzl Milan whole meeting day - health reasons, ZborovskZborovský Miroslav whole meeting day - personal reasons. From the members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr all day - foreign trip, Baxa Martin from 19 to 21 hours for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel all day on account of foreign travel, Černochová Jana from the whole working day for working reasons, Gazdík Petr all day - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna all day - working reasons, Jurečka Marian whole day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít whole day - personal reasons and Šalomoun Michal whole day for working reasons. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 27th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I don't have anyone registered with priority rights, which is why I can start a straight vote. We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 2 registered 127 present, for 84, against 2. The motion was accepted. The agenda has been approved. We can therefore begin the first item in this meeting. I'm gonna ask you all to calm down and calm down. This is about
