ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u1	77. The proposal of Radek Vondráček, Petr Sadovský, Martin Kukla and others to issue a law amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, as amended / House print 192/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is proposed in order to give our consent to the bill in the first reading. The Government's position has been delivered as Parliamentary press 192/1, and I will ask that Mr Radek Vondráček present this proposal for the appellants. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u2	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly to mention the amendment as a representative of the 53 authors of this law. I have thus become a representative of the petitioners, although what I will present is actually the result of negotiations and some compromises of the previous term, which I was not personally present at. I, paradoxically, am rather the perpetrator of the original law, which was abolished by the Constitutional Court. Most of you know what's going on. It's a novel that responds to the constitutional find of 11. 2. 2020 - Rules of Procedure 38/17, which postponed the enforceability at 31. 12. 2020. This means this constitutional finding abolished the relevant part of the law and gave the legislators the opportunity to do 31. 12. 2020 negotiated a correction and modified the resulting hole in the conflict of interest law. Unfortunately, there was not enough agreement in the previous parliamentary term to adopt the amendment. Although negotiations took place on the ground of the Constitutional Legal Committee and the compromise text was adopted, further amendments were subsequently loaded, the debate failed to end and the whole law ended in a third reading. [[9.20 hours]] The essence is that the Constitutional Court insists that the requirement of prior request to consult the Central Register of Notices must be explicitly enshrined for all categories of public officials, i.e. not only for public officials pursuant to § 2 para. 2 of the Act on Conflict of Interest, as is the case under current legislation. The abolition of the provisions in question, which further specified the scope of access to the central register of notifications for each category of public officials, justified the Constitutional Court by an inadmissible intervention in the right to privacy and the right to information self-determination of public officials who failed the test of the need for such intervention, i.e. in the context of a wider proportionality test. According to the Constitutional Court, access to notification data should be conditional on a request to consult the Central Register of Notifications for all public officials. It should be noted that the Constitutional Court, having regard to the binding nature of the petition, annulled only the provisions of 14b para. Article 1 (1) (a), (b) and (c), i.e. provisions defining the scope of access to the central register and not the provisions of Section 13, paragraph 1. 3 which establishes a subjective right to look at notifications registered in the Central Register of Notifications without prior request that has not been challenged. However, it is clear from the Constitutional Court's argument that this one found it unconstitutional, the very same section 13 para. 3. It is therefore proposed, following this amendment, to amend in more detail the rules on the identification, authentication of the applicant for inspection, taking into account the need to prevent unauthorised handling of data obtained from the notification of public officials, and the need to prevent requests for bullying targets. Following this change, it is also proposed to amend in more detail the rules for the identification of the applicant for inspection. The scope of the published data remains in the proposal. Secondaryly and incoherently, the amendment removes the current legislative lack of consistency when removing from the category of public officials pursuant to § 2 para. Member of the statutory body, member of the managing, supervisory or supervisory body. Although this interpretation already follows from the historical interpretation of the conflict of interest law, the amendment builds this issue for sure. The last significant change is that it comes with a narrowing of the personal scope of the law when it removes from its reach the mayors of the municipalities, exercising the transferred competence to the basic extent, that is to say, the municipalities, and the members of the council of these municipalities, and the municipalities entrusted with the municipal authority, the so-called double municipalities. In both cases, these functionaries were not released for performance in the long term. The amendment is quite brief, it fits on two A4s, yet it affects us all with its reach and the practical functioning of elected officials is affected. I would like to emphasise once again that the petitioner is 53 members of the ANO movement, but the text itself is the work of some negotiations of the previous parliamentary term, which took place in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, which supervised the quality of the legislative press. The current Vice-President Věra Kovářová, from the position of mayors and vice-mayors, left a marked mark. A great deal of work was done by our MP Sadovský. I thank them all for this, and I am glad that this item has come on the agenda, and I will be much happier if we can demonstrate to the public that we can agree and that we can find an agreement without any major shocks to impose a law in which there was a hole after the Constitutional finding decision, if I say so. The Government's position is disagreeable, but I would like to point out, first of all, that it is disagreeable because it states that the proposal is, in a significant part, the same as the 110 press, which is another parliamentary proposal, namely the proposal by Members Jakub Michálek, Věra Kovářová, Marek Výborný, Marek Benda and Jan Jakob. Yes, the gros, the reaction to the Constitutional Court finding, is the same. This is a minimalist version to correct what is currently actually a lack of legal standards, we do not embark on other topics. Of course, the government still argues that certain doubts may raise precisely the scope or the limitation when certain mayors and councillors are removed from the law on the basis of the extent to which the municipal authority of the municipality exercises the delegated competence. But here I would like to point out that this is the subject of the compromise and agreement between the coalition and the opposition from the last parliamentary term. It's certainly not something unconstitutional or illegal, and it's the result of a wider consensus. The consensus for me personally is of great value and value, and I therefore hope that the House will give its consent to this proposal, and in particular that this law will be discussed in the regime of § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as proposed by the petitioners, and that this will actually succeed in doing what we failed to do at the end of the last parliamentary term. Thank you all for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u3	I thank the appellant, and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Lucie Potůčková, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u4	Madam President, my dear colleagues, my dear government. The Organizing Committee has entrusted me with the reporting of this very important press number 192, and although many have already been told by the appellants, as this is my first rapporteur, I will sum it up very briefly, in order to also enjoy it a little bit. This is print number 110 and therefore the amendment to Act on Conflict of Interest No. 159/2006 Sb. It has already been said that it reflects in particular the decision of the Constitutional Court 38 of 2017, which had already deferred execubility 31. 12. 2020 and therefore we have been in a legal vacuum for 17 months now, we have none. Important provisions have been repealed which have essentially allowed access to the Central Register of Notifications. Now this access to the Central Register is not allowed at all, and this is, of course, a situation that is not okay and that we have to do something about. The press has been sent to you 6. 4. 2022. The Government has expressed a disagreeable opinion on this press, but, as has already been said, this is mainly due to the fact that, at the same time, press number 110 has been submitted to the House for discussion, also a parliamentary proposal, and these two prints are in many parallel, only the 110 press is expanding. However, although the Government's position is disagreeable, there has been a broader political agreement, and I am very glad that it is this very rapporteur press, it is a kind of signal sent to the public that we are able to agree. I therefore ask the House to approve this proposal at first reading, i.e. in an accelerated process pursuant to § 90 para. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, as proposed by the applicant's representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u5	I thank the rapporteur and now open a general debate where we have two priority rights and then a proper application. First of all, Vice-President Věra Kovářová, then President Jakub Michálek, has been given priority. Please, Madam Vice-President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u6	honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Government. I must say, it is a big day for us, because the amendment to the conflict of interest law, it seems, could be approved at first reading, but at the same time I must remind a little of history. In March 2020, the Constitutional Court annulled certain provisions of this Act and stated that the right to information and the right to privacy must be balanced. Basically - to put it simply - he recommended that the consultation of the Central Register of Notices, i.e. the property statements of politicians, be made on the basis of a previous request. The Constitutional Court has given the Government, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate time to correct them by the end of 2020. [[9.30 hours]] I will not say anything new that the government did not do at the time, and therefore, after long-term negotiations together with my colleague Sadovskýý and the other clubs, we reached an agreement on what the conflict of interest should look like and to comply with the opposition of the Constitutional Court. We have created and filed an amendment to the law, which, in essence, now, as we agreed in the last parliamentary term, comes today. However, I also have to say that the government's inaction and the fact that ANO and KSČM were blocking the amendment at the time reached so far that the Central Register of Notifications had closed completely. Consequently, it was not possible to access this information even through Act No. 106 on free access to information. That is why we have tabled this amendment again as a parliamentary proposal, but it states the same thing as it is there today. Looking at political property statements will be based on a request and we have added, and that is also in this proposal that the applicant will be able to access the register via data boxes and bank identity, which I think is a good achievement. Furthermore, there was a narrowing of the circle of unreleased public officials, which means that the dislodged councillors in the municipalities of the first and second types and the unleasing of the deputy mayors in the municipalities of the first type basically on the smallest ones, they will not have to file property returns. The reasons why we did this were the following - they are people who work for their communities in their free time, after work, for minimal rewards. I am very glad that there is an agreement today, and this amendment is likely to be approved, because it is necessary for the Central Registers to open announcements so that citizens and the public can access our property returns as it should be. I thank all those who participated in the preparation of this law during the last parliamentary term, and I hope that you will all support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u7	Thank you, and now with priority right, the President of the Pirates' MP Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u8	Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the performance of Mr Vondráček's translator. [[In the YES benches, the phone rings.]] I'll wait for the ANO colleagues to turn their phones off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u9	Please keep your phone down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u10	Of course I like music production, I don't know if it belongs in the Chamber of Deputies. Let us remember what happened in the last parliamentary term. In fact, the story was not quite so that the ANO movement submitted a sunny proposal on which there was consensus, and then it could not be discussed here. It was that a proposal was tabled that was signed by almost all clubs, and I tabled an amendment to this proposal, which added an important rule on conflict of interest to make it enforceable - which is already there today, but it is not enforceable - that politicians should not control large media houses. That is how it should work in democracy, in democracy it is that the media control politicians, not that politicians control the media. Of course, if a politician controls the media, there is no such free competition in democracy, and then it can be abused against, for example, his own colleagues in political parties, when there is a need to arrange an exit, push and so on. Of course, this is not part of the policy, and it was also discussed by the Constitutional Court, which confirmed the principle that politicians should not control large media houses in democracy when reviewing the constitutionality of these measures, but at the same time the finding points out that the regulation is not so enforceable that it can function in reality. During the last parliamentary term, the constitutional-legal committee assessed this proposal and recommended it to the SPD colleagues' votes in order to ensure that politicians would not control large media homes, and since then the ANO movement has operated obstructions so that this proposal would not get on the agenda, so that they held hostage the entire property return system, it was not functional because there was a fear that the amendment would be voted on and did not allow their votes to get on the agenda. During this election period, the coalition has come up with the fact that this proposal, which failed to be discussed in the last parliamentary term, will be renegotiated, and again we see that there are record obstructions, when basically up until now - we saw it at an emergency meeting, which was all built up to avoid a conflict of interest - obstructions were taking place, it was postponed and postponed. In such a situation where the whole of Parliament is basically paralyzed by obstructions, we have decided that we will no longer delay citizens from having access to property records, and that is why we have come into the coalition with a proposal to resolve the problem of non-transparency of property confessions first, because because of those obstructive people today - and I think it is also unconstitutional - that they do not have access to the property declarations they have the right to, and it is part of public control, part of the balance of when politicians have power, so citizens have the opportunity to control them. That is why we supported the discussion of this proposal. Of course, the proposal is not entirely ideal, there is no solution to eIDAS, bank identity or national identity, there are only data boxes. I don't think it's quite ideal. The proposal envisages that there will be no basic information about real estate, which we have also seen in the last parliamentary term very entertaining stories about how the minister did not know that he had sixty properties in France, the former Prime Minister had real estate in France, everyone has real estate in France, so now there is an exception, I do not consider it entirely ideal. And, of course, there are no provisions in this proposal that prevent politicians from owning large media homes. That's a big deficit. We gave in to the obstructions to allow access to property returns as soon as possible, but the coalition agreement continues to apply that we are trying to prevent politicians from owning the media. That's an election promise we want to keep, and we're definitely going back to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u11	Thank you and Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská is now in the debate. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, I would just like to summarize the SPD's position on this bill, the 192th press, as well as the short reading. The previous speakers here have summed up the history of this press and, unfortunately, to date, the Central Registry of Notices is blocked. This press will open it up, so we will be able as citizens to control those on which the notification falls. I would like to say that media houses are a really big topic and it might be worth considering how we influence the choice of advice - not only on Czech television but also on radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u13	Thank you, and with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, I would like to introduce you very briefly to the position of the KDU-ČSL. In the last parliamentary term, we were here, together with the opposition and the coalition, preparing an amendment to the law on conflict of interest in response to the Constitutional Court's finding. It was not our fault that this was not approved in the last parliamentary term. At this point, I must say what my colleagues have said before me and my colleague Michálek. It is important - and this is our long-term view - that we MEPs, senators, members of the government, other politicians actually end this situation when the register of notifications is closed. It is closed on the basis of the Constitutional Court's finding, the government could not do otherwise, the previous one and the current one, and so we decided to do this inter-step and discuss, approve in accelerated proceedings this Member's amendment to the law on conflict of interest, so that, first, the public may have access to the register of notifications, because, especially for us, top politicians, that is completely justified and it is difficult to accept and it is difficult to justify that this is not the case today - not our fault, but we will not discuss this and go back to it. The second thing, I think, is very important: we have shortly before the municipal elections. Many of us certainly have experience with how difficult it is for our citizens, especially smaller municipalities and cities, to be willing to engage in their free time within local authorities to run for council of municipalities and cities. The common reason for rejecting this step is that they do not have the need, for example, to fill out a register of notifications, to undress almost naked, in the function of councillors, also unreleased, to be subject to the obligations of the law that is still there today. That's hard to understand. Just as it is justified and necessary for us, it is very difficult to justify for those who perform their positions as unrelaxed, that is, in their free time, at the expense of their family, their hobbies. And it is this amendment, as Vice-President Kovářová said, that has been actually negotiated in substance during the previous parliamentary term, that is what is being said. So let us send the signal together today, also towards potential municipal politicians, that we will cut this obligation here and remain with those with whom it makes sense, those who are in their positions in vacant positions, then decide really in matters where there may be a conflict of interest. There it is acceptable and necessary. But it's not necessary, and it's getting closer to some elementary bullying for politicians who are in position in small towns as unreleased. That's what I think is an important signal, let's do this. And, of course, the second step, which is also important, and that is the question of conflict, let's say media power and political power, we don't dodge it, but let's deal with it in gradual steps. That is our position, which is why we will support this law as KDU-ČSL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u15	Thank you and Mr Adamec is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would respond to my honored colleague Marek the Výborný. So it's great that we're going to somehow adjust the situation for mayors, mayors, especially small towns, but I'd like to draw your attention to another problem. No matter what we do, from the point of view of the banks, we'll still be happy if you know what it is. And the problem is, it's not just us, it's our wives and our children, and even adult children. I've come across my son being a lawyer, a lawyer, he was supposed to start account numbers for his clients, and the bank refused to make him a pepek -- a politically exposed person. Let's think about this problem. The banks even want more assets than we want in the asset register, which we have to file every year. That's the problem! Here's a big problem we're not dealing with right now. Let's think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u17	Thank you and now duly signed up for the debate, Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, after this very pragmatic statement - which I share because I share the same experience - my previous speaker, of course, does not find much attention from the optics of historical context and philosophical backgrounds and will seem to be torn away from you. I also promised myself that I would not be here to give a lecture that I had prepared for about an hour, because I think that both the philosophical, constitutional, and especially the historical context from ancient Rome until now may well throw a slightly different perspective on conflict of interest and we will see it in a different historical continuity. And I don't mean softer or tougher, but it's just different. I was a little provoked by the performance of my colleague Dr. Michálek, who was a member of the constitutional-legal committee during the last parliamentary term, and, of course, his interpretation of why we did not allow the debate to be - or at all, that we did not allow the debate to be terminated - would be different from mine, or those reasons would be different from mine, so I will not burden them. Not only for me, but also for the other members of the YES movement, who were members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I must say that we have seriously discussed this issue many times, and I think that the time factor really was one of the essential reasons why it did not eventually come to the adoption of the law, although I will not say here that certain obstructions here and here, of course, on our part, were, if there were proposals that did not correspond to the main thing I am going to talk about, that is, public interest as such and essentially a conflict of interests by the optics of what we really want to protect. But the bridgeman actually provided me with a previous speaker because there are absurd situations that he was talking about, banks where they are being punished for our political career - whether successful or not - our closest ones. There was, of course, a key decision by the Constitutional Court when it rejected 11. 2. 2020 proposal to repeal certain provisions of the Conflict of Interest Act. It was a plenary decision of the Constitutional Court 4/17, where the Constitutional Court, as has already been said, defined - or tried to define in part - the rules according to which the legal standards governing conflict of interest should be assessed and, on the one hand, expressed its commitment, which - and now it really falls to - will flow to the Czech Republic from membership of the European Union. I have chosen one quote here: "if this is not contrary to the explicitly defined criteria', which are calculated here under Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whereas: 1 of the Charter - "Although it may be possible to lay down further conditions for access to elected or other public functions, but only if it is not otherwise a "unjustified restriction' - and that is, in turn, Art. 25 The Pact in principio - "that is, in our terms, in compliance with the rules on the restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms - Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 70 of the Constitution in the case of members of the Government'. So it is no less, and no more than what we should often have here - or more often than we should - always take into account, it is to respect the principle of proportionality of intervention. [[9.50 hours]] And the same thing, because it is not meant to be a lecture, but I assume that I will have some space here for the wider or longer interpretation in relation to the conflict of interest, so I would just like to draw attention to the Constitutional Court's finding, No. I US 198/95, in which the Constitutional Court has, among other things, been concerned with the public interest and considers that the concept of public interest must always be understood as such an interest which could be regarded as a general or generally beneficial interest. For example, if we look at a publication written by Hayek and published by Academia in 1991, Law, Law, Lawmaking and Freedom, let us quote: "It is often mistaken to suggest that all collective interests are general interests of society, but in many cases the collective interests of certain groups with general interests of society can be met in complete contradiction. " And as we can see, in fact, the entire history of democracy and democratic institutions is a conflict, a struggle to prevent the abuse of government in favour of the collective interests of these groups. So, if I sum up, paradoxically, at the beginning of the trip to define the public interest, there is some private interest. And that's a phenomenon that we can find in any system of state order. Finally, I would also like to pay attention to other possible adjustments that I do not want to say will not happen, but maybe they will - and if they do, perhaps in favour of this issue, this means respecting the principle of proportionality - so that we respect the comparative view of adjusting the conflict of interest in the Member States, the EU countries. And here I have an adjustment that would have just been published here for about half an hour, but I don't want to delay it, because I am very well and I like to see the consensus that is rarely held in the Chamber of Deputies today in parentheses, and I don't want to spoil it with some long lectures. But if you take Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and finally Sweden, so out of all the adjustments - and I have always chosen only the characteristics, not... it wasn't the Parliamentary Institute, so let's say it's really a little voluntaristically important, but summarized by a few sentences - you see great diversity. It can be said that each country treats this differently, of course, in respect of the European Union regulation that tightened the issue of 2018 in 1046, but for example, Denmark has no regulation at all governing conflicts of interest of the Prime Minister, ministers or members of Parliament. [[1946?]] So we should draw attention from the deeper dissection of our Czech issue a little bit to the more European view, and, as I say, respecting the principle of proportionality and not always seeing the interest of the individual, but really trying to get what is public interest for all citizens of the Czech Republic and to look away from politics and to inspire, for example, what is modified abroad and what is not modified, and yet it works there. I apologize for being so brief, although the issue would require a much larger space of time, but I would like to be more detailed and precise next time, and I can deal with this issue if it is interested. Today, as I say again, I don't think there's room for it, because we rarely agree that we should send this standard to another reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u19	děkovat you, Madame, and now President Jakub Michálek is with priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u20	Thank you. I would ask the petitioner two questions, to be clear - and now we will be talking specifically about the content of the amendment, because the issue of politically exposed persons falls under the anti-money laundering law, not the conflict of interest law - I wanted to ask you about § 13 para. 4: Your proposal states that an application may be made by means of a postal service provider on a document with an officially certified signature of the applicant or if the application is accompanied by a recognised electronic signature or by a data box of the applicant. But the proposal is not at all what we had in our coalition proposal that they can do it through bank identity, national electronic identity or electronic ID. So we're setting up systems here for many, many million crowns, and then when we define such an information system, we won't be able to use banking identity, electronic identity or national identity? This is the first question why letter (d) fell out there, which assumed that access to the register could also be obtained electronically using electronic identification means issued under a qualified electronic identification system, which is in accordance with eIDAS Regulation of the European Union. The second question will concern § 13, where it is proposed to tighten up, that all data kept in the notification register be used and further processed only in order to establish possible breach of the public official's obligations. So if this means - because it is a provision which is subsequently sanctioned if it is violated as an offence, and there is a fine of up to CZK 50,000 for it - if journalists publish such information that someone, I don't know, took a mortgage or bought a house, which is done every year, if they are now in danger of being fined CZK 50,000 for it. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u21	Thank you. I wonder if there's an interest in the reaction? [[Not now.]] In the final word. And if there is any interest in speaking in the general debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. Now shall I ask whether there is interest in the final words of the appellant? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u22	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very brief. Thank you all for a positive and constructive approach. On the question of President Michálek - I would have to trace the debate you had in the Constitutional and Legal Committee during the previous parliamentary term. I was based on the information I have at my disposal that, as it says, there's no bank identity, that you didn't agree on it, that it was still the subject of a closed discussion, and this is really the minimum of everything. This proposal is minimal in order to be as little controversy as possible and to be adopted in Section 90. I am prepared to investigate further and discuss this with you, through Madam President, and I will find the answer for you, but at this point I am unable to respond because I really was based on the fact that... and you were then a member of the constitutionally-legal committee, I am not, so I am not able to respond to you immediately. And the debate is no longer open, here I am being signalled by colleagues, so only that a minister would speak, or that the House would agree to reopen the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u23	With priority law, a colleague may respond, a priority right may. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u24	Thank you for the floor. This is because it was one of the more amendments recommended by the constitutional-legal committee, so you probably did not just take it into your original proposal. I take it that, simply, given that this is a parliamentary proposal, as in every parliamentary proposal, there are sometimes errors, so that is a thing that we will unfortunately have to correct, to add to that to be consistent. And I'm assuming that when we renegotiate the conflict of interest, we're going to make these changes there because they're on the amendment points, and we're going to correct those mistakes. At least that's another reason why you could really support a change in the conflict of interest law that will solve the issue of media ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-002-077.u25	Thank you, too. For the record, shall I ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the final word? No. [[10.00 hours]] We will now decide - I will do so - in accordance with § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 192 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' And I have launched a vote on this motion for a resolution. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 31, 164 Members voted in favour of 153, 11 abstained, and I hereby state that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I can therefore launch a detailed debate. And now I look around to see if there is an interest in speaking out in a detailed debate? This is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. Again, for the record, I assume there is no interest in the final words? And we can proceed - and I will just make sure with the rapporteur - because there are no accompanying resolutions or amendments that we can proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole, okay? There's no contradiction. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with Radek Vondráček, Petr Sadovský, Martin Kukla and others to issue a law amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, pursuant to House Press 192." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 32, 167 Members voted in favour of 161, six abstained, against zero. And I note that the result is that consent has been given to the bill, and the hearing is over. Thank you to the representatives of the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am terminating the debate on this point. Before we proceed to the next point, I'll load up the apologies. Today, Mrs Lenka Dražilová apologizes for health reasons from 9.30 to 14 o'clock for work reasons, Minister Michal Šalomoun apologizes today between 11 and 14 o'clock for Hofmann of work and from 11 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of health, Mr Julius Špičák apologizes. We've dealt with apologies so far. And we can move on to point number
