ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u1	110. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 215/ - 3rd reading We interrupted this item in the debate on Friday 9 September at the 35th meeting. I ask that Mr Marek Benda and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, take the position on the rapporteur's table. I recall that the motion for rejection and amendments are being made in the Chambers of the Press 215/3, which was delivered on 13 July 2022, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 215/4. We will now continue the interrupted debate to which the rapporteur has signed up with the priority right and then President Okamura. Please, you have the floor. And please, calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that there was a proposal on the Constitutional and Legal Committee that a separate vote could be made on the proposal submitted by Mr Ivan Adamec. I'm just pointing out, if this is going to be filed, I need to read a legislative technical proposal. So much for engineering. And now for something more interesting. You know, I looked at the Home Office's website last night. [[It is silenced for the noise in the hall, which is shrinking for a short period of time.]] Thank you. And I looked up the Annual State Service Report in 2021. Guys, do you know how many offices this law of service applies to? Even I didn't know how much. I beg you, not only to the Ministry, financial authorities, regional military headquarters, Punctual Office I am interested in, Czech Trade Inspection Authority, Czech Office for Testing of Weapons and Ammunition, State Energy Inspection, Agency for Enterprise and Innovation, National Archives, and the Act also governs Czech breeding inspection...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u3	I'm sorry, Madam. Ladies and gentlemen, please move your debates into the lobby. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u4	It is also governed by the State Veterinary Administration, the State Land Office, the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, the District Mining Authority, the Agricultural Authority, weighing, it is also subject to this law. I was surprised how much. Now, about what I was going to say. This law is presented by a group of Members, not by the Ministry, but by more than 200 authorities affected by the law, suggesting that the standard legislative procedure should have been applied from a pragmatic point of view here in this case. It's true that today I'd like to discuss it with the guy whose gesture this is in. I do not think, through Madam President, a colleague of Benda, who obviously understands this very well, but nevertheless the Minister of the Interior. It's under the jurisdiction of the Civil Service. Today - I listened well - morning apology - working reasons. Let's face it, who processed this bill? A group of five colleagues who are signed under it, or the Ministry of the Interior? I would therefore welcome especially the important law, which will affect over 200 offices in the Czech Republic, that the Minister could come, hear it, or comment on it. You know, I really miss Mr. Rakušan here. I think it would be appropriate for him to be here. I believe that this is precisely the extent to which this law affects the various authorities - in addition, the creation of a new agency is now being prepared, because we need to accelerate digitalisation, so we will create a new office, and what about it? It will be covered by the Service Act. Gentlemen, I believe that I have rightly put forward a motion for the law to be rejected, because I believe that the standard review procedure is lacking in the standard legislative process. [[Rush in the hall especially among opposition Members who are unsuccessfully looking for a minister in the hall.]] And now I'm looking, am I talking to a minister? Madam President, I think we should take a break before someone from the government graciously comes, sits down and listens to something about the Service Act!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u5	The Minister of Transport is present. [[He's coming to his place.]] I sincerely greet you, I have taken over the management of the meeting and now the President of Okamura is registered with priority rights. Mr President, you can take the floor, you are logged in, as I have written in order here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, this is incredible what the five-calice government of Petr Fiala is doing here in the composition of ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN. In the government coalition, their fellow partyers are so hungry for troughs that here in the House, government MPs to power through opposition to opposition, despite the opposition of the SPD, are pushing for a change in the law of service, so ministers, your ministers of the Fialův Government, instead of the existing several civil servants, will be able to take back unlimited, once again, an unlimited number of political representatives, or political traders. And the experts who have been there so far will be abolished completely. So far, the Minister could have had only two political deputys. [[10.30 hours]] So once again, what Petr Fiala of the ODS is doing here is that now that the budget is in ruins because of your government and we're in a huge deficit, the government of Petr Fiala is shutting down the Deputys of the Ministry, and instead it introduces an unlimited number of political deputys, so that the Minister of the Government of the Five-calice can show himself: So I'll give you, ten people, for example, a political trade for 100 to 150 thousand a month, with bonuses even more, as we know. So in this way, like leeches, Petr Fiala's government coalition is draining public money from citizens of the Czech Republic. You're sucked in like leeches, you're at the trough, you're grunting in an incredible way, while the citizens are powerless! [[In an elevated voice.]] Citizens don't have money! You are not helping citizens, they are in a desperate situation, you have put millions of citizens into poverty because of the incompetence and incompetence of Petr Fiala's government, thousands of companies have existential problems, are failing, threatened with dismissal, threatened with rising unemployment and the government coalition of Petr Fiala, Prime Minister Petr Fiala is at the head of the ODS, so here you are pushing through the law, and today you seem to vote on the force here in the House that your ministers will be able to take an unlimited number of political representatives, political representatives, your fellow party, to the ministries for 100 to 150 thousand a month, while until now it has been limited to only two political representatives per minister. That's a crazy suggestion. This is incredibly insolence and incredible arrogance that you're doing here, and the SPD doesn't agree with it, of course we're promoting rejection, rejection of this law, and the motion for rejection is already here. But, of course, you overrule us, because only 20 Members out of 200 in the SPD, but we fight, we fight. [[is]] And now we've heard here, just yesterday, here, basically, you can say that, without any more explanation, so you've even increased the Czech Republic's debt for this year. At first you proposed a deficit, it was already record-breaking in essence, minus CZK 295 billion this year, because you are sending money, billions to Ukraine and God knows where else, you are buying the most expensive fighters in the world and so on. Yeah, well, that goes back to the next few years, but I'm warning you. And you raised it within a few weeks from 295 billion, the debt of the Czech Republic, only for this year to 330 billion, and now to 370 billion. Well, that's where you come in! Tens of billions of public money! There is a real risk of being indebted to generations if this continues, and you have it in the budgetary perspective that you want to owe the Czech Republic a trillion crowns for your term, more than a trillion crowns. The failure of the Czech Republic is imminent because of your government! [[In an elevated voice.]] There is a risk that it will not be for pensions, it will not be for the basic social security of citizens of the Czech Republic, there will be no money for health care due to your government. But in all of this, you're promoting an amendment to the Service Act, where you're new here, you're going to law here, and you're going to push it through our resistance tonight, that you can have an unlimited number of deputys from among your fellow party members, political deputys for 100 to 150,000 crowns a month. This is for the immediate demise of this government! You have to go away and we will continue to push politically, even through demonstrations, and through action on the streets to push you out of the government. You are pests of the Czech Republic and you must leave. We must remove you politically, we must remove you politically, and I also call on the citizens not to shut up about your incredible arrogance that you are showing here. I have information that the government parties are already impatiently waiting for these places, waiting for these places, already being promised. We all know that, yes, because your fellow party members are people who, of course, are hard to find work in the private sector, they need to be sucked into public money. And here we are already impatiently waiting for ODS, STAN, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and Pirates to commit themselves to a public budget based on this special-purpose amendment and to drain public money as much as possible at the expense of the needy citizens who have no energy. So it can be combined by hundreds of unnecessary government political friends, who you stab in the ministries and employ them and pay the citizens out of their taxes. I think it must have made many decent citizens really sick of showing off your government coalitions. And it's not enough for you. You have lost your mandate in the just-completed municipal elections, all government parties have lost their number of mandates, mostly the STAN movement. On the contrary, the SPD has increased the number of mandates, so it is quite clear that SPD policy is currently gaining increasing support for citizens of the Czech Republic. And why am I talking about the STAN movement? Because we have a service law here. It is a parliamentary proposal, but it basically falls under the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. Well, I understand that's a parliamentary proposal. Obviously, the Minister, who has a party overwhelmed by organized crime, corruption and the mob, doesn't have time to deal with his ministry, which he certainly doesn't have time, we know, and I'm still going to talk about it. This means that we have here the Minister of the Interior for the STAN movement, who does not have the time to actually solve the problems of Czech citizens. Migration, organized crime, political trades, that's the Ministry of the Interior under the STAN Vít Austrian movement. And the migration, it's escalating again today, it's escalating today, yesterday, for months. We've been warning Rakušan Home Secretary about this. We have repeatedly suggested here as the SPD a point for the government to address the migration crisis and the approaching migration crisis, I said. Once again, the government coalition laughed at the SPD, you gave a shit about the problem, and now we're in a completely out-of-control situation. And it's all full responsibility not only for Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, but mainly for the entire five-calice Petr Fiala, because you're here to have more political newsrooms, to be here - hundreds of your teammates, up to hundreds, for example, because you put unlimited numbers there, nothing unlimited - they're stuck in the state administration, and you don't give a damn about citizens. You don't help them with energy, you don't help them with price increases, you don't help businesses and Czech companies and you don't even deal with migration. That's why it got out of hand. Citizens are desperate in Moravia. He's afraid to go out tonight. Women, girls are afraid to go for a walk after dark! [[10.40 hours]] That's the reality of the day! You guys got us all into pliers. The Slovák don't want to take back the migrants, we don't have the capacity, the tax people pay everything, the security situation gets heated, and you keep talking about a European solution. Don't lie, it's not a European solution! You are talking about a Union solution because the European Union is not Europe and Europe is not the Union. On the contrary, you, the European Union's supporters, are anti-European because you are going against security in Europe. On the contrary, you are heading the Czech Republic into total disruption, both economic and social, as we can see in the demonstrations as well as social. So I really think that this service bill that you're doing here, that's, again, an absolutely unacceptable law for the SPD. We are absolutely opposed to the government coalition, you are now voting here today through our resistance, that you will be able to accept an unlimited number of deputy ministers from among your fellow party. It's a crazy proposal, a crazy proposal, and I think citizens need to hear it, which is why I prefer to repeat it here several times, what your government is doing. Thank you for your attention and I say again: we fundamentally disagree, we will vote against it and we will also talk about it in the future, how you behave towards the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u7	Thank you. Minister Kupka is now reporting with the facts. In the meantime, I'll read an apology. Mr Aleš Dufek apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons and Mrs Lucie Šafránková from 12 o'clock for work reasons. And please, your two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Tomio Okamura recounted the image of the Czech Republic as a poor country. Fortunately, the Czech Republic is not a poor country. There's been a whole bunch of nonsense, untruth, lies. Of course, the Czech Government is helping people who are facing serious energy growth as well as people in the surrounding states, the Czech Republic is dealing with this as well as the surrounding states and in many ways simply better. It is easy to prove, and that is what reality really is. With regard to the amendment of the Service Act, we are following a number of important things on which people who know the state administration face many complications, so we are clearly in agreement - we need a Civil Service Act that will be more flexible to open key positions in government to people who have experience in the private sphere. In key areas where there is a shortage of people, even in the private sphere, this is a necessary condition for the state to create competitive conditions for key roles. This is a key reason for amending the Civil Service Act, and I believe that this is one of the essential steps to improve the conditions in the authorities, both at the level of the state administration, at the central bodies and, of course, in other important places.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u9	Thank you and we can return to the debate, where Mrs Berenika Peštová is duly signed up, and Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will prepare herself. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u10	Well, hello again. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I'm not going to continue this nonsense and nonsense, as has been said here, and I think it's true. So let's actually recap a little bit of the whole annabasis and the history of this great amendment to the Service Act. This law was not in the ordinary legislative plan of work or the Ministry of the Interior, nor did the government have it in the ordinary legislative plan of work. This means that if there is no amendment to this law, nothing will happen to this state or to our state, as is the case with the normal transposition of directives - it is clearly stated that if a transposition does not take place to a certain date, usually two years, we will be sanctioned. This is not the case in this case, so there is no reason for this law to be driven at this rate and at this rate. It's not the reason for the transposition. The fact that he has not passed the ordinary legislative process is very sad because, as my previous speakers have already said, this law has been written at the Ministry of the Interior, so the officials of the Ministry of the Interior have done on this law. They tended to put him in a proper legislative process, which means they put him in an interdepartmental commentary procedure, and look, he was only there for a few hours because they realized that this law didn't have the accompanying things he should have, that is, impact study, the so-called RIA. The impact study is very important, because it is just telling us how much it will affect our state budget, and not just the state budget, and the budgets of individual ministries, and as my previous speaker has already said, it will affect not only the Ministry, but almost 200 institutions, more than 200 institutions, and that is not enough. That money's gonna have to go somewhere. Yesterday we discussed - or we discussed here yesterday - the state budget, and I wonder if the state budget remembers if it remembers how much it's going to cost. So let's remember how much it's gonna cost. If people who are simultaneously in these posts are thrown out of these places in quotation marks because they will be competing, then they will enter the pool. They'll be in that pool for 80 percent of the salary for six months. After that, if they're not offered any adequate work, we're running... If they have worked in given places within three years, they will receive three severance payments if it is three to six years, they will receive six severance payments if it is six to nine years, they will receive nine severance payments, and if it is more than nine years, they will receive twelve severance payments. So here we have the officials who end up in the pool, we have an unlimited number of political deputys who are going to pick up just like these guys who are going to be in the pool, and that's not a small amount of money. So I'm wondering if the individual ministries and organisations that are set up by ministries have this in their budgets, because impact studies just weren't processed. And I'm going to go back to the fact that the Home Office put this bill in an interdepartmental commentary for a few hours. It withdrew it because it realized what a fuss it would be, it passed it on to Members, and these Members here in the Chamber of Deputies actually presented it as an amendment to the Law of Service. And since the law makes it possible that a Member, when he presents or a group of Members, when he presents, does not have to have an impact study, it simply is not. And I would quite like to remind you of the statement that was made in 2018 and 2019. They were just the famous pirát who are here playing at how truthful they are and what kind of fight they lead for justice, anti-corruption, and so on and so on. One of the beautiful statements was, I quote: The inter-resorative commentary procedure, how it works today - the years that I have said - involves only a part of the organisations concerned by the relevant legislation. Dozens of organizations whose word is now ignored in lawmaking will now be able to express themselves openly about legislation and thus participate in its creation. It will be crucial for the citizen to find in the final report all proposals and expressions of relevant organisations. An open House is an application that will fundamentally make law-abiding processes more transparent before the Act on lobbying regulation is adopted. [[10.50 hours]] So I got the app www.otevrenasnemovna.cz According to the instructions I got from the Pirates on YouTube, I saw a beautiful video of how I'm supposed to run this app, so I started it. I wanted to know how many comment points this law saw when they were so transparent. So imagine that when I opened it, the website was throwing me a link error: No server is available to process this request. So basically, the transparency ended with maybe opening this website and shutting it down at the same time. In fact, no organizations mentioned here should see this law and give proper and correct comments have seen this. The only person who saw this was a few Members who submitted it here. As they say, there is agreement across the political spectrum, but only through the spectrum of the ruling coalition, and others did not have the opportunity to comment. I'm telling you, it's only been a few hours in interdepartmental commentary. What was further advocated by the pirát: "We advocate the accelerated implementation of the Service Act, which we consider to be a necessary condition for professional, efficient and uncorrupt state administration. We want to make a clear distinction between political and official posts and ensure that politicians do not interfere with official decisions. Politicians are elected to work as Members, not as officials where training is needed. The Staff Act is necessary for the establishment of selection criteria for official posts to protect officials from political pressures and for precise rules of career practice. The Staff Law also lays down requirements for the education and expertise of officials and their regular testing. Officials must, above all, know the laws, know how to solve citizens' practical problems and use modern technologies effectively. Furthermore, the Staff Law should establish the personal responsibility of officials for their decisions. It is not acceptable for officials not to respect the laws, unnecessarily delay proceedings on citizens' matters or ignore court decisions. Officials will be held responsible for the wrong administrative procedure and punished by disciplinary measures. The state will recover the damages caused by the officials." I'm asking, where is it in the law? I was wondering, since you were so concerned with the posts you needed to fill the unofficials, the cadres, so where are you dealing with this so that the clerk would actually pay for it if he deliberately made a mistake? Or is that the intention? He's just gonna deliberately hold someone back, or he's not gonna make a decision in due course, so where is it affected there? Next thing I knew, I liked it with the Pirát when they made sure there was a career order. That's what I was talking about here, too, because in the moment, or then you came up with this law, you're actually devalued this career order. It is a total devaluation, the liquidation of the career order of the Czech state service. It is a politicisation of the Czech state service, and if the European Commission has ever had a problem with the amendment of the Civil Service Act, it was precisely the gradual dilution of qualification criteria for participation in competitions for higher posts presented. That is what the European Commission blamed. You're basically doing what you blamed the last government for wanting and part of doing, so you're doing a lot more than that. And what you're saying is that it's the deagrofertization. That's not deagrofertization at all. I am currently an off-duty civil servant, and I am being approached by civil servants with great concern, but with great concern, because of course they are watching and begging us to be heard here to say our practice here. I said here that I understand that you want to have your people there, I understand that, but not an unlimited number! What's that? When there were suggestions to have a number of political deputys that would actually be a mirror of individual sections, which has logic, you said no. That means the Ministry has five sections, and you're going to have fifteen political deputy? Why can't you just have five? And speaking of politicians, what do you think a political deputy can run civil servants? No, that's why there must be an interlink, which is why there must be a section director who is an official who is currently in the position of being appointed for five years. And all of you sitting here, I'm sure you have mortgages, and this guy is young, married or married, took a mortgage, and now you're putting him in a situation where, after five years, he's gonna have to be overcompetitored, he's changing all sorts of garnitures, and he doesn't know what's gonna happen. I understand you want quality, but one thing you do realize is that it has the other image. Because, as you say, you are fighting corruption, it may be that it may be suggested to him: If you do not tread as we need, you will not win the competition next time. That can happen, too. And I know that every good intention is punished after due diligence, and maybe it was a good intention on your part, but it could also have the other side that it might not just be that it's the good intentions. I think I've done my best to recapitulate. I am terribly sorry that this law is adopted as it is adopted and that the letter of the law is not fulfilled, as we have said, that every law will be passed through a proper legislative process and will be able to express the comments which are affected. Democracy gets its ass kicked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u11	Thank you. I would like another registered, and that is Mrs Iveta Štefanová. Mrs Klára Dostálová will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment here on the amendment to the Civil Service Act. The ruling coalition in the past has called for the depoliticalization of the state service. However, this amendment proposal is rather a step towards its politicalization. The proposal newly introduces a five-year term of office for certain civil service functions. For the continuity and stability of the state service, the possibility of exchanging up to practically the entire management section every five years does not serve much according to the party jurisdiction of the current minister, as permitted by this proposal. However, existing workers will be able to apply repeatedly and re-apply to the tender. The new selection procedures also allow the so-called external experts to enter. Expanding the range of possible applicants for posts in the civil service is certainly a step in the right direction, but I cannot agree that professional practice has been counted since the completion of the required education, and it has been added up all this time. If our aim is to increase the expertise of civil service workers, it is necessary for this professional practice to be as topical as possible. The practice completed, for example, 20 years ago, when a candidate has not worked in the field since then, is certainly not equal to the practice for example in the last five years, i.e. knowledge of current terrain and modern agenda. This will only lead to a reduction of public service expertise. [[11.00 hours]] What is another problem is that according to the proposal, some executives will not be appointed for only five years, but for an indefinite period. In practice, this will mean that a worker who does not defend his post in a tender will remain in the civil service and the state will look for another position for him for up to six months, for which he will receive 80 per cent of his current salary. If he fails to find a suitable location for him, he will receive a considerable severance payment from the state. This unfortunate wording in this proposal will in practice only mean increasing the number of people in the civil service that the State will pay. I also disagree with the expansion of the number of political deputy ministers, which is in practice a kind of promotion of the minister's advisors to the Deputy Ministers' posts, but of course with the salaries of the Deputys and other advantages such as the car, the driver and so on, who, according to the proposed change, will not manage the individual sections, and therefore are practically without a substantial agenda, and especially without responsibilities. All of this will lead to a further increase in the number of people in the civil service and a senseless increase in the financial cost to it. The proposal also changes the section's specialised deputy directors to the head of the section, who, according to this proposal, will be able to represent the minister in the meeting, including in the House, which is, however, contrary to the Constitution, specifically with Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 Constitution of the Czech Republic. Therefore, the SPD supports the proposal to reject this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u13	Thank you, and now the last one entered into the debate, Mrs Klára Dostálová. I'm gonna load up an apology. Mr Antonín Tesařík, from 11.30 pm, apologizes for family reasons. And please, Madame, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the last performer. I would really like to recapitulate, but let me just say this - I did not choose a factual comment on Minister Kupka, through you, Madam Vice-President, because I think we could discuss this a little bit more. I actually agree with him. He said that actually by shortening selection procedures to one round, that we need to get experts from the outside - I sign everything. Of course, that's a step in the right direction, but it's got one big but. I'm just wondering how you're gonna motivate experts into the state administration if they know they're gonna be competing every five years. This means that any new political guarantee can, of course, replace these experts with other experts, and by not actually seeing any stable work for the future, because it can really only be within five years, so you will have great problems with such capacity for the government. I would go back to why we have a service law here in the Czech Republic at all. The Service Act is a so-called condition, or basic condition, for the drawing of European funds. The European Commission has always asked us to ensure three main principles by service law. The first is professionalism, the second is stabilization, and the third is depoliticization. I am afraid... of course, that we are demoting the chief executives of the section, we will have an unlimited number of political representatives, so really first, professionalization - I believe that, as we have agreed on this practice, that it must be in the last fifteen years, not infinitely, sometimes from school, so that I would still consider the professionalisation to be fulfilled, but the other points such as stabilization and depoliticization, that is already a serious point, because it is a matter of stabilizing when we compete every five years, I think it is very brave, and depoliticizing, when we actually accept an unlimited number of political representatives, so I think it will therefore cause a very frown expression within the European Commission as such. Once again, I would ask you to have some sense, and really today, when we are dealing with huge state budget deficits here, today we basically called on Minister Stanjur to give us the reasons for the deficits again, so until this time, to approve an unlimited number of political representatives with cars, we even gave ourselves the benefits for the Deputys right into the law, that is, to have cars available and so on, directly that is in the law, so again I would really appeal to our common sense to support some of the proposals that we have made. What is the political deputy supposed to do? Once again, the political deputy is not part of the state service. He can't drive anybody, no officials, no one like that. He's really supposed to represent the minister on the outside. Where can such a political deputy represent? He can represent the government, of course he can have a deputy for the House, for the Senate, for activities within the European Union, four people. Why, then, without limit? However, we have amendments which, of course, speak of five people who could represent the Minister, even on the basis of - and here I would like to thank once again the petitioner, Mr Benda, by your means, Madam Vice-President, that we were dealing with the opposition, that we were really discussing these things - we have even made a proposal that the political deputy should actually be up to the number of sections, because we respect that each ministry is otherwise large, and that, therefore, when we have the head of the section, we have no more specialised deputys, or we will not have any more, so that the political deputy would guarantee the minister any activity. That is, if I take it to the Ministry of Regional Development, for example, it would be for regional development, for housing policy, for building law. They could really be deputys up to the level of the expert sections at the Ministry. Unfortunately, neither of the committees has yet adopted these proposals, but again I would like to ask you to consider Amendments 1023, which is just up to the number of sections, or 1024 - a maximum of five political representatives. I am very sorry that every five years we did not agree that the so-called automaton could be applied. I'll explain - for example, school directors have it, all the mayors know it. That means if I'm satisfied with the principal of the school, I'm not declaring a tender. I have the right not to announce it, because that would be exactly the steps that could lead to a little stabilization, that the external experts who come to the state administration would and priori did not go there with the fact that I could still be fired every five years, because if I work well, the minister would just say, "No, I'm satisfied with this, I'm not going to announce a tender here. Such an automaton in the administration would save a huge amount of money, because the selection procedures that will take place every five years, because you have set it up there, that must be the selection procedures, that is obviously a very expensive matter. Look at it again with really healthy common sense, because, as you prepared it very quickly, unfortunately, the so-called "slang pool" was not solved - as we all call it in the state administration of the slang pool. That means what's gonna happen? You're gonna hire outsiders, which means they're gonna replace existing officials. Existing civil servants will fall into the so-called swimming pool. We've got them in that pool six months at 80 percent salary, which means unused people waiting for them to run those six months at 80 percent salary, so of course we're going to say goodbye to them. That is, if they worked in the civil service for three years, they will receive three salaries, but if they have worked for more than nine years, they will receive twelve salaries, and we will receive this every five years. So I'm just pointing out the huge impact on the state budget again. On the other hand, I would like to thank you, because by actually preparing the amendment in cooperation and for the practice to be really in the last 15 years, or by extending the deadline to 24 months, these are certainly all good things. But maybe it's time to consider whether or not to download it, quickly complete the vending machine and solve the pool itself, because the impact on the state budget really is huge today. So, once again, please, I appeal - consider approving an unlimited number of political representatives by this time. You have a choice either number five or according to the number of sections, which I think is a very benevolent proposal, and indeed, if the minister wants to have his own person, who guarantees him by some expert judgement the work of a particular section, the level of the deputy to the number of sections would certainly be appropriate. But once again, the political deputy has no responsibility to the civil service, he doesn't run any of those civil servants at all, he's really a fellow minister. That's why I think an unlimited number is really over the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u15	Thank you. The rapporteur, who is now next in the debate, has yet to report. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u16	Thank you, Madam President. All I can do is pick on a co-worker. Please, we were discussing the budget yesterday, and I remember that the government coalition wanted to reduce the number of officials, and I don't understand how the number of officials will be reduced when management positions increase. Then where will these places be taken? The executives, the ones who do the administrative proceedings or something? The current coalition has already increased the number of ministers and their basically service staff and it is number 74 people plus. There's going to be another increase. If that's how someone assumes that numbers are reduced, well, I don't really think so, because my technical thinking gives me that we're still giving a plus, a plus, and no minus. As rapporteur, I will only comment on technical, not political matters, so I felt the need to say this. I would still like to ask, colleagues: there is one amendment that has not been approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee, and this concerns age. Currently, it is an obligation to leave the civil service at the age of 70. I'm not saying that everyone wants to stay until they're 70 years old, some already want to retire early at 60, but let's remember that there are colleagues here and among us who are 70 years old and are very valid members of this House. There are simply people who, even at a high age, have high performances, and we will limit them to that limit. Of course, it's also with the judges. I believe that we should conceptually increase this limit of 70 years to at least 75, not only in this service law, but also in other laws. And I'd like to ask you to start now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u17	Thank you. Mrs Peštová has yet to take action. In the meantime, I'm gonna load an apology. Mr Jakob apologizes at 12 o'clock without giving any reason. And please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to support what my previous speaker said here. I really have a public service practice, and there's really a lot of experts over the age of 70, and just because they reached that limit, we had to say goodbye to them because maybe they were just hired to do certain things after that. I'd really like to ask you to consider moving the line to 75 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u19	I also thank you for keeping time. I'm gonna ask you one last time if there's anyone else checking in? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. And I'll ask the plaintiff if he's interested in the final word? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u20	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because I understand that there is an agreement that we are still to reach a budget statement. I recognise the many reservations that have been made, particularly the conceptual nature. I think that's really how the novel was presented, only one section of the state service is being dealt with. We need to deal with swimming pools, unfortunately, proposals to reduce swimming pools have not been submitted. I would like to support them, but unfortunately they were not presented. I'm prepared to deal with one here in the course of the next year... and I know that the Ministry of the Interior is already preparing a more fundamental and more conceptual amendment, which should keep the civil service in a depolitical position, but at the same time not in a bit of a position as superhumans, who always have everything forever and ever guaranteed. Otherwise, we will be voting here, as voted on the Constitutional Legal Committee, depending on how we have already concluded a gentleman's agreement, which I know does not suit everyone, but is retreating on something. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u21	Thank you. Now, with the opinion, the rapporteur will speak with the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I'd only sum it up briefly. This is a proposal from the Presidents of the five Coalition Clubs, which, as the applicant's representative said, only a certain section of the Service Act, which I, as rapporteur, believe is not entirely appropriate, that this should be dealt with conceptually, moreover, when it is announced that next year another proposal will be submitted to the House, which will be dealt with by the Service Act. However, I too must acknowledge that there has been a mutual negotiation between the coalition and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u23	I also thank you, rapporteur, and, as we are close to the vote, I will arrange for everyone to arrive in the hall. And before we proceed to the vote on the amendments, we should vote on the motion for rejection. [[Newsletter: Procedure?]] Can we first, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, please vote on the motion for rejection and then on the amendments? [[Newsletter: Yes.]] Thank you. I'm already watching my colleagues arrive at the O.R. And to the vote on the motion for rejection, which was made at second reading, I ask the appellant's opinion. [[The designer disagrees.]] Thank you. And the committee? [[Rapporteur: Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: Not recommended.]] I am therefore opening the vote on the motion for a rejection. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 99 vote, 161 Members and Members were enrolled, for 72, against 84. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. And we can now proceed to the vote on the amendments. [[Newsletter: First, the procedure.]] That is correct, and I will first ask you to introduce us to the procedure, then, of course, to present the various amendments and to give opinions on them before the vote. So, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u24	Legally, technical modifications have not been made, so we do not need to include them in the procedure. So procedure: Design A, B, C2, in case of approval is unvoting D1, C1 and C5. Proposal D1, in the case of approval, is non-voting C1 and C5. Proposal C1, in the case of approval, C5 is non-voting. Proposal C5, proposal C3, in the case of approval, is non-voting C6 and C7. Proposal C6, in the case of approval, is non-voting C7, C7, C4, D2, E1, E2, E3 and the law as a whole. Otherwise, you can also find this proposal in the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u25	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask: there's room now if anyone wants to propose a change of procedure. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on this procedure. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of this procedure proposal? Who's against it? In the 100 vote, 161 voted for 157, against 0, or the draft procedure was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u26	So the amendment of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, otherwise submitted by colleague Jakub Michálek, concerns foreign service. This is a projection of terminology changes. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: Recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u27	And the plaintiff's position? [[- Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote 101, 161 Members voted in favour of 159, against 0. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u28	Proposal B. It is a proposal in the system under number 1031, submitted by Mr Jan Jakob. This is a law on the protection of public health and the projection of terminology changes. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u29	Designer? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 102, 161 votes were cast, for 159, against 0. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u30	Design C2 in the system listed under number 943. It is Zuzana Ožanová's amendment, Helena Válková and Taťána Malá. It is the establishment of a term of office only with the Supreme Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, the Personnel Director of the Civil Service Section, the Head of Service, the Head of the Section and the Director of the Section, that is, the release of the directors of the trade unions from the competition. In the case of approval, D1, C1 and C5 shall be non-voting. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u31	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the 103 vote, 161 votes were cast, for 73, against 85. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u32	Amendment D1 was read by Oulehlová Outlová under number 1035. This is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal, setting up a term of office only with the Supreme Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, the Personnel Director of the Civil Service Section and the Head of Service Offices, that is, the release of the head of the section. In the case of approval, C1 and C5 are non-voting. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u33	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 104, 161 votes were cast, for 73, against 86. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u34	C1, Amendment 941 to Members of Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Válková and Taťána Malá. This is an adjustment to the transitional provision to ensure that recompetitiveness is only five years from the date of application of this amendment. In the case of approval, the C5 is non-voting. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u35	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the 105 vote, 161 Members voted in favour of 75, against 84. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u36	Amendment C5 in the system listed under number 1022, proposal by Klára Dostálová, Alena Schillerová and Zuzana Ožanová. This is an extension of the period for recompetitiveness from the proposed 18 months to 2 years. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u37	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 106, 160 Members voted in favour of 157, against 0. This proposal was adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u38	Amendment 944 to Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Válková and Taťána Malá, the number of deputys is up to four. In the case of approval, the C6 and C7 are non-voting. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u39	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 107, 160 Members voted in favour of 73, against 85. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u40	Amendment C6, press under number 1023, proposal by Klára Dostálová and Zuzana Ožanová. The number of deputy may not exceed two or the number of senior directors of the section. In the case of approval, the C7 is non-voting. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u41	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 108, 160 Members voted in favour of 73, against 84. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u42	Proposal C7 under number 1024, proposal by Klára Dostálová and Zuzana Ožanová, number of deputys up to five. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u43	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 109, 160 Members voted in favour of 72, against 85. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u44	C4 conducted in the system under number 1021, design by Klára Dostálová, Alena Schillerová and Zuzana Ožanová, elimination of the time during which it is possible to prove the necessary practice for the appointment of the stage presented, to demonstrate the necessary practice over the past fifteen years. According to the proposal, practice is sufficient at any time unlimited. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u45	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the 110 vote, 160 Members voted in favour of 158, against 0. This proposal was adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u46	The proposal D2 was submitted by Renata Oulehlová under number 1036. It is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's amendment, the age limit for termination of employment from the current 70 to 75 years. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u47	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In voting number 111, 160 Members voted in favour of 72, against 84. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u48	Proposal E1 under number 945, Amendment Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Válková and Taťána Malá, deferring the effectiveness of the Act by one year to 1 January 2024. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u49	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the 112 vote, 160 Members voted in favour of 73, against 85. This proposal was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u50	E2, under number 941, Amendment by Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Válková and Taťána Malá. Time limit for submission of applications to the tender from 7 days to 10 days. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u51	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. And in this vote 113, 160 Members voted for 73, against 85. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u52	E3, under number 1040, amendment by Taťána Malá and Zuzana Ožanová, deadline for fiction delivery from 3 to 5 days. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u53	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] And I started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Let him push the button and raise his hand. In the vote number 114, 160 Members and Members were enrolled, for 158, against 0. This proposal was adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u54	Amendment F, which has been read all over the plenary, that is, not in the system. This is a cancellation of points 52 and 53. This concerns the matter of child care and the performance of the service from another place. Opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Committee: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u55	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I have begun the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In the 115 vote, 160 Members voted for 88, against 2. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. And, if I am not mistaken, we have dealt with all the amendments, haven't we, rapporteur? [[Yes.]] So we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended, pursuant to House Press 215, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started the vote. [[Opinions, please.]] Opinions don't have to be said by the law. I therefore declare (vote 116) confusing, so let it not enter into this. Once again, I am opening the vote on the resolution tabled on the whole bill. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Let him push the button and raise his hand. In the vote number 117, 160 Members voted in favour of 86, against 74, and I note that the bill has been approved. I hereby thank the representatives of the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur and conclude the discussion of this point. After the end of the point, before we proceed to the next point, I will read the apologies received, when Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 11.40 for family reasons, then Mr Pavel Kašník apologizes from 11.30 for work reasons, Mr Jiří slavík from 12.45 pm for work reasons. And now Minister Zbyněk Stanjura is with priority right and follows with priority right Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u56	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. For work reasons, I could not have been here for the first 30 minutes of today's meeting when I had some videoconferencing with our foreign partners, but during the break I took advantage of the opportunity to negotiate with President Schillerová and promised to say a few words about the budget amendment, the State Budget 2022. On Monday, on one of the TV shows, I announced that the funds that the government has decided to release in the context of the temporary crisis framework, especially for large companies, but also for medium-sized companies or small companies that have energy-intensive operations, will still be in the budget this year, was the result of the amendment made by Mr. Chairman of the Economic Committee, Mr. Ivan Adamec, and, at the same time, the proposal includes an increase in spending on an austerity tariff of 7 billion. First, I will explain why it was not in the draft amendment law, which entered the Chamber of Deputies on 17 August. Logically now - yesterday we finished second reading. The final decision on the austerity tariff was made by the government on September 1st, if memory does not confuse me, in the first week after the holidays, so I hope that Wednesday was September 1st, and the original proposal envisaged that the austerity tariff would be divided evenly into 12 months, i.e. 25 per cent in 2022 and 75 per cent in 2023, because, as we all know, it was stipulated, it was decided that it would be for the period from 1 October this year to 30 September next year. At that time, when we were preparing the material, there were demands in public space that the aid be higher this year. The government met these demands and the government's final decision was 40 percent, which means not linearly, but 40 percent in 2022 and 60 percent in 2023. But since there was already a draft amendment to the state budget, about the 8 billion that are in favour of our households, of course, had to be incorporated into this amendment. There was no intention, it just couldn't be brought together in time. Similarly, the government decided at the time when it decided to stop electricity prices for small customers, that is, all households, for those who provide public services and for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are on low voltages, similarly for gas, that is, for all consumers whose annual consumption is less than 630 megawatt hours, so they - within this package, the government decided that it would make full use of the possibility of a temporary crisis framework and there those costs are estimated at CZK 30 billion. Again, it was about two weeks later before we sent the draft amendment to the state budget. We could have budgeted this money in 2022 and 2023. In agreement and after negotiations with the business unions, with the Confederation of Industry and Transport and the Chamber of Economics, we agreed, by mutual agreement, that we will put it in this year's amendment, to the amendment of this year's budget, to make sure that the money is approved and, if necessary, to pay part of the money according to the rules laid down by the Czech Government, but which are already used under European rules in 2002. That's actually the reason for the second part, the fiscally higher part. For both of those sums - if anyone thought it was incorrect, I apologize - I tried to explain that there was no intention. It's just that time is so turbulent that everything can't always be prepared for one bill. Sometimes you react with delays and add other things. The debate will, of course, be at third reading, but I will try to express my conviction and my estimation that both of these measures will receive wider support in the Chamber of Deputies than only government Members, because the 8 billion is in favour of small customers. This means that the austerity tariff will be 40 percent this year and, on that basis, backup to households is already being reduced in these days and weeks. We've already released the funds with other budgetary measures, then we'll return them. [[11.40 hours]] And so do I. The Chamber of Deputies will approve the mobilisation of funds within the temporary crisis framework for large companies and energy-intensive companies in the amount of 30 billion. If anyone considers it incorrect, I apologize once again, there was no intention. I believe that these state budget expenditures are justified and that when we vote on this in the third reading, it will receive broad support in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u57	Thank you, and with the right of priority - your Vice-President is signed - you prefer, there is an agreement, please, Mrs Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u58	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Thank you to the Minister of Finance, I think it's fair to thank you. I'm not gonna forgive myself without trying to torture him here right now, and that's what I expected yesterday. It was supposed to fall last night, if I'm going to forgive that it didn't fall at the press conference on Monday and so on. I myself have been Minister of Finance for four years, of which over two years in a very turbulent, crisis time, so probably few people understand you as I do, what you're in and what you're dealing with, I know that very well. But it was just supposed to go down here yesterday. We shouldn't have found out from the system that there's another 38 billion. I understand that $7 billion is actually at the expense of the mandatorial expenses, as Minister Jurečka presented yesterday? Which is also incomprehensible, but I'm going to be generous now, 30 billion is to help big businesses, I understand that, and then I saw 8 billion on top of the state debt? [[He's turning to Minister Stanjur.]] It was in the proposal. Oh, on the austerity tariff, I understand, that means the 10 that were supposed to be paid without renewables this year. Well, I get it, I get it, so bottom line, it's 45 billion at the expense of the deficit. And it's fair to say, we will, of course, consult the club, what will have our support, what will not be. It's possible we'll support this, but it's fair to say that the deficit, and you've probably got a five-calition agreement, you've got a majority here, and for 2022, it's going to be 375 billion. I'll take that explanation, but like I said, it was supposed to happen yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u59	Thank you, and now with my application, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u60	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to step out of the position of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies for the last time, with practically the right of priority that Vice-President of the House has. I would like to tell you that it has been a great experience for me and a great honour to run this Chamber of Deputies. I tried to drive it professionally, impartially, honestly and fairly as I try to do all things. My conscience is really clear. I've never done business with anyone, I've never done business, I've done nothing. And when some of you put a rush on me on the day of distrust and blamed me for not knowing what would happen in five or three years - I couldn't even know - I really don't want any of you to get into the same situation that I got into. The absurdity of this charge really is not worth commenting on. I would like to thank all the Members, even those of the government who supported and supported me, who come to me and say that this is very unfair, unfair, some even use that we are going back to the 1950s. Ladies and gentlemen, I really wish politics wasn't crap, I'm sure you want it too. And it's all about us. I would like to assure you that, while I am in the position of a Member, I will continue to work, defend interests not only of the Karlovy Vary Region, and I wish you all to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-001-110.u61	Thank you. This allows us to move on to the next item on today's agenda, and that is the point.
