ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to the State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws /house print 236/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam President, colleagues. So let me briefly state the House's press number 236, the amendment to Act No. 589 on social security contributions. The amendment of this law seeks to bring employers' motivation to a greater extent to implement part-time jobs here in our Czech working environment. It is a topic that has been discussed here for many years, called for by employers, called for by employees, people who are in specific life situations, and several times in the past was quite close to making any such modification and implementation, but failed to reach the end. This proposal therefore requires us to create conditions where we will motivate employers in the form of a 5% discount on insurance premiums based on assessment bases for workers in work or in the service, and this will concern a clearly specified group of persons: this will concern citizens over 55 years of age. This will be the case for citizens and employees who, therefore, care for a child under the age of 10 who is a parent or who is in the care of a child under the decision of the competent authority, or who is a child under the age of 10 or who cares for a close person under the age of 10 or who is dependent on the assistance of another person at stage I or who is dependent on the assistance of another person at stage II, III or IV, or who is a student and is assessed under the Pension Insurance Act, or who is a requalifier under the Employment and Discount Act 12 months after the start, or also a disabled person under the Employment Act or a person under the age of 21. The staff member shall not study the length of his time, even if he is fully employed he shall be entitled to a discount. With the exception of an employee under 20 years of age, the condition for applying a discount to insurance employers for such employees shall be a contract of shorter working or working hours than the prescribed weekly working or service hours, with such fixed working or service hours being at least 8 hours and, however, not more than 30 hours per week of all employment and service contracts with the same employer. The staff member shall not be entitled to a reduction if the staff member's assessment base is more than 1,5 times the average wage, or the staff member's worked time, including periods considered to be work with the same employer, exceeds 138 hours in the calendar month, or the average hourly income of the employee from which the social security premium is paid is higher in the calendar month than the established limit of the average hourly income derived from the limit of 1,5 times the average income calculated at a maximum part-time of 30 hours. This measure restricts the possibility of obtaining a discount on employees' premiums with higher income by reducing their income without reducing their income, or is an employee with disabilities who is in employment with an employer recognised as an employer in a protected labour market, or is an employee referred to in the monthly summary of the costs of reimbursement of employees' wages for claiming to pay a contribution at the time of partial work, the so-called cursarbeit. Furthermore, the provision of multiple employment discounts in the employment or service of a part-time employee is excluded. The discount comes from only one - one - job. Although more such employment is carried out with the same employer and the total of all posts is not higher than 30 hours per week, the premium discount is due only to one job that the employer determines. For various employers, several part-time jobs. Only one of these employers can apply the premium discount for such an employee, the one who first announced the intention to apply the discount to the employees of the Czech Social Security Administration. Furthermore, the condition for entitlement to a discount is that an employer who decides to apply a premium discount will report this intention to the Czech Social Security Administration. The employer will technically apply a premium discount to an overview of the amount of the premiums it submits to the relevant district social security authority. The discount shall be deducted from the premiums paid for the relevant calendar month. At the same time, the law provides for the means of demonstrating the individual reasons for applying the premium discount and provides for the employer's obligations of registration and information, including the obligation to inform the employee that a discount is applied to him and the staff member's obligation to cooperate in applying the discount by the employer, including the obligation to communicate to the employer the appointment of an additional reduction to which another employer could apply the discount. [[17,00 hours]] The Czech Social Security Administration will keep relevant records of employees and employers. Communication of the Czech Social Security Administration with employers will take place electronically with guaranteed identity. Partial follow-up arrangements are implemented in related laws, namely the Social Services Act, which extends the scope of the reasons for which the Labour Office issues a certificate of the time of care for a person dependent on the assistance of another person, on the issue of such a certificate also for the purpose of granting a premium discount. Furthermore, in the Employment Act, which complements the provisions on the issue of a certificate of retraining. Furthermore, in the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security, which complements the social security authorities' entitlement to require the necessary communications also for the purposes of checking the contribution of insurance premiums. The effectiveness of the draft law is proposed on the first day of the seventh calendar month following its publication. The technical possibilities of implementing the draft law at the Czech Social Security Administration and at the IT systems of employers are taken into account. Financial impacts are estimated from the point of view of the outage on insurance premiums of between CZK 1.9 billion and CZK 3.9 billion per year. However, we are assuming that we will be able to activate more than a few tens of thousands of people from the groups we mentioned at the outset. If this number exceeds more than 30,000 people who start working on those part-time jobs, the assumption is that this outage on insurance will compensate the state. With each higher increase, it will be the benefit of the state and, above all, the benefit of the economy, when the labour market, companies, employers will get additional people for vacant jobs, which are currently a problem that hinders development, or one of the problems that also hinder the development of the economy and Czech companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u4	Once again, good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Minister Jurečka presented quite in detail the Government's proposal for a law on social security contributions and contributions to state employment policy, their adjustments and other related laws. So, as rapporteur, I'm just going to mention the basic parameters and just a few notes beyond that. As the Minister has already mentioned, this proposal aims to improve the conditions on the Czech labour market, in terms of support for the short-term work of specific persons mentioned here by the Minister. I will mention only very quickly 55+ people, people who care or care about a person close to them, people with disabilities, young people under 21 years of age, students and some others. The aim is to support this group on the labour market. This is also based on the not-quite-flattering statistics that the Czech Republic has just compared to other countries. I'll only introduce some countries. For example, Germany, which has a labour market share of 27,9 %, Austria 28,7 %, while the Czech Republic is just below 6%. This means that this proposal aims to provide more support for the reduced jobs in the labour market. Of course, at a time when we are facing an energy crisis, big inflation, I think it's all the more important. However, this proposal is not only aimed at this crisis period, but I believe it will bring profits to the next period. I firmly believe - and this is also the aim of this government proposal - that more employees will be able to get into the labour market. We know that companies in the Czech labour market are very demanding for employees in some jobs, and sometimes the blockade is that they are afraid, or that they have some barriers to employing them on a short-time basis. We firmly believe that the premium discount will be the incentive factor. In its government statement, the government committed itself to further working to improve the labour market situation. This means that I believe that this is not the last proposal that should improve the flexibility of the Czech labour market, and that this is not the last proposal that would also improve the status of an employee in terms of aligning work, personal and family life. This bill is proposed in a shortened regime pursuant to § 90 para. 2. This is all at the moment as a rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask you to take your place at the rapporteur's desk. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Šafránková has so far signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to present our position to the SPD. In the long term, we are promoting the setting of system employment support for part-time jobs for those groups of people who are most at risk in the labour market and who are most suited to this form of employment because of the need to reconcile working life with family life. This is, of course, the most important concern for parents of young pre-school children who want to return to work gradually after parental leave. However, it is also about promoting the employment of citizens at a close pre-retirement age or those who want to work voluntarily at a retirement age. Here it is crucial to set up support for employees and employers so that it is mutually beneficial for both parties to conclude a part-time contract. We consider the form contained in our programme to be the most appropriate form of such support. The point is that preschool children's parents can work on short-term jobs of 30 hours a week, receiving full wages as if they were working full 40 hours a day. The difference in wage costs would be borne by private employers by the State. This would be a system solution that would not harm either side of this working relationship. In particular, this would be a solution, unlike a government proposal that would not bring about a loss of money in a pension account, so it would not mean a decrease in pension insurance with additional effects, for example in the future on pension payments. That is why I would like to appeal here to the Minister to take all necessary steps to ensure that the proposal to support the part-time employment we agree with also takes steps to replace the failure of funds in the interim system primarily intended for our pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u7	Thank you, Madame. Now, with priority rights, Vice-President Richterová has applied. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u8	Thank you very much for the floor. I would just like to add that this is actually a law that would help many groups of residents. A lot has been said here. Just to make it very clear, I would like to poke out - because I think it is one of the very important standards and that it can be a great positive change for our society, the greater support of part-times - to whom it can all help. The lower taxation of part-time jobs, which we also had in the joint Pirates and Mayors programme clearly described that we want it, is simply the programme priority of our government as a whole and of our individual parties. This made it clear that this would simplify the situation of young parents, families with young children, and make it easier to move gradually into employment, because it is very difficult to combine work and care with young children in particular. At the same time, I think that many of you know women who wouldn't like to lose qualifications that would like to keep in touch with the field, just those small part-time jobs aren't going to pay off for employers today. Job costs are often fixed no matter how big the job is. So, knowing all of this, I'm really glad that we're going to offer this to parents to facilitate family reconciliation, care, and work. Abroad, it is well seen how people use it, the smooth possibilities, the smooth transitions from jobs to really small ones with small children to, like, three-quarters with larger ones. 'Cause it's hard to take care of anyway. That's on the one side of the family life spectrum. But then, of course, it is the situation of people of a mature age, when one would like to work again, perhaps using experience, but we have the system again set up for such a "everything or nothing" today. It often happens that people from full-time work are fully retired, even though they would still like to say that they could do part-time work. [[17.10 hours]] We now believe that the offer, the attractiveness of the possibility of part-time jobs for employers will increase, and that it will also encourage the social trend, not to stop working at the part-time by hitting the possibility of retirement, considering, taking advantage of the possibility of raising the pension a little bit more in the future, because a person will volunteer a little longer. And this smaller taxation of part-time jobs, which in the finals can increase the incomes of seniors who will want, is another positive effect, and finally it is something that goes simply in line with the trend to promote freedom of choice. I would just like to point that out in conclusion. I am deeply convinced that we are to allow people to choose different ways of life, and this is the extension of this palette of options based solely on volunteering and on the perception that in the Czech Republic, as has been said here, compared to many other countries where people have similar life dreams, similar ambitions and even similar numbers of children, but we are very different in the very possibilities of matching work and care. This is the way to help parents of young children in general, but especially women. And I'm very happy for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u9	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? Yes, the rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u10	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a brief statement to the KDU-ČSL club on this amendment. I am very pleased that it was possible to arrange this bill at the government level within the government's five-calice. This may seem like a small change, but I am very convinced that this is the first important swallow to be able to introduce and strengthen really greater flexibility in the labour market in the Czech Republic. So thank you very much for being able to agree on this, thank you also for the fact that - at least from the croupa I perceive that this is an interesting topic also for the opposition, and I would just like to remind you that if we consider this the first swallow, when we expect that we can get some of those vulnerable groups into the labour market, whether they are people of senior age, people caring for a person close by, mothers from small children, disabilities and so on, I firmly believe that we can also agree on some other steps. And I'll remind you of some of the ones we served with colleagues from ODS, from TOP 09, from Pirates, from STAN in the last term. This applies, for example, to health insurance for short-term jobs, where people who do not have a minimum wage and do not have a minimum assessment base, so every increase in the minimum wage, which in recent years is a trend, so they always have a decline in their real wages with each increase in the minimum wage. And I firmly believe when I see the Minister of Health here, Válek, that this will be one of the other topics that we will be in the government coalition, and I firmly believe that even across the political spectrum, we will discuss. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing further measures aimed at improving labour market flexibility. This also applies to the amendment, which has already been here in the last parliamentary term as an MP and concerns the home office. That's another thing we need to work out legislatively. We know that at the time of the covid it was an institute that was used very often, but we do not have a clear legal anchor to it and we need -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u11	Ambassador, I'm very sorry. I'll ask my colleagues to keep their voices down. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u12	We need to be able to have more short-term jobs, have more flexibility in the labour market, and better balance the professional, personal and family life, so we need to motivate both employers and employees. And I firmly believe that the government that has committed itself to these actions will continue to do so over the next period, and I would very much like this amendment, which we are discussing here today, to go through the legislative process and indeed to start the process with greater flexibility of the Czech labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? Isn't that the case, I end the general debate and ask whether there is an interest in final words? Mr. Secretary? He's interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u14	Thank you, I'm just very brief. Thank you for the debate that was factual and concrete. I think that if we can start applying this into practice here, it's a big shift in the support of those vulnerable groups of people we want to support in this form, and I believe that there's really potential for a few tens of thousands of people to activate for the labour market, to offer them this opportunity here, both when caring for a person close to us, about children or people who are already at a pre-retirement or retirement age, how to activate them on the labour market. So I think this is really a very solid shift in the labour market in the Czech Republic, as has already been said here. I will be glad if we continue with the other things related to this agenda, as well as the health insurance area that falls within the Gesture of Minister Válek, but then the other things that are related to, for example, the issue of family and working life in terms of service availability, what we are working on today in terms of investment in children's groups, building these capacities so that the trend that we have managed to follow here in the last 12 years or so, increasing birth rates in the Czech Republic, when there was a birth rate of about 1.14 a child per woman about 12 years ago, so today we get to third place in Europe, when we have a birth rate of approximately 1.8 child per woman, and actually there is an environment that is improving, more enjoyable for parents, but also for those other people. So thank you for the support, and I'll be glad if it really improves the quality of their lives for the people we're helping.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u15	Thank you, Minister. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? He's not interested. Now, since the objection has not been raised, we will decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will bring forward the motion for a resolution, and I will call on my colleagues from the lobby: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 236 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' And before I vote, I'll read the apology. Minister Lipavský has apologized since 16.45 for work reasons. We would therefore now proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 7, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 157, against no one. The motion has been approved, so we have adopted the motion for a resolution. So I am opening up a detailed debate and asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. The minister isn't interested? He doesn't. The rapporteur does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u16	I've only had a short time. I thank the honourable House that in this case the veto did not apply to the proceedings in § 90 para. 2, so that we can vote today finalally on this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-026-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. We would now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws, according to the Chamber of Press 236'. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? Who's against it? In voting number 8, 169 Members and Members have signed up, for 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have given our consent to the bill, and I conclude with this discussion of this point. Madam Members, we have discussed the programme set out for the 26th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which I conclude with this, and I remind you that in ten minutes we will continue the suspended 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. at 17.30. Thank you.
