ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u1	4. Government Bill on Product Market Supervision and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (Product Market Supervision Act) /Departmental Press 107/ - Second Reading Once again, I will ask Minister Síkela to make a proposal on behalf of the Government. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce in the third place the draft law on product market surveillance and on the amendment of certain related laws. This draft law was drawn up following a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 2019/1020 on market surveillance and in accordance with the rules. The new Regulation has brought about harmonisation of the rules for the exercise of market surveillance in products, effective and effective cooperation between supervisory authorities in the enforcement of the legislation laying down requirements for products in the scope of Annex 1 to this Regulation, rules for the control of products at the external borders of the European Union and the strengthening of cooperation between supervisory authorities and customs authorities. The Regulation became fully applicable on 16 July 2021. As I have already informed you in my first reading speech, it is necessary to implement certain provisions of the regulation in national law, although this is a directly applicable regulation of the European Union. The main reason for this is that the area of market surveillance falls exclusively within the competence of the Member States of the European Union and only the Member States are responsible for the institutional arrangements of supervision and for determining the powers of the supervisory authorities in their territory. For implementation into our legal order, the method was chosen to create a single law applicable to supervision of all the products concerned under the regulation on market surveillance. However, implementation through one law also requires the implementation of appropriate changes in some other laws. For this reason, it is proposed that the necessary amendments be made to the other eight legislations. At the hearing at first reading, the bill was ordered for discussion in the Economic Committee. This took place on 14 April 2022, and the Economic Committee recommended by its resolution to discuss and approve the draft law as amended by the Government Bill. Given that this is an adaptation regulation, which contains provisions without which the supervisory regulation is not fully applicable at national level, even since the relevant legislation of the European Union has already taken full effect, I would like to ask you, honourable Members, to support this proposal at today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House press number 107/1. I will ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Jiří Hájek, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u4	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As mentioned here, the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee discussed proposal 14. 4. and issued the following resolution: Resolution of the Economic Committee of the 7th meeting of 14 April 2022 on the Government Bill on Product Market Supervision and on the amendment of certain related laws, House press 107. [[Act on Product Market Supervision]] Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the interpretation of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Silvana Jirotková, reports by Mr Jiří Hájek and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House Press 107 as amended by the Government Bill; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee; And finally IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now opening a general debate to which Mrs Balaštíková has signed up. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u6	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to come up with a question... I understand that this is only an implementation of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the product market in order to harmonise certain regulations and powers for supervisory authorities, but I would quite welcome it when we are already opening this law so that not only the competences and responsibilities of the European Parliament and of the Council may appear in it, but also the possibility of passing on various information, because, and now I am heading back to agriculture and food industry, because it happens to us that if there is no equal competence in individual supervisory authorities in different countries, then information from these supervisory authorities is not even passed on. And now I'm headed for, like, our supervisory authority of the UOHS right now. So maybe then we didn't really prove that it was illegal aid. I would like to make use of this law, and I kind of miss it there, that we did not deal in depth with this, especially when the employees of the Ministry of Industry and Trade knew about this problem, because we were constantly discussing it during the former parliamentary periods, that, in fact, the competence on the part of Germany, because most of those German products are not here, and we were unable to prove that, in fact, the price policy is based on the fact that the competence of the individual institutions and the exchange of information regarding the results of supervision is diverse. But I see here that we have a lot of responsibilities, but there is one duty missing so that we can use the competent results of the supervisory authorities' work, because this issue has not been addressed. I think it is a bit unfair policy on the part of the first 15 countries in the European Union, that it actually gives us great responsibilities. I understand it, it is positive for consumers, of course, we provide him with some kind of safety, but I would like to extend the possibility of passing on the results of individual checks, so that things that are on the European market and which we should rather consider not to be aid, but as a vice, because there is not really the possibility of exchanging this information in order to continue this actually control activity and to demonstrate some unfair practices by other countries, concerning aid, which in some way then regulates the final final price on those products. So I miss the fact that our Ministry of Industry and Trade would actually deal with this. We're at second reading. I remember it here because there was actually a round-table discussion last week on the subcommittee on food, animal production. And there we once again mentioned this impossibility of our competent authorities to prove certain things when we impose obligations on them, but they actually have no advantage in proving some unfair ones - I don't want to say practices, but simply illegal support from other countries. I come from the fact that, of course, our economy might not allow such support. However, we would like to talk about having the same responsibilities, so that we all have the same rights. We would then be able to prove that this is what our right is being violated and that the single market, as we call it, is not so completely united. So if the Ministry of Industry - and the Minister, when he is here, I would like to discuss this issue with his Deputys, or the UOHS, the Director, called on to do so to discuss the competences, and then to demonstrate certain things that should be under the authority, because it is a distortion of competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u7	Yes. A colleague named Nacher has yet to report to the general debate. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, in the permanence of my views and views on consumer protection and those supervisory authorities, as I am talking about it, would have had in this question to the Minister, using our second reading. As has already been said, the aim of this draft law is to implement the European Parliament's regulation, I will not read the figures, where it is mainly the designation of the central liaison office and the establishment of its task. The establishment of certain powers of the supervisory authorities is therefore essential to say so that all supervisory authorities have the same minimum set of powers in the market surveillance of products falling within the harmonised sphere. It's okay. The setting of the measures and the procedure for imposing them in the event of a breach of requirements, in other words, there are actually other, say, obligations on those supervisory authorities, and this is brought into line with the regulation of the European Parliament and the European Council. My question will be pretty simple - and I'm consistent with this because it's already a few things - if it shows up in some way in the personnel security of the supervisory authorities and the sophomore in their budget. And here I would remind you that I proposed an increase in funds in the budget for 2023, for example for the Czech Television or the ERO. But he is a general problem, of course it also concerns the CHOI and other bodies of this type. And since it's already a number of standards, and now it doesn't really matter if it's the implementation of the regulation, or if it's one of our amendments in connection with, like, the special tax or the levy, so if all of this is actually taken into account in any way in the budgets of the supervisory authorities? And if they can do all of this, or at the end, it won't just end in paper as a new implementation, but on the other hand, there won't be the increased capacity and demands in terms of personnel and finance. So I would just ask if the Minister can answer me, because it is essential that we not just end up with formalism, but that, as a result of this implementation, we really bring something to the consumers. And you know that I have this consistent view of things. It's not some kind of psychic question here, but it's about the consumer protection area, and that when the consumer knows where to turn, so that the organ, if I simplify it a lot, so that people can prosecute, that people can really help the consumer there, and it doesn't just stay on paper. Thank you very much for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u9	Thank you. Now we have a factual point. Mrs Peštová will speak with a point of fact. Your two minutes, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u10	I, too, would like to - thank you, Mr President - I too would like to join the request. I have recently dealt with the problem of one applicant who was given an inadequate fine for a real offense, which read some 300 crowns, even since the Czech Trade Inspection. When I looked into history, she never had a problem. On the contrary, it concerned that the consumer bought something in her business, even if the price changed during the course of the change, so the applicant, or the consumer who bought it, so he turned to the Czech Trade Inspection, although he was taught that he did not have to buy the product. Yet she bought it, but by the fact that the price she had previously announced was different, the Czech Trade Inspectorate of course intervened and got a fine of almost 20,000. Like it is inadequate that the product was overpriced by 200 crowns. I would rather ask if, if the Minister - me, because I also met with it at the Ministry, that in each region, when we had Czech environmental inspection, each treated it differently, some reconciliation of those, the trade inspection, so that in certain cases they would simply do the same, because in another inspection, perhaps the fine would not be this high, it would be significantly lower. So if there is any methodological instruction, how, or any methodological instruction towards those Czech inspections, to proceed equally in those individual cases, and not that in one region you will receive a fine of CZK 1,000 and in another region you will receive a fine of CZK 20,000 for the same offence. I'm just saying, that's more of a request from me and an appeal, because when their competences are widened, it's logical that they won't have experience with it yet, and it would be nice if the methodological instruction towards the Czech Trade Inspection went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u12	Well, I'll try to deal with the questions as they walked, one at a time. First of all, Mrs Balaštíková's questions. The whole law does not apply to food, the law applies only to products defined by the regulation and supervision is over compliance with technical requirements, not prices. As far as the coordination of cooperation between the institutions is concerned, it follows directly from the regulation, so it is not about public support. Mr Nacher's questions. Again, this is not about consumer protection, it is secondary in the whole matter. I am aware of the tense situation in a number of supervisory bodies, where, of course, we are struggling with increasing demands and some under-equippedness, let it apply to personnel, professional, or technical in the sense of some IT support. Specifically - and this is related to Mrs Peštová's question - when it comes to the Czech Trade Inspection, I will, of course, try to ensure that all these institutions are sufficiently equipped with what they are responsible for, what their responsibilities are and what their competences are. And it has to do with coordinating a unified approach. And here I agree with you, Madame, that it is simply not possible in one region to make decisions in any way and in another region. It's just that the organs have to be predictable. On the one hand, we must send prevention and possibly support to that market, but on the other hand, to a certain extent the same rigour when it comes to certain violations, so that there may be no discussion as to why we are strict and very generous somewhere. Because then, of course, it leads to some doubts that they are all measured equally. So this too is one of the tasks for the new management of the Czech Trade Inspection. And, of course, I'll keep an eye on it and try to make sure that all the organs that are in my gesture proceed in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u13	Yes, thank you. Mrs Peštová, Mrs Balaštíková, will be prepared. Please, ma'am... So, Mrs Balaštíková, a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u14	Well, hello again, colleagues, colleagues. Minister, perhaps through the President, although I do not really have to, you have made a summary here, but my speech was not about that, as you have just summarised. I told you, I understand why the law is opening. And I have told you that I would like the law to include the obligations of individual competent authorities from different countries to exchange information so that our supervisory authority of the ÚOHS can, on the basis of this information, investigate certain matters which are detrimental to the economic market. I didn't say it was actually in the renewal of the law. So please, nicely, we didn't quite understand each other. Maybe it's just a piece of advice, if you'd like to talk to the UOHS representatives about what we're dealing with. Because there's no obligation to exchange information, unless they're exactly the same authority. We came across this when we were checking for illegal support and damage to the economy, which would be within the competence of the UOHS. And when we wanted it on the German side, the UOHS didn't actually have the same competence organ. And there is a problem somewhere in this law, or at all in the EU territory, that they do not exchange this information that the UOHS needs to demonstrate the unauthorized support and distortion of competition. So please, that's what my performance sounded like. I no longer expect you to come forward, but I will be very happy if you talk to the representatives of the UOHS, what a problem they have to prove that there is a breach of our economic market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u15	The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u16	I'll be - thank you for the word - I'll be quick. Thank you for being so helpful. And, of course, when I said that, that's exactly what you said or how you identified it. Every clerk's got an administrative angle. And the way he decides, then, of course, he does. And if, I say, you have given me some promise here that the methodical instruction will be, which has assured me that this will happen because I say we had exactly the same problems in our country and turned to us as part of the Czech environmental inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u17	Well, thank you for keeping time. This is Minister Síkela. Please. We are still in the general debate and will prepare...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u18	I must afford to respond, and I apologise to Mrs Peštová, through Mr President, I did not give any promise of any direction. I just want to say, we have an interresor group at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which, of course, brings together supervisory authorities, but supervisory authorities can't receive any binding instructions from anyone. But, of course, we can, let's say, direct and appeal in the sense that, in what I have mentioned, this means that something similar should be done, so that the supervision is transparent in terms of sanctions and that, let's just say, some violations are dealt with in a comparable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u19	Thank you. Mrs Peštová also made a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u20	Once again, Minister, I don't think we understand each other. I know you can't control the supervisory authorities because they're the authorities that are just set up to control them. I understand that. But those supervisory authorities, within their competences, make decisions. And it's from the edge, it's different. This is what you said you would receive a fine of CZK 1,000 in one region, for the same offense in another region you will receive a fine of CZK 5,000 or CZK 10,000. So I just wanted it to unite, because, of course, the practice is already there, so it's visible and it's obvious who made the decisions in the individual regions, so it's just consistent. That's the methodical instruction I was telling you to actually take those decisions historically and say no so that in one region it should be decided this way and in the other region it was decided otherwise. That was my appeal to all those Czech inspections in the individual regions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u21	Yes, thank you for keeping time. It will now be Mr Nacher's turn in the general debate. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u22	Thank you for the floor. The way I'd deal with it, you're both actually right, because I feel there's been a misunderstanding, because, of course, the Minister explained it that way. The moment he said on the mic that the Ministry had somehow interfered with the decision-making of the supervisory authorities, that would be a real problem. On the other hand, the unification, there's some sort of predictableness. Yes, you're both right. I'm glad I can put it that way. And I only have one last comment on what you said before, Minister. I dare say that in the YES movement and in our club, which is the largest here, you will have great support if you require better security for the future, more funding for all supervisory authorities. I wasn't just thinking about protecting the consumer right now, because it always comes down to the consumer. I know it's not part of this, but if the supervisory authorities are to actually play their part effectively - we are dealing with the energy crisis - I don't think we can avoid it in the future. So for us, if you need any more strength besides your position as Minister of Industry, I dare say for the whole club that you will have it, because we've been consistently promoting this since the beginning of this term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-16-ps2021-048-03-006-004.u23	Thank you. Who else is joining the general debate? No one applies to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. Is there any interest in the final words from the rapporteur or the minister? No. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Who is reporting for a detailed debate? Nobody. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. No proposals have been put forward to vote, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal and ending the discussion of item 4. Let's continue with point number
