ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u1	4. Government bill on the services of video sharing platforms and on the amendment of certain related laws (Act on video sharing platforms services) /German print 30/ - First reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa. Please, Minister, it's yours, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of the Government, let me briefly mention the bill on the services of video sharing platforms, which brings about a completely new regulation and which amends some other related laws. Exclusive, and I would like to emphasise, the aim of the bill is to implement the legislation of the revised Directive on audiovisual media services into the rule of law of our country. That Directive, which has been in force since 2007, has been revised in 2018 in the light of the changing situation on the audiovisual media services market, namely television broadcasting and so-called on-demand services. It is important to stress that the implementation of the directive into the Czech rule of law is proposed to a minimalist extent, i.e., it is proposed only to take over the mandatory requirements of the new European regulation without laying down stricter rules. The bill can be divided into two parts. The first part - the Act itself on the services of video sharing platforms - contains a new regulation, namely the obligations of service providers of these platforms. I just want to define the platforms or state what the platforms are. These are online services whose main purpose or essential function is to make programmes or video recordings created and uploaded to the platform by its users themselves. A typical example is YouTube. The new law does not regulate anything, it is essential what can be uploaded to the platform. It therefore does not introduce censorship, but regulates some of the obligations of platform operators by introducing functionality for users to help protect the public from violent or hateful speeches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u3	Minister, I'm gonna ask you, and I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u4	Thank you. By introducing functions for users to help protect the public from violent or hateful acts, from incitement to commit a terrorist offence, to protect minors from content that could interfere with their development. Therefore, for example, the obligation of the platform operator to enable users to identify or report faulty content of video recordings is introduced. The obligations relating to the use of commercial communications within these services are also being adjusted. It is primarily about informing platform users about the presence of advertising and sponsorship and video recordings. The second part of the bill is the amendments to the applicable law on radio and television broadcasting and the Act on audiovisual media services on request. In some respects, the European Directive has already changed the long-term regulation of television broadcasting and so-called on-demand services: Voyo, Netflix, HBO Max. Changes in these laws should be made, for example, in the labelling of programmes from the point of view of their binding content for minors, the making available of programmes for persons with hearing or visual impairment or in the modification of commercial communications. An important change in the current situation also concerns rules on the resolution of EU Member States' jurisdictional disputes. It has a link to the possibility of suspending the broadcasting of certain programmes which pose a threat to national security. The amendment must also be implemented, on the basis of the requirement of the Directive, in strengthening the independence and activities of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council as a so-called independent regulatory body in the field of audiovisual media services and video sharing platforms. European regulation requires complete independence from this body, independence from the government, as well as ensuring its continued existence without the possibility of recalling all its members. It is therefore proposed to increase the board, meaning the so-called large media council as a whole, in order to ensure the continuity of its administrative activities. [[18.30 hours]] The bill has already been submitted to the House once, it has not been discussed, and here I want to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this is one of those laws where time really pushes us. The deadline for the transposition of this directive expired on 19 September 2020, and the Czech Republic is therefore now subject to infringement proceedings, the so-called infringement. Should the matter be referred to the European Court of Justice, it will be irrefutable that the Czech Republic will be granted significant penalties and periodic penalty payments. So, of course, I do not want to limit the debate on this matter in any way and so on and so on, but I consider it important to draw attention to this. I therefore propose that the Chamber of Deputies release this bill to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u5	Thank you, Minister. I, too, ladies and gentlemen, wish you a nice evening, and we have taken turns in the management of the meeting. I thank the Minister for his speech and ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of this law, and that is Mr Jan Lacina. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u6	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to wish you good evening. I will complete the Minister very briefly. First, I will add that the proposed regulation has an impact on the wording of the following acts - Act No. 231/2001 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting and on the amendment of other laws, then Act No. 132/2010 Coll., on audiovisual, media services on request, and on the amendment of certain laws, and then Act No. 40/1995 Coll., on the regulation of advertising, and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 468/1991, on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, as amended. [[Sb.]] The overall impact on the state budget, in this case in particular on the budget of the Radio and Television Council, will depend on the intensity of supervision that will be needed. The Radio and Television Council estimated these impacts associated with the change in regulation to 8 541 man-hours per year, which amounts to CZK 4.44 million per year in financial terms. However, according to the requirements of the Ministry of Finance, staffing of the new agenda must be ensured in the start-up phase without entitlement to any increase in the fixed number of posts, the associated increase in the volume of appropriations for salaries and other expenses. The personnel requirements for the performance of the Radio and Television Council's agenda will therefore be assessed only on the basis of the real impact on administrative operations and any requirements for the adjustment of the personnel area and the increase in expenditure of RRTV will be submitted when preparing draft State Budget parameters for a specific financial year. So I would like to recommend you for approval and for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u7	Thank you for the introductory words of the rapporteur. At this point, I am opening up a general debate. Mr Jakub Michálek, to whom I hereby give the floor, came forward as the first with priority rights and with a written application. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we are aware that we need to discuss this and the following press for time reasons, because we have already received letters from the European Union, as well as from the Minister for Legislation and the Prime Minister, letters have gone to the fact that we really need to ensure the implementation of the European directives, and this is our duty that comes from the European Union. So I'm sure we're interested in fulfilling this obligation. At the same time, it must be said that the issue of copyright has not historically been addressed here exactly as we should pay attention to it, and I believe that it will change now. And especially in connection with this press, the issue of the rights of people with disabilities, who have problems with hearing and the like, which my colleague Klára Kocmanová will talk about, and at the same time, and I am already a little bit forward to the next press - I do not want to appear here several times, so I just say that there are certain landmines in copyright and related issues that we should pay attention to, and that the European Union will sometimes step aside, and such ideas as that we will force websites to automatically filter something and that everyone will have to set up or acquire some special artificial intelligence that will be distributed in some deep way, so what is legal, what is illegal, where the exception that arises from copyright law in relation to parody and the like, are unfortunately things where technology has not yet grown up, so it is not possible to do it automatically. So there are areas that I see very critically already on the European Union side, and also because it is not a coalition press, because it has been coming from the previous government, so I think that we will still have to have a very much discussion to find a true form that will be in line with the government's programming declaration. I would like to thank the Minister who took the lead on this, and I believe that the time has already ended when the OSA ruled the Ministry of Culture, and that we will really look for solutions that will benefit both users and authors and the entire creative sector, that we will find a truly fair solution that will offset this within the limits of what European law allows us to do, and that we will find a way that, at the same time, the implementation will not affect our entrepreneurs, where, of course, innovation in the digital area can be the source of a large part of our economic product. So we should not force our operators to do things that are unfeasible, unrealistic, and look for a way that will be acceptable through implementation in the following process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u9	Thank you very much. Next for the general debate is Mrs Kocmanová Klára. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for the summary of this proposal and, as Jakub Michálek has already announced, I should have a few words on this press, particularly in relation to the amendment that we will be submitting in the future. According to the Czech Union of deaf people, there are up to half a million hearing impaired in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, they are forgotten in the proposal as it is presented, even though it is something that is required by the European directive itself, which is the basis of this amendment, but the problem is simple. When you turn on the TV, there are very few channels that would broadcast with subtitles or with an interpreter in sign language, even though Czech television is an example in this regard. And that's something we can change together. The proposal in its present form completely eliminates existing legal quotas for programmes with hidden and open headlines and on programmes accessible to people with visual impairment. It replaces the general obligations of broadcasters to prepare action plans where the degree of security and accessibility is left to their sole discretion. Given the vague obligations of operators, I fear that their role will only be formal and will rather deepen frustration from the long-term unsatisfactory situation in this area. All of this will lead to a deterioration in the legal enforcement of the accessibility of audiovisual services to the deaf. I note that even today it is not clear from the existing legislation how precisely the broadcasters are to comply with those quotas. Without a specific definition, the practice is not clear and there are interpretation disputes where, for example, the operator of a licence does not label a single programme for five years, because the wording in the law makes it possible to understand the obligation to make available as a mere repetition of the same programmes, often during night hours, when most people sleep and do not watch television. In other words, we need people with auditory and visual disabilities to access more programs, including new ones. It is necessary to give all providers the same conditions and to increase the accessibility of the content on a solid basis. Slovakia, for example, went along a similar path without any problems. The European Parliament Directive allows countries to implement this. Therefore, allow me to conclude at this point that we should put this bill into committees and then into second reading, where these shortcomings will be corrected. I would like you to support this amendment in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u11	Thank you, Madam Member. Mr Aleš Juchelka has made a point of fact. Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly support this amendment of the Czech Union of deaf people here, of course. We have been over this in the last term, as Minister Baxa rightly said here. I am only interested in one technical thing, which is why I signed up for a factual remark, because the Council for Radio and Television, which will actually administer the whole of this law here, I suspect that it has applied for CZK 10 million extra in the budget so that it can somehow put this implementation of the European Union directive into practice for new jobs, so whether it is envisaged in any way. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u13	Thank you for keeping time and returning to the general debate. The next enrollment is Mr. Babka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to summarize here this important bill on the services of video sharing platforms, which can help to move more securely in online space as such. This bill on the services of video-sharing platforms was prepared on the basis of the government's legislative work plan in 2020 and the regulation is intended to provide better protection against acts of violence, hatred, incitement to terrorism, undesirable content of commercial communications, and also to protect children from content that could disrupt their development. It will regulate almost neglected Internet platforms for sharing YouTube user videos so far. The aim of this amendment is also to some extent to unite regulation on videos, whether these videos are monitored through any audiovisual service. We want to achieve this by extending the legal regulation that already exists for both classical and internet television to the online video sharing platforms. One of the changes will therefore be that the advertising regulation law will explicitly apply to the video sharing platforms. There will therefore be a ban, where appropriate, on the strict regulation of placement of advertisements relating, first, to incitement to violence or to hatred against individuals or groups of persons, as well as cigarettes and other tobacco products or electronic cigarettes and refilling them, alcoholic beverages or medicinal products and medical procedures available only under medical prescription. In particular, Act No. 231/2001 Sb., i.e. Act on the Operation of Broadcasting, and Act No. 132/2010 Coll., Act on Services on Request. The second point of the Act is focused on services aimed at providing programmes to the public for information, entertainment or education. This is therefore an adjustment in the field of services which, in relation to the recipient of information in today's company, complement or compete in some cases. From the perspective of European law, the area of regulation of audiovisual media services is the subject of Directive 2018/188 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the purpose of which was to create a single European market for audiovisual media services and to ensure its correct functioning together with the promotion of cultural diversity, the establishment of an adequate level of consumer protection and the provision of media pluralism. I look forward to discussing this law in the electoral committee and thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another one for the general debate is Mr Lubomír Brož, and I am giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u16	Thank you for the floor. The honourable Members, honourable Members, members of the Government, have already been said a lot, so I will be fairly brief. I'm just gonna pick out the things that I think are still completely...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u17	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador. I ask especially the left part of the hall if it could be quiet, because the level of noise that is reaching here is very difficult for the speaker. Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u18	Thank you. The exclusive objective of this bill is therefore the implementation of the legislation of Directive 2018/188 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and its implementation was set by 19 September 2020. It follows, therefore, that the immediate adoption of this proposal is very important, if not necessary. On the basis of the requirements of the directive, it is necessary to adjust in the Czech legal order the obligations of providers of video sharing platforms in relation to the protection of the public against violent or hate speech and to protect against incitement to commit terrorist crime and criminal offences under European law, as well as the protection of minors from content that could interfere with their development. The draft law also contains substantive amendments to the law on the operation of radio and television broadcasting, the Act on audiovisual media services on request and the Act on Advertising Regulation, which are based on the new European regulation of this type of service implemented by the Directive. What matters is what these changes involve. I'd stick out a few of the most important things here. For one thing, it is the labelling of programmes in television broadcasting and audiovisual media services on request from the point of view of their defective content for minors, the next is the making available of programmes in television broadcasting and audiovisual media services on request for persons with hearing or visual impairment, the modification of commercial communications in broadcasting or on request services or rules for so-called jurisdictional disputes of the Member States of the European Union. In fact, the amendment is also carried out on the basis of the requirements of the directive in the definition, constitution and scope of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council - it has already been said here - as a regulatory body for audiovisual media services and newly in a defined scope, as well as video sharing platforms. The facts of certain administrative offences related to the newly amended obligations of broadcasters are also added. Finally, I would like to summarize that the audiovisual media environment has passed, and I dare say that it is still going through dramatic developments, thanks to the ever-increasing convergence between television broadcasting and services distributed via the Internet. Consumers themselves often access content on demand through televisions and portable devices, often watching videos on the Internet, including those created by private individuals. Although traditional broadcasting in the European Union remains strong in terms of both ratings and advertising income and content investment, new business models for the dissemination and consumption of audiovisual services are also emerging. Broadcasters expand their activities online and new players offer audiovisual content via the Internet. They're getting stronger and stronger, and yet they're competing for the same audience as those traditional services, that's what needs to be realized. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Video sharing platforms, such as YouTube, provide access to both professionally created programs and content...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u19	Mr. Ambassador, I have to step back into this for you. Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down. The noise level is outnumbered. We've got ten minutes till the end of the meeting. I'm gonna ask you to make it so that we can hear each other. [[Member of the Brož: Thank you.]] Just hold on a second. Now you can, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u20	Thank you. So also to the content, of course created by the user himself, which can very often have the character inappropriate for minors. The same problem today is the spread of hateful or violent content, which is increasingly accessible through these platforms. The exposure of consumers to harmful content or content encouraging hatred and violence can be supported and is often supported by new technical functions such as live streaming of audiovisual content on the Internet. As a result of technological developments, the regulation contained in previous Union instruments has thus ceased to comply with its original intention and market needs and has brought ever more and more disproportion in regulatory practice. In view of these facts and the fact that the transposition period for the directive has already expired on 19 September 2020, it is necessary to adopt the proposal, as I have already said, without further delay. In my opinion, the proposal is non-controversial in terms of its content and can be agreed with without further agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u21	Thank you very much. Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Foldyna. So I believe that you, too, will allow Mr. Foldyn to come forward so that he can hear himself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to say to this proposal from the perspective of our SPD club that, as a result of the implementation of this proposal, as we have heard here, it will be necessary to increase the Council's budget, which we have heard and we have been confirmed in principle that it will be CZK 10 million. I think that the current situation is not a situation where we can afford to give out, even if it is the so-called 10 million crowns. So that's one of the things. Once again, this is one of the European Union's directive regulations, which no one consulted with elected representatives before sending it here. I've heard my colleagues find a number of flaws. I believe that by accepting this procedure we would legitimize the restriction of certain sovereignty of the Czech Republic, and therefore I would like to propose to the SPD to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u23	Thank you very much. I therefore note, also for the rapporteur, that there was a motion to reject Mr Foldyna. However, we will continue the general debate and so far the last one entered into the general debate is Mr Berkovec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening. Let me also stop at this implementation of the European audiovisual media services directive on request in the context of the Radio and Television Council. As has already been said, this directive regulates the provision and regulation of television broadcasting, on-demand online services and cross-border broadcasting and similar services throughout the European Union. It is actually a revision of the European regulatory framework, which has responded in particular to the rapid development of new media, especially in the area of the Internet - YouTube, Facebook and so on. There has been a change of habits in the access to broadcasting and the content created by the user has gained meaning. In view of this development, the legal framework has just been updated. The regulation of new services, such as on-demand services, has been strengthened, mainly available online. The aim is to compare conditions with traditional television broadcasting, where, on the contrary, there is a slight liberalisation in the field of commercial communications. The biggest change is undoubtedly the inclusion of online video sharing platforms, which will also be subject for the first time to rules ensuring better protection of viewers and especially minors. But that's what our esteemed colleagues have been talking about. The new directive on cross-border cooperation, in particular the cooperation of national regulatory authorities, has been strengthened to a significant extent there. For the first time, the European Group of Regulators for Audiovisual Media, in the abbreviation ERGA, and at the same time the Member States' obligations in view of the independence of regulators, have been enshrined directly in the directive. We're quite late because of the covid. The revised directive was published on 28 November 2018 with a transposition period of 21 months and the transposition into national law was due to be completed by 19 September 2020. The promoter was the Ministry of Culture and I am glad that the current Ministry of Culture has rushed forward with the presentation in this House press 30. A number of consultations involving operators and public authorities took place in the first quarter of 2019 and the Ministry subsequently presented the final proposal at the same time as sending it to a commentary procedure which took place in the first half of 2020. And then just followed by a longer time delay caused by the spring wave of pandemic covid-19, the commentary procedure was then settled and the proposal passed to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, but no new media legislation was passed and the transposition was not carried out in the Czech Republic within the time limit. The Radio and Television Council is aware of the importance of the process of transposition of this new European regulation, but it has not been able to influence the speed of the legislative process in this way. The esteemed colleague Aleš Juchelka here also spoke of the fact that this means an increase in funds, which is budget chapter 372. That's about $10 million. We pointed that out, as did former Vice-President of the Radio and Television Council, Mrs Jana Kasalová. The Council focused in particular on activities related to the implementation of the new directive within the framework of European structures. During the past year, the European Commission then adopted guidelines to help Member States implement the revised directive. These guidelines, the so-called guidelines, are dedicated to ensuring the promotion of European works in the media content of on-demand services and to protecting users of video sharing platforms from hate speech and harmful content. The adoption of the Memorandum on cross-border cooperation within the ERGA, which addresses specific application issues of new rules within the framework of the cross-border cooperation of European regulators, was the most essential act from the perspective of the regulator. So, as part of all these activities, the Radio and Television Council continues to draw attention to the effects that the new transposition rules will have on its activities and the financial claims and requirements mentioned above. Thank you for your precious attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u25	Thank you for your attention. We've got two minutes to go, so let's try to make it. Is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one else checks in. I'm asking for final words - the minister is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u26	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly. Thank you to all the performers, I also thank my fellow Members from the ANO parliamentary club for supporting us to continue discussing this matter. The audiovisual directive of this type is really important. It aims to protect, among other things, our children. We are prepared to discuss both the issue of deaf people and what my colleague Berkovec said about the Radio and Television Council. So we are prepared to have a debate on this, and I am just stressing my proposal, that is, to put this law before second reading and reject the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-003-004.u27	Thank you, Minister, and we can therefore proceed to the vote. In the general debate, Mr Foldyna's motion to reject it at first reading was made, so that we will vote... Yes, I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign-in. The number of Members has stabilized. [[19.00 hours]] I shall therefore vote on the motion for rejection at first reading by Mr Foldyna. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 23, 152 Members were enrolled, for 17, against 130. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. Seven o'clock, I don't think we're gonna make a decision. [[The Members propose to complete the vote.]] We can, okay? Let's move on. The President has decided to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Election Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the election committee being the guarantee committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 24, 154 Members were enrolled, for 152 was against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the electoral committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment? There is no one, or we will not vote on other committees. I note that we have discussed this press at first reading, and I am ending this meeting today. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00.
