ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, as amended, and some other laws /German press 175/ - Second reading Under the authority of the government, the law was to be given by the Minister of Justice Blažek, but I see that Minister Baxa will continue, so I will ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, this is a government bill amending Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, as amended, and some other laws. This bill is presented repeatedly. The amendments to the Law on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters during the second parliamentary term were the content of two separate prints whose discussion was not terminated. The main objective of the draft law is to adapt, to the extent necessary, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders and on the European Union Agency for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u3	Thank you and I now ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Ondřej Kolář, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. I merely recall that we ordered the proposal at first reading to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee, and that resolution was delivered as House press 175/1. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. The Constitutional Legal Committee discussed the proposal at its 11th meeting on 22 June this year and, without any amendment, recommended it to the House for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u5	I thank you, and I hereby open a general debate to which the following Members have joined - Mrs Taťána Malá as the first and the only one so far. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good evening, fellow Members, I would only briefly like to justify the amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. I took the liberty of submitting an amendment containing the proposal, such that from the funds that are obtained from the imposed property criminal sanctions under Law No. 59/2017 Coll., Probation and Mediation Service to satisfy property claims damaged instead of existing 2% gained 5% to help victims of crime. These funds should be used to gradually set up advice centres for victims of crimes in all regional cities, and I believe that this is a matter of the utmost urgency, and I think that we need to take advantage of all the possibilities of helping victims of crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u7	I thank the Member and ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. Minister, is there an interest in the final word, possibly the rapporteur? Not interested, thank you. We can therefore launch a detailed debate. I merely recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. And the first to report is Mr Pavel Staněk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon or early evening. I want to enter into a detailed debate with the amendments, with three amendments to this law. All three amendments are set out in House document 1299. It is a law that has been introduced here several times by both the Minister of Justice and now on behalf of Minister Baxa. [[17.30 hours]] I am signing up, as I said, for three amendments. Since I do not want to delay more in the detailed debate and I have not used the general debate, I will try to introduce and justify them at least a little bit. The first amendment responds to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-724/19 HP of 16. 12th of last year. The Court of First Instance stated that if, under the national law of a Member State of the European Union, it has the power to order the issue of operational and localisation data in connection with telecommunications operations exclusively by a judge, then the prosecutor is not entitled to issue a European investigative order requiring the execution of such an act in another Member State. [[according to the Czech Criminal Code it is § 88a]] Following this request, the regulation of the issuing of the European investigative order is amended so that, in relation to an act authorised by a judge in the Czech Republic - such as a house search or a wiretap - the European investigative act issued by a prosecutor must be confirmed by a judge. That's the first suggestion. In fact, the second amendment contains two substantive changes. It is a correction of the situation after the adoption of Act No. 255/2019 Sb. in the field of decision-making on a knowledgeable and interpretable person who has changed the authority responsible for decision-making on a knowledgeable and interpreted criminal procedure by the authority that has taken the expert or interpreter into consideration, regardless of which authority is conducting the proceedings. Unfortunately, as it turns out, in practice, this regulation raises a number of problems, since, in her view, even in the case of an interview by an expert who has been recruited by a police authority, in the proceedings before the court, he is to decide on a knowledgeable police authority and not the President of the Senate. The amendment thus returns the adjustment to be made before this amendment is adopted, when the President of the Chamber will always decide on these matters in the proceedings before the court. Similarly, an adjustment in relation to the expert consultant and interpreter is added so that the court may always decide in the proceedings before the court. The second substantive amendment contained in my amendment. In order to reduce the risk of secondary victimisation, it is proposed to adjust the questioning of victims of criminal offences associated with sexual exploitation or interference with human dignity in the sexual field or domestic violence in such a way that such victims are asked only through law enforcement authorities, as these victims are vulnerable and often prone to secondary victimisation, given the nature of those offences. As has already been mentioned, victims must be protected and supported in every way. In short, I will also present my third amendment, the last proposed by the currently increasing number of cases of a new type of advertising fraud. In particular, following the imposition of international sanctions on Russia, persons originating mostly from former Soviet countries abuse bank accounts established by them in the Czech Republic. The victims are most often citizens of the Czech Republic who advertise goods on the advertising portal. As part of this fraud, a certain person answers an ad on the portal, such as Bazoš.cz, Sbazar, Aukro and so on, when the seller contacts the seller via the social network - most often through WhatsApp - and tells him that he is interested in the goods offered. However, it cannot take them physically, so it will use the services of a shipping company, a courier company, when using further communication with the seller to draw login data into internet banking using a fraudulent website. Subsequently, funds from the bank account of the seller, in which case the advertiser, are transferred to that person to the established bank account that is controlled by that person. The funds are then collected from this account in cash from the ATM. Then, of course, they are removed from the range of the advertiser and the seller. If the Police of the Czech Republic succeeds in providing fraudulently acquired funds on purpose-based bank accounts in criminal proceedings, it is proven that they have been acquired by a criminal offence and are known to be injured, then it is possible to return the funds to the injured person in criminal proceedings, even if the perpetrator is unknown and cannot be prosecuted. In order for the money to be returned to the injured, the decision to return it also needs to be delivered to the person whose funds have been secured in the account, in this case the person hired to set up these so-called sample bank accounts, which, however, has no relation to the funds. It is therefore proposed by this amendment to enable the document to be served on documents delivered to this address, which the person hired has indicated in the bank as a delivery service. Only in this way can it be guaranteed that the victims will be able to return their funds, and these will not remain available to those who have fraudulently lured them away from them. The right of a person whose funds have been secured to claim his/her possible ownership of funds in civil proceedings and, if necessary, to sue the Czech Republic for damages remains preserved. However, in the present case, it is more than clear that the person has no relationship with the funds and its rights are not affected. So I have briefly presented my amendments, which I have discussed, and they are actually prepared with the Gestator - the Ministry of Justice. At this point, I would like to ask for the support of these three amendments which are being conducted, as I have already said, under House document 1299. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u9	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mrs. Taťána Malá. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to sign up for House document 1296. I justified the amendment in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-005-015.u11	Thank you. There is no one else entered into the detailed debate, so that concludes the detailed debate. I wonder if there's any interest in final words? [[- No. Rapporteur: It is not.]] It's not. That concludes the second reading of this proposal and I thank everyone for their cooperation. We can go to the next point, and that's
