ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening this 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who's asking for a replacement card. So I've checked you all out now. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 97 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 27 April this year. Let us now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Michal Zuna as the verifier. All I'm asking is to keep it down, we're going to vote at this moment. If there was another proposal, of course, and I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? He doesn't. We will now proceed to the vote on verifiers - Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Michal Zuna. At this point, I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Anyone against it? In vote number 1 registered 125, for was 125, against no one. Result: accepted. I note, therefore, that the verifiers of the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies have been designated by Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Michal Zuna. At the same time, allow me to apologise for not taking part in today's proceedings or partly the following Members: President Pekarová Adamová, on a foreign trip, Mr Ivan Adamec, on a work-related basis, Mrs Andrea Babišová - a foreign trip, Mr Jan Bauer for work-related reasons, Mr Bělor, from 12.30 to 14.30 for work-related reasons, Mr Bureš from 16 hours on a work-related basis, Mr Dubský from 13 hours on a work-related basis, Mr Exner on a foreign trip, Mrs Fialová from 10.30 to 15.30 for health reasons, Mr Flek from 10 to 13 hours. - And I hereby cancel Mr Ivan Adamec's apology, apparently there has been a mistake, so Mr Ivan Adamec is here. - Furthermore, Mr Stanislav Fridrich, for reasons of work, Mrs Pavla Golasowská from 10.00 to 11.00, without giving any reason, Mr Ondřej Matěj Havel from 18.00 for reasons of work, Mr Janulík from 14.00 to 17.00 also for reasons of work, Mr Václav Král for family reasons, Mr Michal Kučera for reasons of work, Mrs Pastuchová for reasons of foreign travel, Mr Karel Rais for reasons of health, Mr Jiří slavík from 13.00 for reasons of work, Mr Strýček Jiří for reasons of health, Mr Karel Tureček for reasons of health, Mr Milada Voborská for reasons of work, Mr Ivo Vondrák for reasons of work, Mr Milan Wenzl for reasons of health and Mrs Renáta Zajíčková for reasons of employment. And at the same time, I'm canceling Mrs. Jana Pastuchová's apology. Let me also apologize to the members of the Government: Minister Martin Baxa from 12.30 to 14.30 and then from 19.00 to 22.30 for reasons of employment, Minister Bek for reasons of foreign travel, Minister Gazdík for reasons of employment, Minister Langšádlová from 15.30 to 17.00 - without giving reasons, Minister Lipavský from 14.30 for reasons of employment, Minister Nekula for reasons of employment, Minister Rakušan from 11.15 to 13 and from 18 to 20 hours also for working reasons and Minister Šalomoun from 16.00 for reasons of employment. [[There's noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I will now ask for a silence. Everyone, please. I ask you again politely, I beg you to keep your voice down. I would like to share one important piece of information. Once again, please take the right side. Thank you. And I would like to officially welcome the new head of the Chamber of Deputies Office, who is here for the first time today, Mr Mgr Martin Plíšek, and at the same time wish him every success in his work. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. [[10.10 hours]] And now we will proceed to the agenda of the 20th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation, and I merely recall that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. Therefore, no amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. Allow me now, with priority right, to report to the President of the Schillerová House. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words before the vote is taken on the agenda for this meeting. These meetings, or both of the extraordinary meetings convened for this week, are actually very distinctive in their own way. It's about the content to be dealt with. On the one hand, there is a meeting convened by the coalition of the government, which is on the agenda mostly on topics that do not just split this Chamber of Deputies, but very often the public. Topics whose priority is determined by the personal and political interests of politicians rather than by the needs of citizens. And then there's a second emergency meeting called by the YES movement, where you can't find politics, but proposals for concrete solutions that will help people in this extremely difficult time. Nothing shows the current situation better than this contradiction. Even after eight months after the election, the ruling parties did not understand that they are now responsible for all residents of the Czech Republic and that they can no longer do politics just for someone. I understand that, for ruling politicians, the topics we propose are obviously boring and uninteresting. Maybe they'd even give them a useless sticker. Unfortunately, a number of ministers, but also government MPs, have been affected by the fact that they are not looking to the right or the left, and woe to anyone who tries to lead them astray. And given these so-called blindfolds, it might be good for everyone here to know what's really going on around us. People are scared. They're worried about the future. And it's not one research, it's several. More and more people are turning to us with their problems. Most importantly, they feel that they are thrown overboard and that their worries and problems are ignored by this government. And I have to say, I understand them. Perhaps not purposefully, but indeed some of your actions and statements can really do so. From social media statements to various unfortunate statements of coalition politicians expressing contempt for others and superiority, but above all, unbelievable arrogance towards those who simply did not have as much happiness in life as others. No one says this situation is simple. We don't blame anyone or the government. But what I definitely blame is that you stopped talking to people. That you don't explain your steps. That you don't care about other people's problems. You can't be surprised that one can easily get the impression that you know about them, but you refuse to deal with them. That you're just running away from them. When it comes to covid, you're pretending that covid isn't anymore. Minister Válek has a bit of a head in the sand, and he pretends there's no such thing as covid. The tactics of no sudden movement and hope that nothing will happen again is nice, but I want to point out that this policy cannot be done forever and cannot work forever. And, of course, I'm glad that it's working out so far and that covid, thanks to nature and climate, hasn't caused any serious problems yet. In the event of a price crisis, however, it is already clear that it will have to take place that the government has to do something. This crisis will not resolve itself, and inaction will only deepen it. Just look at inflation. When our government ended, inflation in December 2021 was a little over 5%. But more importantly, we were 14th place in Europe. You were talking about Babišův's dear back then. I wonder what you would name the situation today. What are you going to say now? You've been saying you've been better, you've been patronizing yourself. Okay, I admit, you won in inflation. We have reached almost 13 percent, and within Europe we have worked our way to the third worst place. And just in case, if you'd like to make excuses that you didn't, that it was Babiš or Putin, it wasn't. This is your job. Because, for example, Malta had the second highest debt growth last year, and yet it has the lowest inflation in the European Union. And they're not impressions, they're facts. After all, before the war, you let inflation grow more than 11 percent by your inactivity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u3	I would like to ask the President to be able to present his speech, please, calm down in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u4	There's been a lot of talk about rising energy prices. No one seems to question what is happening in this sector anymore and what impact it has on households and businesses. And yet the most complex is just ahead of us. While our government has really helped households and companies by reducing VAT, and now we want to help in the same way, what have you done? Many weeks ago, at a press conference, you were talking about 13 points, but they're like Columbův' wife. Fuel prices have been sticking to their peaks for several weeks now, and the only thing this government has been able to do is reduce the excise tax by a crown of fifty. Anyway, it wasn't until June that any discount on petrol and diesel should apply, yet I say: we supported it. Food prices. I suppose we're all shopping, and we all see that growth. And the government's reaction again? Tweet Minister Nekula on a high margin for curled salami. Nothing more, no solution, no help. In other words, the problem would be, even if prices were only rising for one of these categories. But we're in a situation where everything gets more expensive, especially jumping. Even tens of percent in a few months. Most of this is caused elsewhere than by the government's activities. But the mistake is that you don't deal with it, and you often probably unwittingly deepen the crisis. And that's what I'm blaming you for right now from this place, as are a lot of people who are responding not only to me but also to my colleagues, and I'm assuming to you, too. The problem is, you're like the misinformation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u5	Madam President, I'm going to interrupt you and ask everyone present in the O.R. if there's anything they need to take care of, if they're so kind as to take care of it in front of the O.R., not here. I'm asking you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u6	You often come up with a tempting solution to show that it's either for the eye or for no one. At other times, you talk about help that, as it turns out later, is no help. Many times you may have repeated false information about 74 billion. If I were to use your vocabulary, I would talk about lies or misinformation. But I prefer to call it softer, just a typical example of populism and hypocrisy. To brag on the one hand about the steps of our government, which almost all government parties with an honest exception in the form of KDU-ČSL did not support - yes, I am talking about 28 billion of that amount, i.e. valorization of pensions plus 300 crowns above the legal framework. Yet now the Prime Minister and some other members of the government are bragging about it, so I will do it again for the members, for these members of the government: you who like to present as government aid to the people, you did not only decide this, but did not support KDU-ČSL in the last term. [[10.20 hours]] You're also boasting an extraordinary $21 billion valorization. I don't want to be nasty anymore, but that's something you can't brag about. It is simply a sign that inflation has gone off the grid, and this is actually a legal policy. An insurance policy that says inflation is so high that pensions automatically valorize. Let's move on. 15 billion off the taxpayer, part of the tax package approved, enforced, by our government. Yes, I recognise that it was part of the compromises that we agreed with each other, and some government parties really supported this package. That's right. That's what we're at at 64 billion of these 74 you've declared. Another 4 billion are the reduction of excise duty on fuel. It's already under your rule. These are measures that we have also supported, but which, of course, are desperately weak and will help no one at all. In addition, it is due to start to pay from June and I guarantee you that the citizen will not even notice this impact during these constant changes. So help in its basically zero. Another 4 billion is the abolition of road taxes. The aid also minimal, touches about 800,000 entrepreneurs who did not even call for this measure. Even so, we have supported this proposal of yours, which goes to your government, here. Then we have an increase in life and existential minimum of 10 percent. By 10 per cent when the current inflation rate is close to 13 per cent. And unfortunately, it's not all over yet. From the beginning, we said that in order for the increase to be meaningful, it should be at least 20 percent. First, your coalition refused, and now there are cautious voices that the existential and living minimum will increase again. After three weeks, after a month? And that's all that's been contained in the 74 billions so far. Last week, the government announced practically large-scale assistance for families. As we learned from the newspaper, the contribution of CZK 5,000 per child to families with income of up to one million should basically be such a masterpiece of this government. Perhaps this could also be commended, because this is the first almost area aid we have been calling for all along if it did not contain a few major "buts." At first, we learned that aid would be calculated from net income. Three days later, we learned that the Minister was wrong. I admit he apologized. It was after the intervention of the Minister of Finance - I draw only from public sources - that it is actually from gross income. Another wave of confusion was brought into this by the pirát, who said and wrote on social networks that it was not at all helping families with children, but it was actually compensation for expensive energy. So I'm thinking that maybe they're both right, and that the Prime Minister, or the government, wanted to wipe out both problems with one turn. I would be willing to forgive all this - if. I wonder -- and people write it to me, I'll use these letters as part of the interpellation -- I'm interested in setting parameters. To tell you the truth, I don't understand the age limit of 18 years. What's the difference between a family with a 17-year-old high school student and a family with a 19-year-old student of the same school? Who will administer this aid? Minister Jurečka said he didn't want it, or he wouldn't like it to be the office of work. Yes, I understand that, because they are absolutely overloaded, and officials are not sufficiently valued for their work, there is a threat of a strike alert. But then the question is, who will do it? On Sunday, a colleague of mine said "Výborný" that it was a technique he could handle. It's not. We've had two years of covid, and I know how difficult it was to manage the compensation bonus quickly for a million businessmen. That is why we have taken a negative tax so that the financial authorities that have coverage throughout the Republic can process it, and people have not waited a few months for that money. So I would recommend that you read the jurisdictional laws of the individual authorities to read there that the welfare benefits cannot be administered by the financial authorities, and maybe they really wondered how long it will take, what will be part of the requests, how they will document these revenues, whether they will add up within the family, what will be shown there, whether decisions will be made, how long will it take. This means that payment should be made according to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in August. But when will these x applications actually be processed? This means that the government has sent a signal, but we don't have any legislation, none of us have seen it yet, which I understand is what they're working on. And a number of these technical questions, but very fundamental and parametric, are clearly not discussed at all. It means, there's always an announcement, and then weeks are waiting to see how it's gonna be. But not just being critical. I see this as the first step in the right direction, and I hope that this will be quick, because help comes very slowly. That's why we've been calling for the general assistance. Her magic is that she's fast. When we gave an extraordinary contribution to the pensioners of CZK 5,000 - we were also very critical of the opposition, today's government coalition - so we also asked ourselves a question, and I also heard complaints about why we give it to everyone, why we give it to rich pensioners. Well, I don't know a lot of rich pensioners, but we've been discussing whether or not to just give it to someone. It would mean making it a social benefit, they would have to ask for a one-time allowance, document their income, they could lose another benefit. That's why we chose a fast but flat path back then. Our shadow government, you know, has prepared 12 concrete measures. These are things that would help. But I'm saying not all of them have to be realized, we never said that. They're suggestions, ideas. Finally, you want to implement some of them, as you have already implemented an increase in the existential minimum. Now it sounds like you want to increase it. Yes, it's the right move, do it because it's entering eight types of social benefits, and that's helping the most necessary ones you talk about so often. And I'm sure we support it. So there's an increase in parental allowance, and that's what you're talking about. You need to increase, now I've noticed, mobility allowance, immobility. That means people with reduced mobility to disabled people. I've also noticed that you're considering it. That means a whole bunch of things. Of course, our proposal, which will be the subject of an emergency meeting convened at the request of the YES movement, is a reduction in VAT. Although I admit that the prices have already fallen so much that, of course, the impact will not have the effect it would have had if it had been done in time, as 24 European countries have done - because there is also Great Britain, which is no longer part of the European Union. Look at Slovakia 14 days ago and so on. It is already clear - when yesterday I also noticed some media firefight between one server and the Ministry of Finance - but it is clear that due to the increase in the selection, on the income side, the government will have almost 100 billion extra. And we keep saying, "Leave some of that money to people, leave it to them, they need it now." Just as they needed them for covido, and you were calling us to help, and of course we were helping, we felt it was an obligation. So leave them to them now in this crisis, which is no less easy than the covid was. What I'm talking about right now is the fundamental difference between the strongest opposition movement, the YES movement, and the government coalition. We say let's help people right now, let's solve these problems, and we offer a helping hand. We also wanted to discuss the law on the agenda of this meeting, public health insurance. Until today, we have not seen the proposal for an automatic valorisation that Minister Válek is talking about. We also wanted to talk about voluntary EET. There's a seminar tomorrow on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. It is called by my colleague Patrik Nacher, but it is also at the request of a number of entrepreneurs and associations, so that we simply EET - which notabene is two years voluntary and about 60 percent of entrepreneurs are still voluntarily registered. It's a digital leak, and it's definitely a source of information, and we're gonna give it up like this? And I'm leaving aside the battle with the grey economy and the yield of 12 to 13 billion a year, which means we don't have to take 14 billion out of health insurance now. We'll get to that. [[10.30 hours]] I'm sure we'll talk about health insurance. Once again, when the bill is on the agenda, when it gets on the agenda, we will remind again that insurance companies have ended up in a deficit of almost 15 billion in 2021. And the reserves you're pointing at, it's a good thing they made them. We did not want health care to be limited to anyone in this country because there were large costs with covid. That's why we've been raising payment for state insured people three times in a row. That's why there's reserves. So now we're gonna pick 'em dead, what do you call 'em? Just because the Treasury Secretary made a cut in the state budget? He's still gonna novelize it. And we will remind again, I and many of my colleagues, who are larger health professionals than I am, I will certainly look at this only from the point of view of the budget that we have here, together we have over 300,000 new state insured people that we have to take care of. We certainly don't question that. They too have their own health problems and will have to be reliant on our health system. And we're asking, what kind of valorization? We didn't see a suggestion. We ask and ask: what will be the case with the payments for state insured persons? You want to compare the year 2022 to 2021, that means taking the amount we raised, but what's it gonna be like in 2023? What's it gonna be like in 2024? And we will expect answers to these questions that we will logically have. Of course, the points we disagree on are much more important for today's emergency meeting. I'm sure we can get to them one by one. But the biggest debate, which I am now announcing, will be about the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act for all of my brief reasons so far, and, of course, the abolition of the EET. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Before the next one comes with priority rights, which will be President Okamura, let me read some more apologies. First of all, the abolition of Mrs Babišová's apology, from 3 to 6 May 2022 on account of a foreign business trip, of the apology of the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan from 11.15 to 13 hours today, then another apology, which is from 10.45 to 12 hours, namely Vice-President Kovářová. Another apology is for Mr Richter, today from 9 to 12 o'clock for health reasons, and because of the cancellation of a foreign trip, there is an apology for Mr Benešík, on 3 to 6 May 2022. And even a little detail, Mr. Bureš Jan's apology, is not from 16 o'clock today, but until 16 o'clock for work reasons. And with Minister Jan Lipavský it is not from 14:30, but until 14:30. Thank you. And now I would like to ask President Okamura, who will speak with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the agenda for this extraordinary meeting proposed by the government. I'm really not enough to stare. Because the government coalition here wants to discuss the fact that it will take CZK 14 billion from health insurance companies, making access to healthcare worse. As a priority here, he wants to discuss the correspondence option, because the government's confidence is falling, so he's afraid they're gonna fail next time. And where's the proposal to deal with the expensive? This means that we see exactly black and white, that the government's priority is not to deal with the price increases, I would expect bills here, but I don't expect them anymore, because the government's coalition of ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates here has a majority in the House for six months and no major proposal to deal with the price increases has been made by the government of Petr Fiala here. I would like to comment on that. So when we look at the overall agenda of this meeting, which the government has convened, over and over again, it needs to be stressed that the government here is a priority - and here it is clear completely, it is clear as a slap that the government's priority is not a solution to the price increase. So they want to spend time here by promoting correspondence choices because they are afraid that they will not succeed in the elections next time, so they want to change the electoral system in the Czech Republic, they want to take money from health insurance companies to make access to healthcare worse. Well, that's really awful. It is appalling what the priorities of this government coalition are. And that's what they want to spend time here, precious time in the House, making proposals like this. Now there's even rumor in the galleys that maybe the government parties want to propose that the negotiations be extended overnight and so on, they may want to propose negotiations after 19 p.m., after 21 p.m. So they want to spend more and more time here because they want to burden the budget even further and actually squeeze public money even more. The House costs a lot of money. By not even wanting to end negotiations at 7:00 p.m. and they want to drag this place out even overnight, I'm wondering if the government's proposal is gonna come down that they're gonna want to take action after 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. This means that they still want to extend the negotiations over and over again, basically, about wanting to make the availability of healthcare worse. Well, that's unbelievable. This is unbelievable. So they're gonna be suggesting that there's more to be done here, that it's gonna take longer to obstruct the government coalition. We say, "Let's close the meeting at 7:00, let's act again tomorrow, we don't have to drag this place out at all." We're going to express ourselves here, and that's our position. I wonder if the proposal will fall. That means, it'll be clear who's dragging this place out and who's burdening the House with these inconvenient proposals from my point of view. The problems here are really fundamental. However, we do not see those on the agenda of a government-approved emergency meeting at all. The price of natural gas for Czech citizens is at least three times higher than it could actually be. And let's face it, Petr Fiala's ODS government is fully responsible for overpriced energy. We all know that Russia has been demanding payments from last week for the supply of natural gas in rubles. For this reason, it interrupted the supply of natural gas to Poland and Bulgaria. There are currently discussions at European Union level on the withdrawal of all Member States from supplies of Russian natural gas due to the conflict in Ukraine. From the point of view of the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens, this is, of course, an irresponsible gamble with our future, because the government does not have an alternative. The government has no alternative to replacing this gas, and the Czech Republic is 100% dependent on gas from Russia, whether someone likes it or not. On the contrary, the SPD was the party that called for the government to work in the last parliamentary term - then the government of Andrej Babiš, it did nothing in this regard too - to work on the energy security of the Czech Republic. And it was the parties of the current government coalition that laughed at this SPD proposal in the last parliamentary term. And now we're here where we are. No one wants to be dependent on the energy sources from Russia and from God knows where. But that's why we needed to work on the energy security of the Czech Republic. The government has done nothing in this regard, and the Fialův government is obviously not doing anything about it, it is waking up here, and it is waking up completely late. Now he is discussing the fact that they are supposed to end with a snapping of the gas supply from Russia, but according to energy experts, the supply of Russian natural gas cannot be adequately replaced in the foreseeable future without a dramatic increase in prices, resulting in further enormous increases in the living costs of our citizens and the operating costs of our industry and a significant reduction in the standard of living and quality of life of our citizens. On the contrary, I would expect that there will be such a proposal at an emergency meeting, as the SPD has repeatedly suggested that we address the energy security of the Czech Republic and also to address the price increase of these commodities, whether it be an increase in energy, especially in order to help citizens with this, so that the government can help citizens. [[10.40 hours]] The government has full responsibility and, of course, concerns food, of course, fuel and so on. The current government of the SPOLU coalition, which is ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates, and then even the Pirates and STAN government coalition would instead of these dangerous ideas, that means that the Czech Republic should be cut off from gas without the government negotiating any alternative, instead of these dangerous ideas should focus on ensuring sufficient gas and at the same time by its regulatory instruments also reducing its price for our households and companies. Well, that's where Petr Fiala's government is totally failing. And I think that's what all citizens see in their wallets, including the voters of a government five-blind. The fundamental problem in this regard is that, on the one hand, our gas reserves are low, and also that the Czech Republic is buying heavily overpriced gas on the stock exchange, in addition through dealers, instead of having secured direct bilateral long-term contracts with direct producers and suppliers. This way, for example, goes Slovakia, Hungary or Austria. I don't know, why doesn't the Czech Government take an example in Austria? These are democratic countries, and I do not know what the government of Petr Fiala is still testing for Czech citizens who pay three times higher gas and, according to some experts, up to five times higher gas prices, only because of the inability of the government of Petr Fiala. Yes, this government is literally free of charge and withdraws unnecessary money from the wallets of Czech citizens with its incompetence. Again, I say that the way we are talking about, for example Austria, Hungary or Slovakia. [[let's go.]] The costs of Czech citizens for the supply of natural gas, as I have already said, are at least three times higher and, according to some calculations, up to five times higher than they could actually be. This too is the fault and responsibility of the Fialův Government, which does not solve the causes of high gas and energy prices and their effects. There are some oral proclamations, but the deed has escaped, and unfortunately, because of the government of Petr Fiala, compared to the countries I speak of, there are high prices as a pause. And I say again, it's the full responsibility of Petr Fiala's government, no one else's. You've had a majority here in the House for six months. Because of you, people pay overpriced energy prices. This government has no confidence in citizens, and it should therefore resign as it brings our citizens and companies into energy poverty and existential problems. And that's not all, there's more of these topics that I thought I'd expect the government to deal with, but I don't expect anything anymore, because I already know you don't give a damn about ordinary citizens. You are an elite government, you are a government for a narrow group of elites, not ordinary citizens. Because, and I'd like to mention that when I look at the government's agenda for today's special meeting, the government wants to... Not only are you not discussing energy prices, fuel and food prices, and such empty words that Prime Minister Fiala here sometimes says somewhere, and it's really grim that he's really afraid to go into a discussion with the presidents of both opposition parties, he's just afraid to go into a discussion, so we can't even talk to him on the air, I haven't seen that the Prime Minister, who's afraid to go into a discussion with the opposition presidents on TV, that's incredible. So instead of taking some of the big-scale measures that the surrounding states are taking and doing, most of the countries that are in the European Union, the Prime Minister's speech is going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Well, most European Union countries are doing it, so obviously the bad guy will be Prime Minister Petr Fiala, because saying it's not a solution, and not proposing any alternative, that's really incredible. I have asked the citizens repeatedly in their speeches to write to me whether they felt on their wallets that they had done something for them regarding the expensive government of Petr Fiala. Nobody feels anything at all. That's the reality, that's the truth. And that's right, no one feels anything at all. You have done nothing of the utmost importance to the citizens. So far, you've done it all for yourself. Several extra ministers, apparatus for them, tens of millions of extra crowns to the Office of the Government, that's your way of doing it. Alone, but not for the citizens. And when I look at the agenda for this meeting that the government wants to make access to health care worse for citizens, well, that's really the highlight. Because on the agenda of this extraordinary meeting is a government proposal, it is a proposal by the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, to reduce public health insurance payments for so-called state insured persons, that is, for children, students, seniors, disabled people, from 1 July this year. Despite the fact that the number of these state insured persons is currently increased by hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ukraine, whose health care is also financed from this public insurance, i.e. from our taxpayers' money. This government proposed measure, which means taking the health system of 14 billion, would cause a serious decline in health insurance revenues in a short time, and consequently will result in further deterioration of the availability and quality of long-term delayed health performance due to restrictions in relation to covid, and will also lead to a deterioration in the availability of health care for Czech citizens. I'm saying, frankly, that this is totally unacceptable to the movement, and we're going to fight it with all our strength here in the House. Again, it is totally unacceptable for the SPD that the government, by proposing that it take 14 billion insurance companies, will make access to health care worse for Czech citizens. And you need to be honest that if the government pushes it through - and you're going to get it anyway, probably because you have a majority here in the House - so any waiting for a doctor, any delay in health care, everything will be your fault. It's been, it's been six months since you've been here, you've ruled for quite a long time, because let's add to the fact that you've been here a year and a half ago in the House saying that you're fully prepared to rule both by personnel and programming, it turns out that it was a lie, both, because programically - you don't have any law prepared here. [[when]] Everything lasts. You said you were gonna deal with the expensive, you're not gonna do anything. Even compared to the surrounding countries, it needs to be emphasized that somebody here is still not telling the nonsense that they're covering measures, or whatever you're doing here, some of your floscule. It's just that the countries around here are dealing with it, you're not dealing with it. Let us also look at VAT on food. VAT on food in the Czech Republic is the highest in all countries of Central Europe when you look at all the surrounding countries around the Czech Republic. The only Czech Republic has 15 percent on food. Everyone's got less. Poland has even given temporarily zero VAT on the basic foods, which is why food is cheaper there, and our citizens go shopping there. I don't quite understand - Prime Minister Fiala was now on a foreign trip to Poland, he spoke to the Prime Minister of Poland, and of course he didn't ask him how Polák do it. Instead of asking Prime Minister Fiala to ask the Polish Prime Minister how the Polák do it when it is unclear to him, the Prime Minister, to discuss why it is cheaper in Poland, these basic needs, so he took a picture and so on, but for citizens, the result is zero. For citizens, the result is zero. That the citizens are troubled by the expensive. So, instead of really giving this trip to these important things, of course, Prime Minister Fiala wasn't interested in the hundreds of thousands of dollars' salary of upheaval to the citizens. The result in this respect is zero. So, of course, that deserves a huge criticism. Of course, there is a need to approach the area measures, that is to reduce VAT, as other countries and neighbouring countries do, or to ceiling prices. I mean, what's wrong with government helping citizens? And if Petr Fiala's government can't help the citizens, it can't solve the expensive, so I say again, it's on demise. Because why should citizens pay for such a government? What good is the government that pays from its taxes that can't help them in a crisis that can only help itself in a crisis? To myself, I mean to government politicians and their exponents. That doesn't make any sense, it's a government. So I'll remind you of the agenda for this meeting... it really deserves extraordinary criticism that there is no solution to the price increase. [[10.50 hours]] Of course, then there must be a substitute for the opposition here, because we, in cooperation with the YES movement, are two opposition parties, so we are holding an extraordinary meeting here, where we want to discuss the auction or the solution to the auction. You don't have any suggestions, so we're presenting them to you repeatedly. Nothing. And I say again, while the Polák have already adopted and Czech citizens have been going to gas and buy food in Poland since February, so only if I count how much your government has taken out of Czech citizens' pockets in vain compared to Poland, it is February, March, April and now May. For four months you've been pulling thousands and tens of thousands of crowns out of the pockets of Czech citizens and families by your incompetence and your arrogance and your complete dilettanteism, when you're unable to solve and solve the price increase. This is, of course, unacceptable to the SPD movement and it is necessary to speak loudly about this. I must say that there is, of course, much more to be dealt with here, because the problems that Petr Fiala's government is buying are already beginning in all areas. For example, Petr Fiala's incompetent antisocial government is also deepening the housing crisis. It didn't say much in the media, which is why I would stop by because the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS deprived young families of affordable housing. The Ministry of Regional Development, led by Ivan Bartoš of Pirates, stopped early after three months of effectiveness the program called Own Housing for Helping Young Families to Purchase Housing. The Ministry has justified this by Ivan Bartoš, who is responsible for this, President of the Pirates and Vice Prime Minister of the Government of Petr Fiala, so everyone in the government is to blame for this by running out of money in the State Investment Support Fund, from which these housing loans are financed. It is another example of the dilettanteism and sociality of the current government. The government of Petr Fiala from ODS released only 700 million crowns into this program. And it didn't have to be just 700 million crowns at all. That's the truth. SPD Member Marie Pošarová, as part of the state budget discussion, which is two months ago, because we in the SPD have seen this problem -- sorry, we have already seen the problem as an opposition party, while the government sees absolutely nothing, so our Member Marie Pošarová proposed an increase in the volume of these funds to CZK one billion two months ago in the state budget discussion. [[♪ She's coughing ♪]] However, in their vote, the government Members refused to do so. And here's where we need to stop for a while. This means, once again, it is confirmed that Petr Fiala's five-police government prefers foreign donations before our young families reach affordable housing or have more affordable housing. That's what needs to be said. So there are two options. Like this, the result is the same, that's what I said. So either Ivan Bartoš, and I am more inclined to do this, he doesn't know which beats at the Ministry of Regional Development, which is why at the time when we talked about it in plenary when we approved the state budget and proposed an increase to a billion crowns, so Ivan Bartoš didn't know what we were talking about, and he doesn't know which beats, which is why he didn't really know, or the government coalition is directly and purposefully opposed to increasing the availability of housing for our young Czech citizens. Either one or the other. There's no other way. Well, the third one is that they prefer financial donations abroad to help our young families with children. Well, there's only three options. And all three of them are wrong from my point of view. And now Ivan Bartoš figured out, the vice prime minister, that he's missing money, and after three months of a program that's been announced for a lot longer, he's gonna stop now that there's no money. Well, that's crazy. It's just, I'd like to say, a bunch of dilettants. But I don't think that's possible anymore. I can't believe this anymore. I have to smile, smile, even if it's not funny, 'cause it's like a comedy show. The worst is that your hostages are citizens of the Czech Republic and, in this particular case, young people who wanted to get housing under more favourable conditions. In this way, the government has deprived thousands of our young families of the possibility of owning their own homes. The long-term lack of flats and their increasing price availability is also due to the fact that the Fialův government coalition pushed for a one-year delay in the effectiveness of the new construction law, which was enforced last year by the SPD's votes and which would, among other things, speed up the construction process and increase the supply of flats on the market. Yes, I admit that family comes first for the SPD. Apparently not for your coalition. And now there's another miserable situation that not only did you block the building bill to speed up the construction process, but you're not even able to push through your novel, which is another incredible failure of the government, because you have 108 Members, you have a majority here, and you're not even able to push through the amendment you said you were just promoting here. So you have actually incredibly cemented and aggravated the situation on the housing market and it really goes with you citizens of the Czech Republic only for worse, for worse your activities, because the activity of politics... A politician is here to make a deal. But in your arrogance, in your arrogance of power, you refuse to deal with anyone here. You think you're just gonna roll with your strength, and I'm stressing again that most of the Czech Republic didn't vote for you because a million votes in the elections fell for parties that were under 5%, and they're all sides that are opposed to your political agenda. This means that most citizens of the Czech Republic did not vote for you. I didn't vote. You do not represent most citizens of the Czech Republic. And you are far from representing most of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Now, I don't want anyone to take my word for it, but if you put a million people's votes into it, because every citizen's voice has the same weight, I hope so here... Well, you don't admit it, I actually know that. You think your votes are worth more than that, which is why you didn't respect the relative representation in the House's bodies and threw more than half a million votes of SPD voters into the channel arrogantly. But we're not gonna let that happen, obviously, because we're gonna defend our constituents and fight for them. I wanted to make a strong point here that you do not represent most of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Therefore, you should have a little humility and with the opposition these things, these crazy suggestions of yours consult and edit them. And then you're very surprised that you can't promote your suggestions here because of your arrogance. Because you're not politicians. You are dilettants from this point of view, because a politician must have the ability to sit at the table and make deals with others. That's what the citizen expects. We at the SPD are prepared for this, but you refuse to do so in your arrogance. But you're responsible for everything. You have full responsibility for how expensive it is here and people's availability of housing has deteriorated. I would also like to point out here, it was an article where representatives of the server Reality.idnes.cz or representatives of the server Bezrealitky.cz have spoken. , it was normally an article on the mainstream that, due to the war in Ukraine and the influx of refugees, the availability of rental housing for our citizens deteriorated fundamentally. Demand has increased by up to 60 percent, and this obviously leads to an increase in rent. The problem is mainly in Prague. So, once again, it's proof of the total incompetence of Petr Fiala's government, which only thinks of itself. Well, I'm not surprised, I told you last time. People call you the "Ukrainian Government" and Petr the Fial "Ukrainian Prime Minister." I don't blame these people at all. It's written to me by a huge number of people. All you have to do is look at my social profiles. It doesn't say Okamura, it's written by citizens. I have 300,000 people watching me on Facebook, so I think it's quite a large sample. And I don't blame them at all. I must give the impression of the citizens of the Czech Republic, a number of citizens, a large number of citizens of the Czech Republic, because you do nothing for Czech citizens. That means now even rental housing has gotten worse. That means Ivan Bartoš of the Pirates will stop the program of Own Housing here, it still has that name, so Own Housing ended after three months because Ivan Bartoš of the Pirates couldn't count it. He just couldn't do the math. Wrong. If he had it figured out, you will either vote in favour of our amendment proposed by our Mrs Marie Pošarová, or you will come forward with that proposal yourself, Minister. But you didn't do either. You just canceled the program prematurely. It's crazy. It's crazy. So, of course, the area of housing has gotten very worse here because of this government. [[11.00 hours]] Plus, it's not just that because of your government's inactivity... You guys don't deal with price increases. Based on what we read from the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences, it was an article on the Journals, also on the mainstream, so more than 30 percent of households have already gotten into major existential problems due to price increases. The article's a month old. A month away, and once again, there is no suggestion from the government. Nothing, zero, no suggestions! That's totally incredible what you're doing. And there was a 40 percent increase in new executions compared to the pre-election situation. And Petr Fiala's government doesn't care at all. Nobody cares about this place at all. We are here repeatedly putting forward our proposals to help people in executions. For example, we propose to cancel VAT on execution. Well, the world, I wonder, she says it doesn't allow the European Union to cancel VAT on execution. That's great! So, because of the European Union, we have 21 percent more expensive executions. Come on, a) the government didn't even think of bringing this proposal, it brought the SPD. And when we brought it in, we got a negative opinion about it, because it is said that the European Union does not allow it. But it doesn't really matter whether the European Union allows it or not. Let's just do it! Because the needs of Czech citizens must come first. But, of course, that is what we cannot expect from the government of Petr Fiala, which is servile to Brussels, because Prime Minister Petr Fiala is jumping exactly as they whistle in Brussels or Washington. And they don't care about the Czech citizen. Of course, there is also a draft SPD law on nationalisation of executors. He's lying here, and, of course, the government coalition doesn't want to discuss him, so that's still in order and that's where all the trouble goes. But your inaction about the price increase, as I have already said, is throwing new citizens and others into executions. But you don't give a damn about it. You don't give a damn about it. As long as you're all alone. Well, it's not just housing, it's not just execution, it's not just an upheaval that Petr Fiala's governments are hurting, but it's not just energy prices, it's not just food prices where you don't do anything, and people are really desperate. But you guys damaged disabled fellow citizens right last week. Because last week, the government coalition of Petr Fiala rejected the SPD's proposal to help disabled citizens. You refused to discuss last week's proposal for an SPD to increase the mobility allowance for disabled citizens. So it is quite obvious that the Fialův government is ignoring and not helping the serious problems of disabled people. The SPD is proposing to increase the mobility allowance from the current CZK 550 to CZK 825 per month. This contribution has not been increased for nearly five years. That's what I wanted to point out. It's not a suggestion that we're populist about something. The post hasn't increased in five years! Since then, there's been a huge increase in traffic, there's also inflation, and especially that shit is against those disabled citizens who show Petr Fiala's government that those disabled people can't help themselves well enough. That's the worst thing about what you're doing! That's the antisocial policy. They can't help themselves because they're disabled. So the government has a duty to help these people, but that does not apply to Petr Fiala's government. So even though the contribution has not increased for nearly five years and is even lower than before 2012, when its legal form changed, the government of Petr Fiala refused to discuss this SPD proposal on Thursday. Because we had it designed and the government Members know very well about it, we had it designed in the so-called opposition window. Because it was supposed to be, we've already talked about it at the last opposition window, that we're going to propose it. But you arrogantly canceled that Thursday's opposition window, when the chairman of the ODS club, Marek Benda, here on the microphone, told us that we were running out of time for the opposition, there would be no opposition window. So it's arrogance to disabled citizens? That we used up our time because we wanted to push for help from disabled fellow citizens. Well, that's crazy. That's crazy what Marek Benda from ODS said here for the approval of the entire government five-caliber. And we're just gonna fight for disabled citizens in the SPD. Because for many disabled citizens, due to the government of Petr Fiala, transport, which is a must for them, is becoming a virtually unavailable service at current high fuel and fare prices. And we will simply defend disabled citizens. Not you. You prefer, as I said before, to give donations abroad, as we have noticed on the basis of your vote. With the vote, you confirmed it, the government coalition. You'd rather give money, financial gifts, abroad than support affordable housing for our young families. And there were more of those votes. By the way, I will recall the vote when we discussed the state budget here two months ago, when our MP Jan Hrnčíř of the SPD suggested redirecting the billions that are being paid to the European Union, a part of the billions that are being redirected to the solution of the auction. It is precisely so that VAT on commodities such as energy, basic food and so on can be reduced. And you turned it down! And I ask repeatedly the question that Prime Minister Petr Fiala doesn't answer because he can't even: What good is membership of the European Union? What is the point of people, I am referring to billions of contributions to the European Union if they do not, and 30 percent of citizens are already getting into unsolvable financial problems with regard to price increases. Well, that's just the way it is, and the government should be very clear about the answer. Because if people don't have food and energy, that means basic life needs, I don't understand why you increased billions to the European Union. You've increased them by a few billion, that's what you need to say. You raised them against last year's condition. That's what this is about. So I would hate to hear you here again - I would like to say - bullshit about what the European Union is like and how we need it. You increased it, and we wanted to reduce the increase. That's what this is about. That's the thing. Because I've already noticed that some government MPs here are always involved in microphones, activists, because they don't know each other, and they don't know what they're voting about, so they're always putting everything together, and they're always turning around, somewhere where it's not really like that. So the fact that you spit in the face of disabled citizens, I would expect this to be an emergency meeting. Helping disabled citizens, our citizens, who have problems with expensive, housing, energy, but there is no such thing at an emergency meeting. I think it's totally awful. I think it's really crazy, and it's indicative of the government's priorities. But you're the one who spends time on other things that I don't think are a priority for citizens of the Czech Republic at all, and you spend and spend public money on it. For example, the government of Petr Fiala promotes the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This has not been made public enough that you are promoting a change of constitution that will allow your government to send Czech soldiers to foreign territories and allow foreign troops to stay on Czech territory without the consent of the Chamber of Deputies. Without Parliament's consent. This, of course, rejects the SPD's refusal to do so without Parliament's consent. The government coalition of SPOLU, i.e. the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and the STAN movement, is preparing to amend Article 43 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. He wants to strengthen his government powers and broadcast Czech soldiers next time without the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on foreign territory and allow foreign troops to stay in the Czech Republic. [[11.10 hours]] The SPD's movement sees this as another unacceptable attempt by the current government to concentrate power that should not belong to it. And once again, I stress that, especially with regard to the residence of foreign soldiers, American soldiers, as discussed by Minister Černochová in the US, this should be a question of referendum. He writes to us a huge number of people, and I fully agree with the concerns of the citizens of the Czech Republic after the unfortunate experiences of 1968, but also from the Protectorate. So it's complete nonsense the lies I've heard about who's against the presence of American soldiers in our territory are pro-Russian. On the contrary, many citizens say that after the experience of 1968, they don't want any foreign soldiers here. It's a government five-caliber lie again. Lie to the lie you're doing. Those citizens, on the other hand, are worried, after these experiences they do not want foreign soldiers in the territory of the Czech Republic. So it's not exactly what you're saying. So I would like you to stop lying about the reasons why many citizens and the SPD disagree with the presence of foreign troops in the Czech Republic. After all, how can our MP Jaroslav Bašta of the SPD agree to this? How can it be pro-Russian when he was in prison during the last normalization regime? He's been imprisoned by the regime. It's exactly the opposite. It's exactly the opposite. So it is also necessary to set the record straight here, that the reasons why citizens do not want foreign troops in the Czech Republic are not whether they are pro-Russian or anti-Russian. After the historical experience of Czechoslovakia with the presence of foreign soldiers, either from the east or from the west, they just don't want that here. That's why. So I'd like this discussion to go this way. And it is really from this point of view a question of referendum. The problem, of course, is that when we proposed the referendum law here and it was already being discussed here, the SPD proposal, the referendum law, as you know, it's about two months ago, the point was interrupted, the five-calice said it, Mr.Josef Cogan said it here, I've already memorized the name after his extempore here, it's the chairman of the STAN movement club, I didn't know it originally, and now I've already infiltrated it, so the name needs to be repeated here, because I already know how it is, who it is, so he said that the government five-calice is against the referendum law. This must be said against the bill of referendum. At the same time, however, the ANO movement has also said, with the mouth of Mrs Válková, that it is also against the referendum law. It's a legitimate political attitude, I understand, I'm just stating. But that implies that the SPD movement is the only one that promotes democracy, and that means the referendum law. And the referendum law applies in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union. So, basically, the SPD movement is the only one here to promote even the democracy that applies in the countries of the European Union, and you are defending it. So this is typically a question for a referendum. But most importantly, it is completely unacceptable for the SPD that you want to reduce the control power of the opposition in the Chamber of Deputies, even though most citizens of the Czech Republic did not vote for you. It's an incredible abuse, incredible totalitarian manners, incredible arrogance that shows government five-calibers. Again, even war in the European region must not be a pretext for the government to strengthen its powers at the expense of Parliament. These seemingly formal changes to Article 43 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS has already sent into the commentary procedure, lead to the reduction of parliamentary control of the government. Yet again, most citizens of the Czech Republic did not vote for you. In this way, the power of the executive and limitation of the legislative power, which is made up of elected representatives of citizens of the Czech Republic, would be strengthened. For the SPD movement, it is unacceptable for our soldiers to be deployed abroad without the control of elected representatives of the people or on our territory, without it being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. Just when you don't want a referendum about it anymore, and there are twenty of us, so we don't have the strength to enforce the referendum law in this constellation, it's a constitutional law, so, of course, 120 Members in the House and two thirds in the Senate, which the SPD doesn't have, so at least this should be discussed in the House. But even you, even the House, want to detract so that even citizens can't comment on it, but even the opposition can't comment on it in the House. So, of course, it's absolutely totalitarian, it's totally unacceptable. And I have noticed that a number of five-calice voters, at least those who write it that way, voted five-calice, that the opinion among the five-calice voters about the presence of American soldiers in the Czech Republic is divided, that the view is not uniform. So even from this point of view, it would be fair to at least let it be discussed in the House, the consent to make it clear that everyone here should make their arguments public in front of the citizens, and not hide it for the often classified actions of the government, so that citizens know nothing. Like when you secretly agreed to the money for the refugees because you're in an emergency, so you're in a classified regime, we learned that you're agreeing billions there. Then it just came out with a few weeks' delay. And no one even knows where to go. Those are exactly the risks we've been pointing out. It's taxpayers' money. And I don't understand why in a secret regime you vote on money for Ukrainian refugees. What's the secret? On the contrary, this needs to be discussed, because many citizens do not agree with your policy, your way of accepting Ukrainian refugees, and that you are completely forgetting about solving the problems of Czech citizens. That's why the Ukrainian government gives you the nickname, because many citizens already feel that you are not a government for Czech citizens. So the fact that you here are going to sneak around or behind Parliament's back again, you want to change the constitution and renege on Parliament, that's also important to say here. And I would expect that it should be on the agenda of this meeting - a constitutional change, that you are pushing it here in line with practice and democracy, first of all, to discuss widely, these constitutional proposals for amending the Constitution. Since I mentioned your situation around refugees, I hope that this will also be a point for some of the other extraordinary meetings convened by the opposition, 70 percent of the population believe that the arrival of refugees from Ukraine will lead to a weakening of the social security of Czech citizens. We share their fears. And it's a STEM survey. It's a STEM survey. The war in Ukraine has been going on for two months, or more than two months, and the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS has so far adopted around 350 000 refugees from Ukraine, with government politicians promoting unlimited reception. After all, I've just heard it from the president of the ODS MP's Marek Benda. Unlimited. And so have some government officials. Government officials assume that Ukrajinec will remain here permanently even after the end of the conflict. That's what Prime Minister Petr Fiala said. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL said that the Ukrajinec are ready to pay a total of 317 894 benefits each for 5 000. And yesterday we read it, as those Ukrainian Rom people are asking in Brno, where they are camping in front of the railway station, when they will receive the $5,000. All they cared about was the article, it was the article in the mainstream where they get the money. That was what they were interested in. Money. At the same time, representatives of the government coalition have Hungarian passports. At the same time, representatives of the government coalition said that only 24,000 Ukrajinec had begun to work. That's very little. The cost of accommodation, health care, the integration of Ukrajinec into schools is estimated by the government at this point at CZK 54 billion. But there's this STEM survey, it's not Okamura or SPD that's invented here. STEM stated that, based on its survey, 70 percent of the population believe that the arrival of refugees will lead to a weakening of the social security of Czech citizens. Yes, I've been pointing this out for two months now that the government is about to come up with a plan, a strategy, but there is no strategy after more than two months. We have repeatedly asked the Vice Prime Minister and the Interior Minister and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement and Prime Minister Fiala. There is no strategy. This is totally unbelievable! It's just been done halfway through, how it's gonna come. The worst thing is, again, that it's public money and that citizens are becoming hostages to this incompetent government, because the plan and strategy here should have been on the table long ago, and it should have been in the House to discuss it here at an extraordinary point. But at an emergency meeting called by the government, we don't see any such point. Nothing again, because you don't have a strategy. [[11.20 hours]] And I warn and sound the alarm that it will cause - and it is already causing - great social tension, the government's approach. You're splitting up the company. You're digging ditches. And I would really like no one here to lie in the future, that maybe the SPD is digging up moats and inciting some kind of hate. You inspire hatred with your dilettant approach, when citizens of the Czech Republic see and have concerns about worsening social security. So you and your government, Petr Fiala, are the only culprit. And if you want to seduce any of the problems that Czech citizens have, on the SPD or on the opposition, there is an YES movement, then put it down, because it means you don't have the solution. Because making excuses -- and I've heard that some of them are making excuses here, that the SPD is causing some sort of animosity here... We? I mean, there's a STEM survey that 70 percent of citizens feel it. Only you are deaf and blind. We represent voters here who are right to feel socially threatened. And it's all Petr Fiala's government. For everything. You've got most of it here. You have full responsibility. This needs to be stressed repeatedly. It's nobody else's fault. And it's not Russia's fault, it's not Ukraine's. And I have to say, after six months of your majority here, it's not even Babiš's fault. Yes, for some of the things that he agreed with Green Deal and so on, that is, of course, the fault of the previous government, but you could have already faced it, at least start pushing the European Union to cancel this nonsense, because that is what's causing our expensive energy prices. If we were to continue mining in coal-fired power plants so it wouldn't have to be dampened, it would also be a signal to energy prices. Yeah, but Petr Fiala's government is waiting for the notes from Brussels to come, and the result is these overpriced prizes, instead of having a solitaire policy. Solitary politics. Even with the completion of Dukovan and Temelin, the European Union is waiting for what will be allowed. Let's just drop them, I say. Hajme our interests, the interests of the Czech Republic and our citizens, who can no longer pay for this nonsense that comes from Brussels and which is still being nodded by the government of Petr Fiala. Yes, but Andrej Babiš did it during the previous government, but she's not here anymore, and you're already in the government, so it's your full responsibility. Another point that I would really expect the government to open up here in this context, and again I do not see it on the agenda of an emergency meeting, and you are hiding it here from the citizens, is that the European Commission is about to establish a Solidarity Fund from which it intends to finance the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine, while the European Commission has already made it clear to the Member States, according to Bloomberg, that most of the long-term costs of the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine will be borne by the Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic. Why don't you say that the European Commission has already made it clear to you? Why are you hiding this information? Important information for the Czech Republic's economy and for the state budget? Why do you bullshit those Czech citizens, why do you keep fooling them? That this isn't a good time? Because the European Union is doing something wrong again? Because you do not want criticism of the European Union? But this here should be an extraordinary point. Now there's an extraordinary meeting, so we can't propose a new point, but of course we'll propose it at a proper meeting. Because the SPD refuses, and we say this clearly and aloud, so that the Czech citizens, according to the European Union's proposal, finance the reconstruction of Ukraine, which is managed and stolen by the oligarchs. And I think that this really should be the government, Petr Fiala, you should say it at a government press conference, but we do not hear that the European Commission has made it clear to you that most of the long-term costs of the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine will be borne by the EU Member States. And it won't be just any cost, I'll get to that, it'll be hundreds of billions. Hundreds of billions of euros! So according to what the European Commission has said, respectively. According to Bloomberg, this instrument, which means the Solidarity Fund, is called the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine, should be like the Fund to support the economy affected by the pandemic, for which the European 27 borrowed hundreds of billions of euro from commercial banks in total, thereby further indebting the Member States, including the Czech Republic. This is the appalling common debt of all the EU countries, to which Andrej Babiš therefore nodded, and so we have criticized and criticized very much, servilely nodded to this dictatorship from Brussels, because, as you know, more than 40 percent of this amount of money owed to the Czech Republic went to Spain and Italy, which have higher pensions than the Czech Republic, because no one wanted to lend them anymore, because they would probably have to leave the eurozone after that, which would mean the definitive breakdown of the European Union. And Greece, but Greece is a small country. So more than 40 percent went to Italy and Spain under the guarantee of the Czech Republic. Well, that's awful! So we really don't want to do this again. And I don't understand how Petr Fiala's government can keep this important information from citizens that... By the way, based on this Economic Support Fund, this is a two-year-old thing that has been voted on or what has been agreed in the European Union, Andrej Babiš has agreed to it, we do not agree with it at all, so the Czech Republic, if I remember correctly, we are paying back by 2057. We're paying back. Although if we wanted to borrow it ourselves, it is true that we are not as economically poor as Italy or Spain or Greece, we could rent it individually without the joint guarantee. But now the European Commission comes up with another common debt, with another common liability. It is not the European Union, it is the debt union, it will bring us to the bottom! Because this Ukrainian fund in quotation marks should serve to finance investments and reforms approved by the government in Kiev. And once again, it is supposed to be - probably it is, because they said it should be similar, that it should be similar to the previous fund I was talking about, so that, in turn, it should be the common guarantee of all EU countries for Ukraine. For corrupt Ukraine! And I am saying this frankly, because the European Court of Auditors, which is an advisory body of the European Union, said that there is corruption in Ukraine and that it is lost - I will quote - billions of euros from the aid that was going there. And there is even talk that this has not helped Ukraine's recovery and prosperity at all, but only helped Ukrainian oligarchs and corruption. And to such a country should hundreds of billions of euros go to recovery from the Czech Republic as well? If we don't even have what it takes to help the citizens with the expensive, or the government doesn't want to do it? That's a horrible thing to do. And Prime Minister Petr Fiala and his colleagues should clearly tell the public and journalists at the press conference what they know about this fund, how it should be done, what are the proposals at this time, what is being discussed and for how long and how long the Czech Republic should be in debt again, because it would be fair to say all of this. And it will probably be one of the priorities for the Czech Presidency of the European Union in the second half of this year. That means, it's up to date, what I'm asking, given the conflict in Ukraine, of course, that's what's up to, but also because of that. And Petr Fiala's government here conceals the information, keeps quiet, doesn't inform about it, but it is one of the many fundamental things that the European Commission and the government of Petr Fiala, which is inclined towards Brussels, should openly say to us here, so what is it planning for us to do here. I do not understand why we should guarantee and why we should borrow for billions of euros, hundreds of billions of euros that will go to the reconstruction of Ukraine, when it is one of the most corrupt countries in the European space and even in the global context. Now, don't take my word for it, but I don't think it's exactly the 155th place on the corruption ladder, or something like that, but I don't remember it right now. [[11.30 hours]] And here it is with regard to the corruption that I note that the reforms that have been made so far have not led to the development of Ukraine and the improvement of the situation of its people, but have benefited the oligarchs, foreign corporations and general corruption. By the way, as we know, and it's an article on Novinky - in Novinky, a few months old article, basically right before the war, so in Ukraine there was a political crisis when President Zelenský found out that he wanted to avoid paying taxes because his companies have activities, are registered in tax havens and is included on the list of Pandora Papers. That means it's a news article. Anyone can track that. The article was relatively close to the beginning of the war in Ukraine. That means, that's no Mr. Clean, because whoever's about to rob his own country of taxes doesn't really give us any confidence to send in some billions of our citizens' money to be indebted for it. I really don't! And I really do not believe that there will be any change in the area of corruption in Ukraine. And that has nothing to do with the conflict right now. That's not what I'm talking about right now. We are talking about the fund that the European Commission is preparing, and the government is not talking about it. In doing so, I would expect the headlines from the government press conference, or here in the House, that someone from the government would take the initiative to discuss this, but you are not defending the interests of Czech citizens, you are defending the interests of Brussels. That's why you don't want to talk about it here and hide it from Czech citizens. So the SPD clearly rejects these proposals and considerations by the European Commission. As I said, chronic and ubiquitous corruption and a very weak level of rule of law have already been associated with prewar Ukraine, which could prevent theft. Therefore, we see no reason why the EU should take further loans under the guarantee of the Czech Republic as well and finance billions of euros in the reconstruction of the country managed and robbed by the oligarchs, and where the president himself is on the list of Pandora Papers, with the fact that he wanted to avoid paying taxes in Ukraine. In the opinion of the SPD, we need to invest primarily in our Republic, and the Russian Federation should participate primarily in the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine. That's the SPD's opinion. The government of Petr Fiala simply, when I sum it up, progresses dilettantly and does not solve major problems such as expensiveness. Nor does it solve draconically high prices of food, gas, electricity and other vital goods and services. In fact, Prime Minister Fiala has recently stated that - I quote: a price ceiling is nonsense and that his government has pumped in the first hundred days of government to help the citizens of CZK 74 billion. That, according to Petr Fiala, is a nonsense applied in many democratic countries in Europe because they want to help citizens. The worst part is that the government doesn't propose any alternative. So if he said aA," when he said "B," at least he said "b." But that's the trivial thing about saying "SPD," the opposition, which is based on the instructions of other European countries that take care of citizens, the government of Petr Fiala refuses, but at the same time does not propose any alternative. That's the problem. That's the problem! When I asked the citizens whether they felt any action by the government of Petr Fiala on their wallets, by which I mean positively, no one answered. I didn't find a single answer that anyone would feel positive about any step in Petr Fiala's government in terms of price increases. The only thing that says it's getting expensive. But to make someone feel better, nothing! So it would be good to... I think Petr Fiala, the Prime Minister, is already talking to himself and the five-calice government because they found themselves in that aquarium, that people are getting expensive, and you're saying that you're doing something, but no one can see it. This is completely unbelievable! And you say 74 billion crowns here. This may have been slipped to the Prime Minister, the number, because otherwise he would have known that we had to laugh about it, but bitterly everyone said it was a demagogy, I would have told a lie, because it was mainly a mandatory, i.e. compulsory expenses, which do not solve the difficult situation of our citizens. So if Prime Minister Petr Fiala was the truthful one he was playing, he would say no, it's not because of the government, because of inflation, pensions will increase because it's not a law at all that Petr Fiala's government has agreed to. This is a law that is already in force here from earlier, that when it crosses a certain line of inflation, pensions automatically valorize. That's not the government's fault at all. The government hasn't directed anything to anyone. Why is Prime Minister Fiala lying? He directly said that she redirected 74 billion to the people. It's a lie like a tower! She didn't direct anything. This is a legal valorization that takes place without Petr Fiala's government, so don't lie. You haven't routed anything. Nothing! You didn't direct anything major. And not 74 billion at all. So also expenses related to the discount on the taxpayer. Well, that was approved by the last House, not approved by Petr Fiala's government. I just don't understand why the Prime Minister is making this up. He's probably desperate by now, but he's just not gonna get us drunk with a roll. We know how it is! On the contrary, what is a fact is that the Fialův government has had inflation screwed up to the third highest in the European Union. This is a comparison with the situation with other EU countries. Third highest inflation in the European Union. And it's Petr Fiala's government because it's not in other countries. Because, by the way, what's screwing up inflation is just the expensive energy prices, because of course everything else depends on it, and because the government doesn't deal with energy prices, and I already said at the beginning of my speech that it would be good to negotiate at this stage, when we don't have an alternative, deliveries directly and simply think about Czech citizens as well. This makes no distinction between the conflict in Ukraine, of course, but what are people supposed to live on? So Petr Fiala's government simply lets inflation go to record value. And I'm saying again, one of the very key reasons is the draconian rising gas prices. But the government doesn't do anything. He's not doing anything. Nothing. And the citizens are desperate about it. So again, as I was saying, of course, the main responsibility falls on Petr Fiala's government. So the excuses that it's him or him, that it's foreign or the previous government, I think it's really enough that they're really excuses. They only testify to the incompetence of Petr Fiala's government. So the overpriced energy, which is just spinning the inflation spiral, solves most of Europe's countries by reducing taxes or by cutting prices, or they have directly contracted supplies without intermediaries, which Petr Fiala's government rejects without offering any other solution. Prime Minister Fiala seems naively to think that he will solve the problem himself and eventually pay for everything by our decent and working citizens. That's what the SPD is refusing. So it would be good and fair to say well, we do not want to negotiate deliveries like Austria directly, as a democratic Austria, but therefore the government is also responsible for the excessive inflation and for the fact that people pay this expensively in the Czech Republic energy, and this, of course, results from the draconianly rising prices of goods. By the way, how do you want to handle food? I would have expected the government to open it here at an emergency meeting, and again it will have to open the opposition to an emergency meeting apparently, because the Food Chamber, President of the Food Chamber, Mrs. Večeřová repeatedly points out here that in the near future, this year, already in the short term, will rise food prices by 30 percent. And the government doesn't do anything! Nothing! Zero! Here comes one disaster after another, and the government is completely inactive. That means, so here the representatives of the food industry, and the Food Chamber represent, now don't take my word for it, but I suspect 85 or 90 per cent of the market even in the Czech Republic, so they say that in the near future, they even talk about the horizon for a few months, so that there should be a 30 per cent increase in food. Of course, we're talking about the basic foods. And here we propose repeatedly, the SPD proposes our proposals on what to do with it. Of course, intensive agriculture, it is necessary to work to ensure food security and self-sufficiency in basic foods that can be produced in the Czech Republic, but simply the European Union sees it differently, so the government is servile and again does nothing at all. And here I know it again, I know it now, I'll say it now, because I see how you're completely incapable of this government, we're gonna be standing here in a month, in two, and I'm gonna be standing here fighting for the government to do something with expensive food, and again, the Prime Minister here, who isn't sitting behind me today, is gonna be sitting there again with a little bit of a bang, and he's gonna be watching, and that's all that's gonna happen here. And people will simply, as I would say, pay overpriced food because of the incompetence of Petr Fiala's government. It's been clear to everyone for a long time that this food price is going to happen here. But the government doesn't care at all. [[11.40 hours]] The situation will be even worse for citizens of the Czech Republic. And again, I'm saying your argument either to the previous government, either to Babišův's government, we were in opposition to the last parliamentary term, we were not part of that government, or to Russia, to Ukraine, really, I'm warning you that it doesn't work on those citizens of the Czech Republic anymore, because citizens want you to do something about it to solve it. That's important. So, in short, these are the ones... looking at the program of this government called an extraordinary meeting of the House, so I took the liberty before the individual points were launched, so I think it really deserved a comment on my part, because looking at the list of those points you proposed, it's an incredible failure, where there are no fundamental problems that plague the citizens of the Czech Republic. As far as I'm concerned, in summary, the conflict of interest law you're proposing here, the SPD will support this law. When it comes to canceling the pandemic emergency, you should have canceled that a long time ago, we already told you that. We were the only party here against the pandemic... We said that the pandemic law, we were the only party here, so the position is clear that these tools that you can bully citizens, we said that it should be abolished by now, so of course we will, but it comes lately everything, everything from your side. As far as EET is concerned, we have a consistent position. The SPD movement did not vote for the EET during the last parliamentary term. The SPD movement promotes voluntary entry into the EET. At the same time, taxes are due, which is why we pushed through here in the last parliamentary term - I talked about it with Secretary of Finance Schillerová at the time, I went to her, and I am glad that my request had a response to the introduction of a flat-rate tax for businessmen, which has made business business easier, so we managed to enforce it. Here I have to thank President Schillerová for hearing this, the proposals, and that back when they had the government majority, so that it succeeded, the proposal with which I originally came up with the flat-rate tax for the tradesmen, finally enforce. Because the state has its own, and businessmen and officials are not unnecessarily burdened by bureaucracy, because taxes are to be paid. But at the same time, the introduction of a flat-rate tax, that's the mechanism that works in Germany and so on. But at the same time we have been pushing for a long time, and here we have no longer agreed in the last parliamentary term, we are promoting an increase in the threshold for the possibility of using a flat-rate tax from one million to two million crowns. So it is important that we wanted the original proposal to be CZK 2 million, but also to simplify the conditions for using this option. And there are still obstacles, and I think that would really deserve simplification in the context of the current crisis. So this was my performance on the agenda. To what we consider to be priorities such as the SPD, comparing with those priorities, setting the mirror, what priorities the government coalition considers, and then it is at the discretion of the citizens, how they will lean. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. We will continue with the priority rights. Next up, Vice-President Havlíček and then Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová and then the next. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u10	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, we have an extraordinary meeting here and one who is following us would perhaps expect that, in times of crisis, in times of trouble, at a time when war is raging near us, at a time of great energy crisis, when the effects on our citizens, our companies are very essential, so that extraordinary meetings are convened on important points to address, whether those impacts or measures that will help, or the changes that we must quickly make to cope with all crises. It should usually also be associated with the creation or negotiation of such meetings in an extraordinary form of support. That's, I suppose, what citizens expect from us, what companies expect from us. And we have called for extraordinary meetings, and we are still calling. And when we look at what these meetings are supposed to be about, it is energy support, whether in terms of value added tax, or forgiveness of immoral payments for renewable resources, or solutions to the Modernization Fund, which are tens to hundreds of billions of crowns that can be used to support households or companies. I note that all these proposals are thrown off the table, that there will never be an extraordinary meeting to discuss these points, and before we get to them, the meeting is closed. At this point in time, the five-wheel drive shows us that, at this almost critical time, we will be dealing with renewables, which we would still take. But what are we going to do about them? Honest statement. Honourable statement - a relatively minor point to be addressed and dealt with in a normal meeting. But since the government didn't make it, an extraordinary meeting is being convened and this point will be included in it. The next item is the electronic record-keeping of sales, which has already been cancelled, but now its voluntaryity will be interrupted, although representatives of companies, entrepreneurs, businessmen, associations in the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Confederation of Industry and the like require it. However, we are discussing this, but is it necessary to convene an emergency meeting at this time? A conflict of interest amendment. Step into the 20th century in its conception, because whoever wants to publish Mateřídouška - I don't know if he's still going or not - can't go into politics, but whoever owns the largest Internet server in the Czech Republic can. This includes this amendment, which must now be dealt with extremely. Yes, a reduction in payments to state policy holders is, of course, an important point. And paradoxically, an extraordinary meeting is being convened to declare that this resource will be collected during the crisis, which means that health support will be reduced. It's a correspondence call. I don't know if this is such an important point that we need to address immediately at an emergency meeting. I don't know why we don't deal with fundamental things, why we don't deal with things that are bothering everyone and that we may not have to agree on, I understand. It is the view of the coalition - the opposition. But why aren't we solving energy problems? Why are we not sitting here today to deal with what is burdening households today to such an extent that almost 20 percent of them are already heading for poverty? I'm just saying, it was 10 percent a year ago. And it is not excluded, and according to quite solid independent analysis, it is assumed that within a few months it can be up to 30 percent of the households that are headed for poverty. Why aren't we discussing measures for them here? Why are they not discussing and perhaps squabbling about variants that are in Germany, Austria, Belgium, France? Why don't we figure out where we can get resources to support, whether by means of surface tools or instruments that are able to support, if not across the board, at least in households that have a certain consumption? Why aren't we discussing businessmen here in an incredible way that the energy crisis is affecting? [[11.50 hours]] Yes, as soon as the government comes up with a precaution. Thirteen measures of the Minister of Industry, Jozef Síkela, like the morningbreak that no one has ever seen. One said in life, that is the guarantee for those who are in energy problems in the sense of companies, so far no one has shown any interest in it at all. Alternatively, only the discussed point of EUR 40,000 support for entrepreneurs, which mysteriously opened up at the end of March, so the entrepreneurs paid attention. It seemed pretty reasonable to me, because it's mine. a recommendation from the European Commission. Nothing has happened since March 30th. Mysterious insinuations, secret negotiations, and the result is that the only energy support companies have received so far - I still say a word so far, because I secretly hope that from the thirteen mysterious measures at least some will come to light by God - the only one was the unfortunate guarantee that may not have been meant wrong, but the result is unfortunately trivial. Not a single request. And we have 1.5 million companies in the Czech Republic. I can't tell how many companies are in fatal problems or partial problems right now, but there's practically no subject who wouldn't fight the energy crisis. Why are we not dealing with really renewable energy sources here and changing this law to help? Why are we debating here today, or are we discussing that in this law, the only thing we are prepared to change is an honest statement? Why isn't our proposal to either be forgiven or to shift solar tunnel charges from 2009-2010? When we get to this point, I'm going to open it up here and introduce who lobbied for who, how this law was being prepared, and why we're paying every year today, and now I'm just taking the photovoltaics, because otherwise we're talking about the Renewables Act. Let's leave the biomass, leave the wind, leave the water. I'd say that's quite reasonable support. But only in the photovoltaic does it make 29 billion crowns a year. That was the discussion under the law, which in a moment or today, or tomorrow, I don't know how it's gonna go down, we're gonna be discussing. CZK 29 billion a year is paid by residents, paid by companies, paid by the state through its budget. That's 45 billion in total. But again, I'm just talking about the photovoltaic. This is the result of 2006-2010. I'd take that, too, if it helped us. But what is the production from these sources? Less than 3% under discernment. And instead of apologizing to the people to tell them that there was a mistake, that Parliament had approved it at that time, that the government would have sunned and shifted in front of us, until finally it would cost us CZK 600 billion, and to say yes, there was a mistake, so at these moments maybe within one or two years we would have postponed the payment and those who are collecting, which are solar investors - I deliberately do not say the word solar baron, because among them there are a huge number of those who were only in the right place at the right time, the error was with the government, the error was with Parliament - so that they would be agreed that the aid that is to go to 2030 would be done by 2031 or 2032, or it would have shifted, and in the meantime they would have been granted loans, or another form of compensation would have been invented, so nothing would have been done. Or, if this were not to be postponed, why do we not use the extraordinary profit of ČEZ, which in 2022 will be quite clearly, among other things, due to the global energy crisis and which will be at the level, is estimated so far, 38-42 billion, but it is not excluded that it will be much more, which will be almost double that, and this is the pessimistic scenario than it was in 2021. Why don't we just tell people: we're going to have high profits from ČEZ, and we're going to put these profits into support, and we're going to pay for the immoral payment for renewable resources, for the mistake, for the solar tunnel that we have here, and which goes from the 2006-2010 governments, that we're going to pay for it? None of this has been done. Why don't we go through renewables, like they did in Germany, where they cut it to half? Yes, they didn't put it at zero, but also because they didn't have a solar tunnel. That's where they reduced regular support. The paradox that is here is that we are not only going to lower, but we are still leaving, and even there was a debate, I remember that in autumn 2021, when most of the five-calice parties even wanted to increase support for solar investors. Do you remember the level of profitability that we proposed 6.3 percent? Do you remember how you suggested 9.5%? How did we end up playing it at least on a draw after a big debate in the Senate that we said it would be 8.4 to 10.6? That's the profitability. Solar government, that's the only way I can say it. That's what you're interested in right now. Not the way things work out for companies, not the way things work out for the residents. Why there is no discussion of energy support for demanding disciplines, or the promotion of energy-intensive disciplines. Why don't we show what companies we're dealing with, which is now paying x-fold more for gas, x-fold more for electricity? Why are we letting it all go free and dealing with everything at the last minute? Only when we're drumming on all the drums until we're pounding on all the doors, when the media pushes you to the wall, when all the unions, associations, professional associations, and so on, threaten, then you come up with a big pomp and say, so maybe we'll release something. Why aren't we dealing with the Modernization Fund? I understand that as soon as you come up with the idea of saying, "We want to save money." Finally, every government wants to save money. The question is, how do you save yourself at different times? When we look at the investigation that we had after your adored governments between 2009 and 2014, when at least three years of sunshine had already been shining, because I understand that 2008, 2009, 2010 was difficult. Even you don't respect that now that it's been a difficult time. But we respect that. So between 2009 and 2014, the balance of the sum of the state debt and the state budget, to be exact, is over CZK 600 billion. Three years of this was a normal growth period. But what I would understand is that you're going to say, we want to save money. I don't understand why we don't work much better here with the Modernization Fund, which are resources that will be extra. I admit one thing. They won't be soon. They won't be tomorrow, they won't be the day after tomorrow, they'll be dripping in quotes every year until sometime in 2027. But while we assumed that it would be CZK 150 billion wrong, and it was wrong for us not to know how to shoot emission allowances prices as a result of Green Deal, which your government stood up to, saying that it was an amazing opportunity, instead of dealing with how the impacts would be reduced, emission allowances are not at all addressed, even though before the elections you said how it was necessary to do so, and because of the high emission allowances prices, which is destroying industry, so we are in a situation where we may have the revenue maybe 400, maybe 500 billion. I don't want to shoot right now, but it's gonna be a lot. It depends, of course, on how emission allowances will evolve, their price. But in any case, it's going to be more than 150 billion. Why don't we take the surplus from this, and why aren't we working with it in terms of support? Because I understand that the core of these resources, let's say 150 billion, has always been expected to be in support of energy. This is correct and it would probably not be appropriate and right to spend it, but to take these resources, which were originally intended to support energy, modern energy, leave them there, but what will be extra, and it will additionally, so use it, I do not say at once, but gradually, to reduce the impact of energy prices. We all know it's anti-inflationary. Yes, I'll take the argument that one day it will end, and then what? This is a question of whether to reduce VAT, whether to go through renewable sources, whether to provide it with another form of contribution, such as Austria, such as France. Yeah, maybe it'll take a year, maybe two years, the support. But in that time, at least we won't be able to liquidate the farm. Why can he do this in most countries, and why can we not? Why aren't we here today discussing how we're going to deal with tens of billions so that no one can catch me at a word, a year, that goes to the Modernization Fund? [[12.00 hours]] And again, we are with the Renewable Resources Act, which will be dealt with here today, because we have proposed another law so that the resources that will flow there can be used in time for this very support. That's the first point that's going to be waiting for us here. Why aren't we dealing with coal here? Why aren't we dealing with the fact that the coal use is most likely to be prolonged? I'll take that as an important point. Again, we need not meet on it, but at least we should show that we are trying to tackle the energy crisis not only immediately - all the support, not the support that I have mentioned here - but also in the medium term. I deliberately don't say the long-term horizon. On that, I believe we agree. That is the question of the nucleus, the question of renewables. I don't think there's really a disagreement here. But if we're going to decide whether or not the coal is going to end, or what it's going to shut down, but most importantly, what we're going to replace it with, we've already got one minute past twelve. We have prepared all this within the coal commission. But I don't understand another thing. The coal commission that ended with us has not been convened since then, which I consider to be a scandalous matter, because it is not a political instrument, a coal committee, it was especially an expert instrument. When we look at it, there were a lot of people in the business, energy, but there were reasonable people in the political area from my point of view, and basically we agreed on the overwhelming majority of things. Why aren't we discussing this today? Why didn't she meet, why don't we ask her how much longer she'll benefit from OKD if she expires at the end of this year, in a better way in the middle of next year? Why are we underestimating this? Why, as today's only matter of energy within renewable sources, are we dealing with an honest statement? That's what's wrong with me. So is the gas. Why don't we figure out a way to change the laws for it, or to amend the laws, because he was changed at the end of last year, but again, there was no idea about the gas crisis - so why aren't we dealing with legislation today to deal with the problems that are here today? None of this is coming to an emergency meeting. But what's worse, none of this matters, unfortunately, even at the Ministry of Industry. Another area that we are here today to address as an extraordinary, important point, which we would probably miss, is the electronic record of sales. Yes, we introduced it, just like we introduced an electronic highway sign, like we introduced an eRecipe, like we introduced an electronic disability. Certainly, if we fight through this point in the coming days, there will be a huge number of performances to do it, and we will discuss why, in the 21st century, when one country after another passes to a certain form of electronization - I'm not saying that they all have exactly the same system as we had, those countries are just a couple that have the system that we have, but they go to electronization, which probably gives logic - why are we canceling this tool? Why are we interrupting him despite the fact that the unions, associations, professional associations want it? Why are we destroying a unified system that gave it some sort of order, some kind of system? Why do we not reflect on the fact that entrepreneurs wanted a fair environment that this system allows? Yes, you will argue: we promised. You're right, you've always been against it, and you've made a political decision that in the 21st century, you've shut down a practical electronic tool, although it has proved that no one has failed, that everyone has got used to it, and that the unions and associations - at last, there will be a big discussion tomorrow - have stood up for it. But I understand the political decision. That's your full right. What I don't understand anymore is that it doesn't even voluntarily allow itself to be used by electronic sales records because it's being saved because the system just cancels out completely. So the companies that get used to it, the companies that want to use it, the companies that have purchased the software, the hardware that have accepted the fact that the environment isn't as fair as you promised, so they want one thing - and there's not enough - it's most businessmen. They want to make use of it at least voluntarily, because it is also an instrument of some internal control and, above all, it is a thing that everyone is used to, a thing new. So we're gonna cancel this, too. This is why we are calling an emergency meeting in which we have this item. Once again, why aren't we dealing with priorities? This is the same as the first point - renewable energy sources. Instead of dealing with really energy problems, whether instant or medium or long-term, we're dealing with absolutely irrelevant things and we're sitting here maybe by Friday. So is business support. Why aren't extraordinary meetings called on to really show the problem of the current business sector? What's up with the companies today? When I rise above canceling the electronic sales log that those companies wanted, we don't even talk about how to work, how to support, or at least how to set up a system so that companies can survive at a time when they have to borrow for six, six and a half, some even for seven percent. Since the Czech National Bank is constantly raising interest rates, the reprisal is now at 5%. They're really thinking about getting bigger. The depreciation of money, or inflation, is at 13 and 12.7 percent, respectively. We have the third highest in Europe. Inflation has gone completely out of control, not as a result of our government. Since January this year, it has fallen apart because nothing has been done to reduce the impact of energy prices as most countries do. When we look at what inflation consists of, energy plays a very, very important role there. It's different in different countries. Here, too, I suspect, with the Treasury Secretary, I was arguing about whether it was 50 percent or 30 percent, 35 percent. But in any case, this is an absolutely crucial amount of energy price growth in annual inflation growth. We can agree on that. Yes, then there are other important items such as food, such as housing. Among other things, housing is more expensive, of course, as a result of the prices of new buildings, which are higher because of energy prices, partly for fuel and so on. But we don't do anything with the fuel, either. So instead of discussing today how to stand up to the fact that Czech companies are completely cornered, because while their competitors - whether from the west or from the east, that is paradoxical - are borrowing at reasonable rates, we are now borrowing double, triple more than six months ago or three quarters a year ago, and the government is applauding it. Not only does he applaud it, but he's not even trying to look for programs, like a guarantee character that's not bad. At the time of the covid, we set up the guarantee system and used 100 billion crowns. One hundred billion crowns that the government has not issued, but which the government has prepared as a guarantee instrument for a crisis period. Why isn't something like this activated now? Why isn't what we were doing at the very time of the covideo when the guarantees were between 80 and 90 percent? Maybe that's what's gonna help those companies today. The guarantees could get even better. I'm not saying we had it on genius, we were picking it up, too. But this is what I assumed we could all be dealing with, even in an emergency meeting of the House. Why isn't the impact of energy prices on entrepreneurs addressed? Another key item. No, instead, we're having an emotional argument here about whether the cost of a spinner and its margin is okay or not. It is discussed whether the discounts will be cancelled or the discounts will be cancelled instead of going after the substance of the matter - because price growth is mainly due to the rise in the prices of the inputs of those producers, and especially energy inputs. What did we do to get the companies to take a little breath? When high interest rates are being paid, extremely high energy prices still apply, which would, of course, also apply abroad. The problem is that they are trying to accommodate them at least partially abroad. It's never quite possible. What do we do about high fuel prices? And now I'm talking about the business sector again, I'm not dealing with households now. We are talking about electronic sales records and what we do for businessmen, in an emergency meeting, instead of opening up all the options here, discussing what can help in transport prices. Because growth in transport prices is one of the other reasons why inflation is growing, and of course this is due to high fuel prices. Then more or less marketing measures such as biocomponents were taken here. As it turned out, we all know. Before it saw the light of God, all those to whom it should have touched, it means distributors, they said they'd still have to mix them in. So the 50 to two crowns that were promised here are gone. Yes, I accept the excise duty, it was done after our enormous pressure and after the pressure of ČESMAD and other carriers, so crown fifty. Thank God for her. But I don't know if at all the prices that go up, this is gonna tear us apart. [[12.10 hours]] Why is neither the resort nor the legal change in raw materials policy addressed? After all, we all need to see what is happening not only with regard to the prices of raw materials, which is often forgotten, much energy is discussed, much electricity, gas is discussed, it is a mess. It's a total mess. But the smallest problem is raw materials. This is also another reason why we have high inflation. Let us stop hiding behind what the previous government has done or hasn't done here, how it bears the blame on our shoulders for having high inflation, and let us think about whether the price of products is becoming more expensive because, beyond the increase in energy, transport and fuel prices, our raw materials are also growing. And what are we doing about it? What's the raw material policy? What precautions are we taking? We're not doing anything! What is another problem for companies that today have to look at dealing with electronic sales records? I mean, we must be making fun of those companies. Guys. And that's another reason why we have higher inflation. Because higher inflation is also due to the fact that there is an inflexible labour market. And, yes, there's self-esteem here. Yes, we could have done more in this. There is a very low unemployment rate, we fought with the unions back then, we fought with our coalition partner, we did not, in my opinion, do enough to be able to employ workers from other countries, such as Ukraine, more elegantly today. Of course, the tense labour market is pushing for inflation growth. Those are the things that all businessmen are interested in today. And we'll be dealing with electronic sales records! And I'm not even talking about the possible compensation for the gas being disconnected here. The Ministry of Industry mysteriously says: yes, we have a plan. They've got nothing! Marketing. God forbid, if the gas were to be disconnected, and logically it would have to start shutting down in industry, we don't have any options prepared at all, neither the disconnecting scenario, nor the compensatory scenario. And I'm not even talking about the payback for the covid time anymore. I can't imagine what you would do, but now I'm talking to the coalition at a time when there was a opposition, if we had written a program, a major program, a support program six months after the restrictions took place, although the Minister of Industry had it all prepared in December, so he eventually wrote it more or less the same, he modified something, although I may not like it, but he modified it with six months delay. So instead of all of this, we're dealing with fundamental things, it's just phrases, promises, academic instruction. And if something doesn't work out, it just goes under the table, and somehow it always happens, see the 74 billion crowns. That was a masterpiece. Marketing advisors prepared the materials and the entire government unisono began to say that CZK 74 billion had paid off. When I pass the fact that 10 billion crowns were paid off and that Czech TV had to catch you there, if you didn't put at least on us, the famous 74 billion crowns were found to go to the government in a better way, it was not possible yet, but I believe the laws were passed, 10 billion crowns. That's the excise tax, that's the road tax that's probably approved, and it's the existential and living minimums. I'm not saying 10 billion is wrong. It's very bad. At present, CZK 10 billion does not really solve the situation when the government will have at least CZK 15 billion more out of CEZ alone. Well, where's the rest of it? The other 49 and 15 billion? Yes, these are measures that are gradually taking place, on which this government has little merit. Nothing. Not a peep. Zero. Pure zero. Valorization of pensions. Yes, that's an obligation, honourable members of the government. You'd have to do that anyway. And the extraordinary valorization, well, you voted against it, except for a few KDU-ČSL Members, to be precise. And the 15 billion crowns tax discounts on the taxpayer? Remember how you fought against it. So thank God we pushed this through. So that's one masterpiece that didn't work out. Next. Gas crisis. Instead of just going forward and saying yes, there was little gas in the containers, we will try to do something about it - in fact, there was little gas for us always after the season. There's no other way, it's selling out. [[Unintelligible]] Except the difference is there was no war for us. So after two months of arguments, convincing them that something needs to be bought or that it is necessary to motivate traders to put a price on them to be motivated to complement them, so something finally started to happen. To divert attention, you have put the energy lobbyists and various political failures in the hands of material with which individual editors orbit and tell them that the problem of having little gas now is that our government has not built a Polish pipeline. Only that it forgot to look into the document and not to believe that it was our government, and the government before it, to be precise, which not only supported it, but that it was approved, that it was rejected by Poland and that, at the time it refused, the political former officials from 2006, 2008, 2010 who were rattling guns to do it in favour of Russian gas, today they are laughing in the eye. [[Verify]] Yes, they were the ones who wanted us to go the Slovak way. that means we don't do the BAC gas pipeline. Despite these players, we supported him in the European Commission. However, in the end, the European Commission did not approve this project, which is why it was not done. So that's why this isn't here today. And we can talk about why Poland decided not to go this way. Unfortunately, it was decided because the interests of Europe, which were for Russian gas, remember Nord Stream 1, Nord Stream 2, Eustream, sorry, not Eustream, South Stream, TurkStream, and so on as Nabucco, as European leaders applauded it. Well, business support? How do you beat it by not being one? By making a mockery of what was paid out at the time of the covid. By demoting that there was support for 700,000 subjects. Support that was less than what the opposition asked for at the time. It requested 100 per cent of the costs. We gave 50 percent. Today the same parties say: you gave much, you should give less. Well, we were giving half of what the opposition wanted back then. I've done the math. If the business sector really supported the amount that the opposition wanted then and I only take the expression of top politicians, it would be about CZK 190 billion more hole in the budget. But that's another story. In any case, the priorities that we will be dealing with by Friday today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, I don't know, are those that really don't bother citizens or companies at the moment, with the only exception, and those are those state insured people and contributions. And here the government is going in the exact opposite direction. At an emergency meeting, he will propose that this amount be reduced by CZK 14 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. President Babiš will now speak with priority rights. Before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. Today, for work reasons, Mrs Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš apologizes, and today from 12 to 16 o'clock for work reasons, Minister Anna Hubáčková apologises. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u12	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would first comment on the media strategy of this new government. The strategy is basically coordinated, it seems to be centrally managed, because all five-calice ministers repeat the same thing. And the government's strategy is to lie and claim our work. So I'm just going to repeat very briefly what this new government is lying about. She's lying about debt, she's lying about inflation, she's lying about Green Deal, she's lying about Poland's gas pipeline, she's lying about the building bill, she's lying about the national cancer project, she's lying about biostacks, she's not answering the question, she's lying about spending 77 billion, that's another lie, and she's lying about the 74 billion she was supposed to direct. He's lying about the company's distribution, supposedly we're supposed to split up the company. So these are the main lies. And it lies, of course, about the fact that the area support is wrong, and ultimately it is realized by itself. And then he takes up our work - Dukovany, two years of work Havlíček, taxonomy - that's what I'm going to talk about, emission allowances, investment in transport infrastructure. So these are all the things that the government is doing, and they're doing it uniformly. I'm surprised. We were a minority government, and we didn't coordinate at all. Social democracy said what it wanted to the media, and we said what we wanted. But what's interesting here is that everyone always repeats the lies the same way, the five-calibers. Well, why is that? Well, because our old friends came back, those who were driving, the puppeteer, the famous Prague attorney who was driving Prime Minister Sobotka. And when I became Minister of Finance, the former Prime Minister complained that we canceled the contract for Bison & Rose on Čepra, a ridiculous 500,000. That was the first time he talked to me, the second time it was about Kapsch. And this Prague attorney, who implemented the failed project Totok, put his people in the system of five-wheelers. So the main censor is at the Office of the Government, the second chief advisor is there too, and our old friend Evička Hanáčková, who runs the entire MIT. People leave the MIT, good people. The theory that someone came from Agrofert is ridiculous. Jirotková, Tauberová, head of CzechInvest, never received him. So it's a five-caliber. But we have another subject here, and that's the six-some structure of the Prague attorney who runs the MIT, Mr. Minister, who is the product of Mr. Michalik. Síkela was fired from Austrian bank by Mr.Kratina, the most successful director of Czech Post, former director of Hypovereinsbank. So that's the structure and, of course, it's the people who have a huge reach for the media that supply the media with these untruths, and of course it's clear that where the media was before the election. Yesterday in Roudnice nad Labem, I was attacked by a team of reporters from this Mr. Wollner. I don't want to mark it, but I won the pirát trial again today, but lawyers are already telling me to behave, so I'm not gonna say what I think of him. Well, what do you think they came up with? Gas pipeline to Poland. Totally made-up thing. Totally made up, and everyone's saying it again. Everyone's saying it again. Mrs. Richterová, I'm looking forward to it at 2:30, she knows what kind of gas a German chemist buys. So today they're gonna learn about how it is with the gas, that gas is being purchased, that there's no Russian, cathartic, LNG, Norwegian. The nonsense, the things that are here in the media space, where the main lobbyist, the main lobbyist and the worst prime minister in this country's history, the most corrupt, sits in Eustream. Well, what's Eustream? Well, that's the company that's most interested in delivering Russian gas through Slovakia, and he goes on TV and he says something. Well, that's incredible stuff. So I'm going back to the debt. Please, the government keeps saying there's no money, there's no money. I think they have finally understood that they cannot say that there is no money, that we are the sixth least indebted country in the European Union. Then when they finally said it's probably awkward to lie so much, they said there's a trend that's a bad trend. And, of course, the media, when they talk about it, won't say that Mrs. Schillerová borrowed into foreta, in advance, under good conditions, but still the debt to GDP by the end of 2021 was lower than I joined the Ministry of Finance in January 2014. He was lower. And if we forget Luxembourg, Estonia and Bulgaria, and these idistates, we are really the least indebted country next to Sweden. The coalition is blaming us for our debt. Finally, journalists, write down the number: it is 693 billion Czech crowns, increased debt, we were better at percentage than the coalition 2013. And when I was watching Emmanuel Macron's debate with Le Penová and Le Penová said, you've made 600 billion euros of debt! That's 15,000 Czech billions. He said, "Yeah, it's a covido debt." What was I supposed to do? Should I have allowed 10, 15 percent unemployment? No, I gave it to people! [[In an elevated voice.]] And the Francouz understood that. The Francouz got it. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] Here, before the election, our seniors got spooked by these lies. Their children, some of them, went to them and said, "Babiš will owe you, you won't have a pension, granddaughter, everything will be a problem." And unfortunately, some believed it. Some believed it. It's nonsense. It is nonsense because the Czech Republic has great public finances. And look at the state of the finances of self-government. When the municipal elections start, look at how much money we've given to the government. In the context of the refugee crisis, what did the government give to the regions? She gave them nothing, not a penny. We paid for everything - tests, firefighters, police, vaccines; everything we did - rewards to seniors' homes, employees'. We paid for everything, our government. Our government. Today, the chieftains didn't get a penny for the refugee crisis. So our finances, the Standard & Poor's or other agencies, they're international independent agencies, and they've confirmed a great rating. So this is the biggest lie. And, of course, the problem is that the government doesn't understand at all that the budget, apart from spending, has revenue. In the normal world that I came from, even in households, he's got some budget, you've got some paycheck, and then you'll see what you can spend. It's a normal world that first there's income, then there's expenses. The countries have it on the contrary - they have expenses first, and income is not much to worry about. Yes, those are the macropredictions. And already the first macroprediction on January 20, 2022 she said, and this government is incredibly lucky at everything de facto, because they - I forgot they were bragging about a covid they didn't do anything with. Secretary Válek has destroyed everything we've built, vaccinations, he's not even able to sell the vaccines, he's still bragging about it. [[12.30 hours]] So basically, the first macro already said they're going to get $62 billion extra. The second macro said 69. Those are the sources. And we still recommend to the government: remember that you have a lot of money in the European Union. Four nights and five days I fought for European funds. And I won $42 billion extra. 978 billion extra. And the Modernization Fund is going to be 1,000 billion. So you have 1,000 billion, 978 billion, 230 billion will reach you for the 2014-2020 program. You already have 70 more today. And look at CEZ. It's going to have a 100 percent higher profit. You'll have a big pile in June, so take the money. You can take 15 more. You can take 32 billion. So I figured it all out for you. You have 2,260 billion resources there. But that's not what you're talking about. You keep lying to people and saying, "There's no money." There's money! We have great public finances. We have good finances for self-government. And the trend, of course, is nonsense, because we're 14 in the end in the trend. Then we have our famous inflation. I really don't understand if it's so difficult to understand that if this government says, and of course it's all our fault, we caused inflation by giving people money that we reduced taxes to employees by 7 percent, it cost a lot of money, but the ODS voted with us, and of course we gave more money to pensioners across the board, because it's the fastest and it can be done very easily. So, actually, citizens, you're responsible for getting the money, and that's what caused the inflation. In Hypernov in Čestlice, where I go to buy rolls - now I've been on an unstoppable diet, today I've had an MRI, and I can finally start eating - so there's a roll for 2.30, and they're still homemade for 4.90. That's what they do. So imagine there's one roll, and now there's a hundred people coming in and everybody wants a roll. And eventually, someone buys that roll for 15 kroner. Well, that's bullshit, isn't it? There is no such inflation. We all know what inflation is like. That it's energy, oil, gas, that it's the main inflation. Yes. Our local inflation is in what? In real estate! There aren't enough flats. People are scared, so they buy. So apartments, yes, I can say there, yes, it's inflation. So one more time. I don't know if the citizens feel they've caused the inflation. When their savings went up by 549 billion in one year, because our citizens are reasonable and put their money away. Well, of course it's stupid. And before the election, Prime Minister Fiala said it was Babišův's precious, Babišův's inflation. And, of course, we did something against inflation, or we couldn't influence inflation. We gave people money. We reduced VAT from 21 percent to zero to electricity, gas and heating to November and December. That is why we hit inflation at 5.3 percent in December and were 14th in Europe. And of course, the new government didn't continue in January, so VAT jumped in. So it's their inflation. But I'm not saying it's Fialův's price. It's inflation. And today we are the third worst in Europe. Third worst in Europe! Why? Because the government, even if it makes more money from people, just doesn't want to forgive them and help them effectively. And what's the effective help? Our colleagues here have already spoken the 5,000 crowns. Well, that's a farce, of course, because they don't even know what gross and net wages are in government, and the pirát say it's energy compensation. Some say it's a contribution to students when they go back to school. And basically, Mr. Jurečka said in an interview in Law on Saturday that he didn't really know how to evaluate it, who would evaluate it, what criteria are they, and who would actually pay the money. When we were in the government - and anyway, I'm just shocked how cool the government is, they work Wednesday to cut off the House, so they don't work on Monday, and when there was a crisis, we worked until the moment it decided, and then we clearly said when it's going to be, what it's going to be, how much to whom. Yes, that's how we did it. And they sent a signal again. So maybe somebody gets something in August. But they don't know anything. They don't know anything. But I'm glad that perhaps under our pressure and, of course, overall under pressure in society, the government has finally sent out some kind of signal that it will give people money. Interestingly, the Prime Minister has always criticized, not always, the Prime Minister said on April 21, 2022: "We are defending ourselves with measures that would help even those who do not need it so much at the moment. [[reads from the background]] It would cost a lot of money, and it would turn inflation." It's that nonsense again. And Jurečka's first kick was 90 percent of the families. And what did the Prime Minister say on April 1, 2020? [[He's reading from another background.]] "Abroad, governments are launching large-scale measures to save businessmen and entrepreneurs, only with us Babišův's government is laying down many complicated conditions. It looks like he's trying to achieve as few people as possible to support. At this point, there is no time for difficult solutions; we need to help quickly," Fiala said on April 1, 2020. That's not what he's saying right now. So they keep saying what they need to say. So once again, for everyone to understand, maybe some journalists will understand. If we caused inflation by giving people money, then explain to me why the inflation in the Fialův government is much higher when Mr. Fiala didn't give people any money? I don't know. So maybe first grade will understand, or I don't know, even in kindergarten, they'll understand. No? It's a three-piece. It's a three-piece. That's the inflation. And we don't say Purple's price. It's changed. Babišův's precious and Putinův's precious. So the Prime Minister, the marketers over there probably told him, you have to call Putinův's expensive. It doesn't matter. It's simply an expensive thing that can hardly be influenced. So we need to help people. You need to help people quickly and without them having to go somewhere so they don't have to fill out a form, a housing supplement, that's the energy help. [[They had to.]] I don't know how many, 40,000 people asked for it, but they could have asked for hundreds. It's not working. It's not working. And we've made it clear how we can help. Well, as we helped in November and December. That people on the electricity, gas, and heat bill will see in renewables -- that's the solar tunnel that Havlíček was talking about, 600 billion that was stolen here, that was the Topolánkův solar tunnel -- that's a great way to track it, 600 billion -- so there's going to be zero and there's going to be zero in the VAT item. And that's where the people will see that they don't have to go anywhere, except they'll pay the invoice, it's deducted. And this is the help of the state that we are proposing, apart from, of course, other things like the mobility allowance and so on. So that's the inflation. And it's all over again. And I don't understand why anyone keeps saying that, because when you think about it logically, it doesn't make any sense. Now it's fashionable and it's gas on the table. And that's incredible. And those people who understand the gas, they have to go behind their heads, because it's like an incredible hell we're learning here. This government has no idea how the gas purchase mechanism works. It doesn't buy the state, it buys private companies. And why doesn't anyone say what it's like in this region? The kuponový privatization and privatisation of banks had a total negative impact on our economy and we will never get out of it again, which is why 250 billion dividends go abroad every year. [[12.40 hours]] Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Austria have state companies. Poland has a state company for the purchase and distribution of gas. They had a direct contract with Gazprom, Gazprom told them, I don't want to deal with it at all. Slovakia has Slovak natural gas priemysel. He's got a business. Slovakia has power plants. In Slovakia the refinery is owned by MOL. Hungarian state firm. The Czech refinery is owned by the Polish state company PKN Orlen. There is an OMV in Austria. It owns gas and pumps. Who distributes fuel in the Czech Republic? Polák and Maďar. What do we have? We don't have anything. We've got nothing, we've put everything away. And it's interesting that no one is able to name it as it was. Transgas. Transgas was a state company and this Transgas was sold in 2002 for 132 billion RWE. It's a German company. And what did RWE do? RWE sold it out. Sold large NET4GAS pipelines, a Canadian company, a global company and sold Innogy to a Hungarian company. The Hungarian state firm. So if anyone doesn't know, Innoga, which belongs to the Hungarian state, has 40 percent of the gas distribution in the Czech Republic. So while the Prime Minister only goes to Poland, I feel that besides Poland, there may be no other Member State in the European Union, so he can ask Orbán about the largest gas distributor in the Czech Republic. It's the Innogy company. So we sold everything under the coupon, we're, of course, the coupon, then the banks were actually looting, and then they were sold abroad too, so we have nothing left. Then please let someone explain to me how the Czech state will buy. Yes, now Mr. Síkela has bought 2.5 terawatt hours of gas for 8.5 billion. It's interesting that Mr. Stanjura has raised 8.5 billion in such a short time. One whole eight billion for the old fare discounts and he didn't have for the students - that's 0.1 percent of the budget spending 2020, so suddenly 8.5 billion is here on the table. The state's material reserves were competing and they bought it in some way, and I'm gonna wonder how they're gonna sell it, who's really responsible. Why didn't they do it on the German model where they told distributors in Germany: buy it, and if you sell it, there'll be a problem, we'll support you. So the gas situation is that we have nothing, we have no one to buy for, it belongs to someone else entirely. And most importantly, please, the gas is purchased like gas. And those distributors don't even know the distributors, if it's Russian, but I've already talked about that, it's all nonsense. [[unintelligible]] And here, of course, the media space once again became a lie that we neglected something. And I fundamentally reject it, because, of course, the reportér are going to say something again next Monday. Here is an article from 2016, where it was clearly stated that the Czech party, together with the Polish party, implemented a subsidy of EUR 70 million in the European Commission for a project to be implemented by NET4GAS with the Polish state company Gaz-System. And it's clearly written here that the Polák backed out. [[He's showing the documents.]] Yes, it was then that Prime Minister Sobotka signed a noncommittal memorandum that said they would continue to do so. But who's most interested in us not having any more pipelines? So we don't have a gas pipeline to Austria so we don't have a gas pipeline to Poland? Well, logically, those who supply gas through Slovakia, and, of course, where there is a monopoly, and, of course, those who supply it from Germany. Then somebody tells the lie that I've never even heard of it in my life or discussed it, but it's a good time to be in that media space. And the most absurd part is that Norwegian gas is being spoken now. Mr. Vondra says we've neglected something. But they won't tell you the basis, MEP Vondra said he kicked us into doing something: when the State of Transgas made a gas contract with Norway in 1997, it had the logic that it had the effect of the state, that the state could say yes, here we have an agreement with Norway. But when the Transgas RWE sold, of course, the contract ended, and the state had no influence whatsoever. So it's all over again. That's over and over again, the lies. And now it's interesting that, yes, a small contract directly from Gazprom has CEZ. And the contract is advantageous. And will someone from the government sign an order not to buy it? So he doesn't touch the contract? So that the same gas that he buys from another distributor will pay $1.5 billion extra? It's all fabulous and nonsense. It's just politics. And then, of course, the biggest thing is that Mr. former Prime Minister Topolánek, that's the one that wasn't worse here, became Eustream's transport manager in 2015. And Eustream is a pipe in Slovakia, it's Russian gas. So Mr. Topolánek is saying something about Norway, he's saying something about what we are, and he's a major lobbyist for Russian gas. Because he's in a company that transports Russian gas! And logically, the more the company transports, the more it cashes. Here's an article from May 13, 2014. This is where he lobbied on Nord Stream. Mr. Topolánek said it was necessary to build a Nord Stream pipeline! Mr. Topolánek sits in a company that transports Russian gas! So please, reporters, at least try the basics! All you have to do is monitor! Monitoring's enough. So that's all the lies we didn't do. No, we came into politics because they ruined everything here. They privatized everything. Everything. That's why the dividends, that's why we got nothing. That's why we have no influence! And I'm not talking about water! The water's gone, the gas's gone. Refineries were sold for one dollar and some ridiculous investment. Look at the profits of the refinery this year, what profits CEZ will have! Where are the people's money going? Where's he going? Well, VAT goes to the state, and, of course, the profits go to these companies. These companies. So the gas - I'll wait for Vice President Richterová to talk about it. So she was an expert on covid, now she understands gas. Then I'll allow myself to step up to the gas to inform her of how it works. There's one specification for gas. All gas sources are the same qualitatively. It's different with oil! And could the minister finally go to those refineries to teach him that one oil pipeline is going to Litvínov, there is Russian oil, and the other oil pipeline to the Kralupa refinery, there they use sweet oil from Azerbaijan, which drives ships on the Black Sea to Trieste and then the pipeline up. They keep saying things and they don't even know the basics. [[12.50 hours]] And if I've read today that the Czech Republic is in favour of stopping oil supplies, well, fine, then let the government take responsibility for not having fuel for the rations. Luckily. I prevented the privatization of Chepra they were going to. And Čepro is a diamond, it's a gold treasure. That's distribution. If there's a big problem, of course, Leuna's refinery can do it. But those refineries in Germany, from a third, belong to Russia. Now they're nationalizing it, so God knows how it's gonna turn out. But it would be good for that government to finally understand how it works. And those political statements are fine, but the point is that we don't really put our people at risk here, so that they're basically fuel, because that addiction is here. And if anyone blames anyone for doing something? These reporters asked me why I didn't respond after the cast of Crimea. Unbelievable question. And we have basically dealt with all this within the European Union. I mean, Prime Minister Fiala said we'd all be shopping together. Of course we won't be shopping. Of course not. And that solidarity that's still being talked about. Yes, we have solidarity. But the moment there are no vaccines, solidarity is over. What we had to do, and the Němec didn't give us the vaccines. And they unjustly divided the vaccines. It wasn't based on population. It was about money. That was no longer solidarity. And I'm curious if something isn't going to happen, how solidarity is going to be. And I do not question the system that we have helped each other and so on, but behind those closed doors at the European Council, it works quite differently than it is declared. So much for the gas. Now I'd like to see another one. And I was absolutely shocked the last time the Prime Minister was here with a smile selling my work. The Prime Minister claims that he was responsible for each member country having an independent energy mix. It's like incredible. I really wouldn't expect that from the Prime Minister. And I don't know who's writing it to him. I don't know who's texting him. And I looked it up. And it would be good for the Prime Minister to read it. Nothing is signed at the European Council. That's where you have to be careful. We're alone there. That's where you must speak your language. I'm not going back to the former Prime Minister who couldn't do anything. And there, if you don't check in on time, you're out of luck. There are conclusions, these are conclusions, and they don't vote. The chairman will ask: "Do you have anything else? And if you're out, or you're out, I don't know, in coffee or in the bathroom, you're out of luck. You have to sit there, you have to watch it. This is the decisive place to fight for Czech interests. Czech Sovereign Prime Minister, Czech - I firmly hope that our Presidency will not change to be a puppet of the Polish state. I had a good relationship with Morawiecký all the way to Turów. Yes, then it's over. And now the government's policy is that all of Poland. Turów - disaster. I understand the train to Kiev, calling Scholz through Morawiecký and so on. I don't know why the Prime Minister hasn't accepted Emmanuel Macron twice. I mean, he's sitting next to him, here's France, and here's Magdalena from Sweden, who I've always said, "Hey, your migration is gonna be a mess." Well, here we go. There's already a big problem in Sweden. So it would be good for the Prime Minister to finally meet Emmanuel Macron bilaterally, who is still the President of the European Union for two months. We are waiting for this Presidency. And when I see the signals that are going to be topics. If the real issue of the Czech Presidency is the reconstruction of Ukraine and helping Ukraine, I do not understand it. I don't get it. But I will return to the European Council. I tracked it down, and I remember what the big fight was, sitting there all night with the Austrian Prime Minister. She almost cried there, Angela comforted her: Babiš is not so bad. But Babiš fought for Czech interests. And on 12 December 2019, Section 1, Climate Change, paragraph 6 states: "The European Council recognises the need to ensure energy security and respect the right of Member States to decide on their own energy mix and choose the most appropriate technologies. Some Member States have indicated that nuclear energy is part of their national energy mix.' We fought for hours to put the word core in it. And the Prime Minister today says he's got something going on. He didn't enforce anything. After all, even the European Council, which I rushed to in December 2017, left me there on December 16, 2021. The European Council on 11 December 2020. Here are paragraphs 12 to 22 and for us in particular 14 to 17. In order not to read all of this, paragraph 14 states: "The European Council recognises the need to ensure interconnection, energy security for all Member States, energy at a price both for households and businesses, and respect the right of Member States to decide on their own energy mix and choose the most appropriate technologies in order to achieve a collective climate target for 2030, including transitional technologies such as gas'. Yes, we were all in that when coal ends, it goes on the gas. And no one wanted it. Now everyone's saying no gas, all right. Then let someone finally say that the gas doesn't and the coal goes on. How many times have we called on the current government, Minister Stanjura. OKD, which we saved, which was helped by the attorney who runs the Síkela today, tunneled, received 130 billion by the owner of Economie. And the apartments that they were mopping out and not giving people? And who ran the apartments? Look what they did in OKD. The man who watched Mittal pull 52 billion out of the New Huta, and they all kept their mouths shut, the same man was fixing Bakalův's apartments that he didn't give to people. And that man became chairman of the Supervisory Board of OKD. You gotta be kidding me. And OKD can extract 6 million tons of coal. Then why won't the government say so? We saved the OKD, otherwise it would have gone bankrupt and everything would have been sold out. OKD has 4.5 billion in accounts. Why isn't the government handling this? Why doesn't he say we're going to continue coal mining? I mean, it's employment in the region. I mean, they're sub-deliveries for the companies. Why aren't they doing that? I don't understand. So I'll continue to conclude. So I fundamentally decline when the Prime Minister takes credit for taxonomy. Taxonomy, we've been fighting for this for two years. And the European Commission, because it's slow, of course, took them long enough. And in the end it was formalized after the start, it was supposed to be by Christmas, it was supposed to be last year. So this is one particular example of how the government or the Prime Minister sells my work. Yes, a lot of my colleagues helped me, but sometimes I just didn't put up with the officials' suggestions. I didn't. Because I was the sovereign Czech Prime Minister. Do you know how many officials the European Commission pays in the Czech Republic? Five thousand! Five thousand Czech officials are paid by the European Commission. And then we can talk about who the officials are loyal to. The Czech State or who? So it happened that I just didn't agree to it. They were always worried, and now you're blocking it, and what are those colleagues gonna say...? Well, they won't say anything. They won't say anything. [[13.00 hours]] Emission allowances. The Prime Minister didn't say so. Issuance permit. You can watch the debate on CNN Prima News accusing me of doing nothing. I wrote three letters, I got out four times, I was looking for allies, Španěl, Řek, others were with me, even the Polák. And the directive is scandalous. The directive allows capital to speculate. Instead of making the directive clear that emission allowances only have to be purchased by companies that have to reduce emissions, anyone can buy it, and it was clear that the price would only increase. And the European Commission's prediction was completely out of order, going from 30 euros to 100! And that has a 25 per cent impact on the price of electricity. And now, finally, on the road to Poland, the Prime Minister said the word emission allowances. Yes, but Mateusz Morawiecki... We've always shared it with each other within the V4, who was the leader of what. Mateusz Morawiecki pushed the Modernization Fund. And by the way, we have the second-largest money from the Modernization Fund. And from that Modernization Fund, you can finally pay people those renewables fees, that's ridiculous 19 billion, and VAT is 1.8 a month, you can pay it, you'll have 62 billion by the end of the year, instead of using it in the budget. So emission allowances finally. All right, I'll be sure to keep my fingers crossed. And it's not easy. It's not that I criticize that it's easy to achieve because some states are cool, they don't have emissions, their industry, and by keeping it clean, so, of course, they're big beneficiaries of emission allowances. And it should be transparent, the government should tell us exactly where it's going. So this government is very lucky that it just didn't have to deal with anything. Covid's been solved. If you read the second sentence of the government's programming statement, it says about inflation and the energy crisis. I don't know what they did there. We talked about that. Well, last year it was still about that - another lie, a hundred times repeated lie - Green Deal, that I should have signed Green Deal. That's a lie, of course. I never signed that. Well, what about the Green Deal, anyway? Is the Green Agreement insane? And I think Timmermans is crazy. He's normally crazy. He's a normal fanatic. A fanatic. It's a shame he didn't rather become an agent for foreign affairs instead of that vain Borrell that everyone makes fun of. He'd be in a good place. But he's a fanatic. And is the Green Agreement really madness or an opportunity for better tomorrows and for saving the planet? Where did the green rush come from in Europe, and how can the Czech Republic deal with it, and what was it like with the Green Agreement over the past two years? I will start with an informal summit in Sibiu on the future of the European Union under the Romanian Presidency in the Council in May 2019. Six months before Ursula von der Leyen became President of the Commission... Can I ask you to keep it quiet here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u13	I feel and ask my colleagues to keep the discussion down and move it into the lobby. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u14	So six months before Ursula von der Leyen became chairman of the commission and set out as the first of her six priorities for the next five years that Europe was to become the first climate neutral continent - Angela Merkelová, with light irony, called on us to look at the whole thing more realisticly, asked where we would get the energy we needed in industrial regions where there is often not enough sun or wind, and certainly not all day long and night for continuous operations. She joked that carbon is one of the three elements that mostly consist of the organic world, and that carbon dioxide is produced by cows when they fart - and that's why we don't stop eating goulash, right? Angela said. It was, of course, the last time I heard Angela joking like that, and two years later, some of her fellow citizens wouldn't have much fun, especially if they were depending on lunches in the vegetarian racing dining room of the well-known German group. But times simply change. Many citizens in Germany, Austria, Benelux and Scandinavia, but also the Pobaltí people simply want at least a cleaner planet at any cost. We are all aware of our share of responsibility for climate change. We know that global temperature is increasing and it is impossible to pretend that nothing is happening. We know how the water decreases in the Czech Republic, how our forests dry, and how more and more animal and plant species are decreasing. But we must also realise that, under the pretext of combating climate change, we will not destroy our way of life and our economy. Carbon-free Europe in 2050 and the commitment to reduce emissions in 2030 by 55 per cent compared to 1990 soon became the mantra of the European Commission supported by a large majority of Member States. While some knew that achieving this goal would be very difficult, on the other hand, how else to deal with climate change than together? In October 2019, because of the agreement on the commitment to carbon neutrality in 2050, we for the first time stayed up overnight at the European Council and finally it was Poland, which remained completely isolated, but agreed after a few months. Why? Well, because it was known that the Commission would, anyway, submit legislation aimed at reducing emissions, and this legislation was voted majorityly in the Council, unfortunately. The local minority was lost very soon by countries whose economies were too ambitious for the Commission's objectives. Any blocking minority is almost impossible without Germany or France or at least Italy or Spain. It was also known that those who did not join this commitment would not be able to touch on the huge amount of the European budget intended for the green trance. So even the Polák understood that their right to veto the European Council is essentially a meaningless political gesture in this case, and they began to wonder how to use it on the contrary. We have had two similar nights in Brussels - in December 2019 and May 2021, just before the completion of legislation to achieve the agreed objectives in the European Union, which is called Fit for 55, i.e. ready for a reduction of 55 percent of emissions compared to 1990. I have always been realistic, and I have always pushed confirmation of our reality to the conclusions of the European Council, namely that for some states the efforts they make to achieve common goals will be incomparably higher, and that account must be taken of that, as well as the need to increase core energy in the energy mix, the use of gas after a transitional period after the closure of coal power plants or taking into account the fact that a significant part of the Czech forests has eaten the crust. - For that we thank Minister Jurečka, who gave nothing, we gave 14 billion, our government. Finally, I have also focused on the fact that the transformation of our economy and so far mostly fossil energy will be incredibly expensive, and I have made sure that support financial instruments such as. A fair trance fund, and strengthened the Modernization Fund, which helps poorer countries with high energy intensity. Under these not very tempting names, almost 43 billion crowns are hidden to support the so-called coal regions - Karlovy Vary, Ústecko and Moravia - and about 150 billion crowns for the whole republic. Yes, we have fought this for our regions. All of this shows that we have not succumbed to unrealistic ambitions that we would not have been able to meet without the help of others. [[13.10 hours]] If some countries want carbon neutrality at all costs, they must share the cost of all, because it is a common goal, and therefore the cost must be together no matter how easy or difficult it is to become carbon neutral. So, sum total, if someone blamed me for signing something, that's a lie. First, we fought that we didn't have an obligation to cut by 55 percent, but that we didn't actually have any commitment that it was an average. So if the Czech Republic is 42 percent and Denmark is 70, it's 110 and it's 55, right? And second of all, we've won huge money. And we fought these things mainly together with Poland. Poland as the most industrialized state of the European Union and the Czech Republic. And these are concrete results. And if anyone said we did something wrong, he lied. This July we first saw what Fit for 55 means. As a result, we can better imagine what each Evropan carbon neutrality will have to sacrifice. It is also becoming clear that finding a match may be more difficult than originally expected. First of all, it will be a significantly higher price of energy, to which the covideo crisis has also been signed, i.e. three, four times, and possibly more times higher, until it can invent a completely new, much more efficient and completely clean source. But, of course, after Russia's aggression into Ukraine, everything changed. Each of us has to figure out if we can afford something like this without major lifestyle adjustments. It can be very positive - we will save more, we will waste less, we will become more resilient. In addition, it can be expected that riding by cars will be much more expensive. Although I don't like to leave aside the fact where we actually want to take all the electricity, which is, of course, nonsense, the electric car that would replace 30, 40 to 50 or more percent of the internal combustion engines, but before there is any major battery revolution after the full introduction of the Fit for 55, we can basically forget about the nonstop crossing of Prague-Zadar. It is also not possible to hope for the return of cheap tickets and short trips to longer destinations. Traveling would become much longer and more expensive, and it would be more advantageous if someone had already decided to travel, to stay in a more distant place for a longer time. It doesn't even have to be bad if we accept it as a new standard. If there is a complete diversion from coal and natural gas will continue to be evaluated as fossil, unclean and therefore expensive, at least in our region we must count on extraordinary blackouts. But we don't want that. That would be a real disaster. Not often for an unbearable long time, but again something that we do not have to face today. In Germany it will occur from time to time, and if temperatures fall below minus 25 degrees, we may need to decide whether to drown or vacuum, as the inhabitants of Sweden do this winter. Yes, they reported to people in Sweden that they shouldn't vacuum because they don't have power. It's the crazy things in Europe! And this is the analysis that was written before Russia's aggression. And now we're somewhere else. And that European Council and European states should say that the Green Deal does not actually work anymore, that it needs to be changed. And if everyone says we want to get rid of Russian gas at all costs, then it's probably a different situation and then we need to rethink when coal ends. And that is what I think is on the table, and if no one at the European Council is saying that, then I think our Prime Minister should say that, because the situation is different, and of course we are saving the planet, but not enough to destroy ourselves. So the debate is still gonna be interesting, and I think the aggression has changed everything, and we actually need to talk about the new Green Deal and change the whole thing. I was talking about taxonomy. I think it was a great success for our government, and the Commission has published it with some delay, and the Prime Minister is declaring it as his work, which I am sorry, because that is not true. I did not expect Madam President to come until 14.30, but he is here, so I would like to address you now, Madam President, and, above all, I would like to invite you to apologise to me, because we already had one such confrontation. [[Richter.]] You accused me of how many of our fellow citizens died in the covid, which, of course, I'm sorry, and it wasn't fair. It was incorrect, and I reacted somehow. I think I didn't mean to offend you, nor am I saying that those, I don't know, four and a half thousand people who have died of covid since December 17th, since this government came in, that it was Prime Minister Fiala's fault. That's what you said at the time. And it was absurd. I don't know, I said it at the time, it's disgusting, and I don't see anything wrong with that. Then somebody was drawing crosses and everything was being done that Babiš was responsible for everything. When we compare the covid and the refugees, the fugitives register. The covid didn't register. We were saving the lives of our people. Yes, here come people who are afraid for their lives in Ukraine, but not in the Czech Republic. So that's the difference. The virus didn't go to the foreign police, and he didn't register. So that's what I really thought was a big setup at the time, but the pirát were still doing it, this line. And you just got here on Sunday, actually. Unfortunately, you lied brutally once again, when you said on TV that - you talked about gas - there is a real need to deliver the key fact that has not yet been mentioned, and that unfortunately in the interest of Andrej Babiš it was to preserve the dependence on Russian gas, because the key company of Agrofert, the German chemist SKW Piesteritz, is set to the gas Russian, not Norwegian. There was an interest in silence. Looks like it. And I don't understand why you're lying. You're originally a nonprofit activist, you've become a politician, you're a politician for a living, and I came from the business. And you don't know anything about the gas. And I don't know who wrote it, why you say it. You weren't here when I explained, and maybe you could learn that the Czech Republic doesn't have a chance to buy gas and distribute. Yes, Mr. Síkela has now bought gas for state material reserves. How it's going to distribute to whom he's gonna sell it again, to someone, to those distributors, and not to mention that maybe in the government you could think about cash flow, because the 8.5 billion that Mr. Stanjura miraculously found, you normally spend instead of telling the distributors: buy it, and if there's a price difference, we're going to pay you, and that's going to be in six months, so you wouldn't have to draw the money at all. But I understand that there is no economist in government who understands anything. So you're accusing me here that I'm interested in Russian gas, which is an absolute lie, it's nonsense. And I would like to inform you that you will finally learn that the gas is being purchased as gas. That means I had it pulled out here that Agrofert is buying natural gas exclusively from traders operating in individual countries with registrations in a given country. We don't determine the origin of the gas, nor do we know it. We pay for gas in local currencies or in euros. The price of gas is derived from the exchange price according to the index on Dutch TTF Gas. Agrofert Group sells its products in whose production it uses natural gas throughout the EU. Yes? So the German chemist... And I didn't even know. It's interesting that you know - but you don't know because it's a lie, because the chemist you were talking about has a four-year contract by 2025, and she's buying gas. Not Russian, Cathar. Gas. And there's some gas in the gas pipeline that the distributor's buying. The distributor, okay? [[13.20 hours]] So I'm calling you not to lie and you're simply not telling the truth. I understand that now in your government - you weren't at the beginning, I was repeating all your government's lies from debt, inflation, and so on, you probably got some kind of manual, I don't know, Bison & Rose if he wrote you some kind of lie guide, so don't repeat it because it's bullshit, it's nonsense. By the way, Slovak chemist Agrofertu buys gas from Slovak gas priemyslu. And it's just Russian gas because Ukraine doesn't have gas. And apparently, the main lobbyist, they said he's going to the government now, the worst prime minister in our country's history. So I'm gonna ask you not to lie, because that's a lie. I was the sovereign Czech Prime Minister, no one controlled me, no one talked to me, no other Prime Minister, no Polish Prime Minister influenced me. And the Czech Republic is unlucky that we sold everything. Yes, coupon, coupon, it's all gone. So the Czech Republic can't even buy gas. The fact that you've just turned it into state material reserves is good news. That's good news. I wonder what you're gonna do about it. You did it wrong in terms of cash flow and in terms of technology. We recommended you do this à la German model. So, Madam President, I would like you not to repeat this untruth because it is untrue. I was the sovereign Czech Prime Minister, I never lobbied for my company. Never. Show me an official who would say that. All these conflicts of interest are made up things. And it's just not true. But I understand you have everyone in the government in your description saying that we didn't come up with a pipeline. The Polák didn't want the pipeline. And most importantly, the pipeline here doesn't want anyone who's interested in distributing gas through Eustream. This is the pipeline that leads from Russia through Ukraine to us. It's a fight for money. So I'd like you to get a sense of this and not repeat these lies because they're not true. But I understand, and I've repeated it here x-times that your government's strategy is to lie, it's all Babiš's fault, and to take Babiš's job. So as marketing, it's a nice drawing, except for the data and the facts to disprove your untruths. So I'll be glad to close it like this, because if you repeat it again, I'd really have to take some legal action because it's not possible to blame me for this serious thing. It's not possible. It's unacceptable. I don't mind the fact that they lie about me from morning to night, but this is crucial. This is crucial because it affects me. I was an independent prime minister. People used to come here, yes, our allies, they said, "This is what you have to do, this, Dukovany." And I said to Mike Pompe, you want Dukovany, you give the best price. Give the best price. I have fought for Czech interests, always. And I can prove it. So thank you for not saying that again, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u15	Thank you for your contribution. And it is not just that I am now in charge, but with priority rights, Mr Radim Fiala, President of the SPD, then Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, and then I will ask my colleagues to replace me so that I can apply as well. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, but, Madam President, if you would like, I will, of course, release this place for you, if you would like to respond immediately, so that it is...? Yes? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u17	It's up to you to agree how properly you're all logged in with priority rights. Madam Vice-President will take my place, thank you. And let me just load, there was an apology, Mr David Šimek apologizes from 12.00 to 16.00 for work reasons today, so we can get this done. So, I'm handing over the meeting for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u18	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a point before the adoption of the agenda for today's meeting, and now Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Olga Richterová, will speak with priority. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u19	Thank you for the floor. I also thank my colleagues for being so helpful and for allowing me to come forward and respond immediately. It is, of course, a rather unusual situation where, in the role of the governing meeting, which gives the floor, I am directly addressed to respond. Anyway, about that thing. The point is that the facts that he published, for example, are revealed by the Uninfluenced server. cz. I've been commenting on these facts...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u20	I would ask for peace in the Chamber both on my right and on my left. I would ask all Members of Parliament if they want to work something out, to do it in the lobby. And at this point, Mrs. Vice-President, Mrs. Olga Richterová, is speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. So one more time. I have commented on the facts described in various media, among other things, in a medium called Influence. And I have commented that they are in sharp conflict with the statements made by representatives of Poland, former Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and what the former Prime Minister says, Mr Babiš, now. And this steep contradiction is something I interpreted as having an influence there, a business interest, a business interest in the fact that the particular chemist is set on the oil of Russia rather than Norwegian. And I want to point out that I have probably hit the black one, because the fact that it has caused a reaction today is proof that I have pointed out to this fact that those interests of business could have outweighed the interests of our Republic, quite correctly and quite appropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, too. I see President Andrej Babiš is applying for priority rights, but at this point Radim Fiala has priority rights. He prefers, okay. So with priority rights, the leader of the Andrej Babiš movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u23	I am sorry, Madam Vice-President, through Madam President, but you are talking to one another. Please, the puppet of Pokorný, who is running the Síkela today, the Sobotka, the man who was just a disgrace in the international field, who didn't speak any language, it was hell. And you're mixing Poland... I don't know, isn't it enough that it was clearly written in the media that the Polish party rejected it, that we dug up the money? But I wasn't talking about Polsko. I was talking about you saying that I was interested in maintaining an addiction to Russian gas. Those who control the gas pipe through Slovakia have an interest in Russian gas. They were interested. And the main lobbyist is Topolánek, who goes to the media and talks nonsense about a 1997 Norwegian contract that ended in the privatisation of Transgas. And you normally lied about saying - and we're here in the Czech Republic, we're not in Germany. And a German chemist buys gas from a VNG, that's a German company. And the German company will choose where it wants gas. So you don't understand, and I don't understand what you want to discuss with me. Doesn't affect? You mean the former editor-in-chief? The one who fundamentally damaged my son's health and abused it and broke into the house, secretly filming? I can't even express myself. And they said I should be calm. Because I would say something here that would be wrong. Doesn't a serious psychic who lies from morning to night affect them for you? Is that your source? [[13.30 hours]] You're talking Poland to Germany. I'm asking you not to say that I was interested in maintaining an addiction to Russian gas. Because no one knows what gas is in that pipe. You don't understand. You understand other things that I don't understand. I'm terribly sorry you didn't become Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I believe you have a good social sense. Pirates are extreme left, I'm left-wing populist, we'd have an excellent understanding. But don't talk about gas, you don't understand gas. [[Applause in the left side of the hall.]] You don't understand gas, so please don't discuss gas. I was looking forward to you being a secretary, and it didn't work out. Because there's a lot of work to do at the resort. I don't know what you're arguing about. Mr. Sobotka, I'll leave that to you without comment. That's what articles are for. Do you even know who was supposed to build that pipe? NET4GAS, it's a private company. And what were they supposed to build when the Polák didn't want it? So it's all made-up stuff. But you're talking about Poland, and I'm talking about Germany. And you're saying I was interested in Russian gas. It's nonsense. It's nonsense, I refuse. And I don't know if there's any point in continuing this here. You read it on TV, you read something from your phone, so you don't understand it, so it's hard. It's like me and Pirk are debating a heart surgery that I don't understand. I'd ask you to let it go, because you just don't know what's going on. The gas in the pipe can't be distinguished. When someone buys gas, they buy gas. And whoever distributes it probably buys it from manufacturers, so he knows what kind of gas it is. So that's what this is about. And you're talking about the cart, I'm talking about the goat. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. Now Radim Fiala is logged in with priority rights, then me. We both prefer Vice-President Olza Richterová. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u25	Once again, I thank my duly registered colleagues with priority rights for the opportunity to respond. I believe that I am not talking about the vehicle, but I am talking about the previous government, which has unfortunately not reduced our almost exclusive dependence on Russian gas, even if it could. She had the opportunity from the previous government of Bohuslav Sobotka, in which the current Member Mr Babiš sat as Minister of Finance. And now it's important. I am a member of the Pirates Party, who has been very concerned about the awareness of the security risks that would bring the Russian Federation to the completion of Dukovan, for example. We pointed out that the state's security infrastructure is something that we need to look forward to decades. It is simply a key interest of our country not to be dependent on a power that is clearly hostile and acting in an unpredictable way. And that is why I would also like to point out that there are great uncertainties here, when actually former Prime Minister Sobotka clearly points out that he wanted to reduce this dangerous dependence on Russian gas, that he had foreseen it, and that is precisely the substance of the matter to the pipeline through Poland, because it would allow gas from Norway to lead. That's the essence I want to highlight. And, of course, there is a need to realise that this is an extremely political issue, because European subsidies were foreseen there, and I stressed that for such an important thing as the planned new pipeline, the European Commission would in no way have ruled out this request without any internal consultation with the Czech Government. So Mr Sobotka was quoted as saying, "I'm afraid the government of Andrej Babiš has abandoned it." Forget what? To a fundamental reduction in our infrastructure dependence on Russian gas. And that's what the former government agent for the core, Mr. Jaroslav Míl, said. So unfortunately, he pointed out that he repeatedly drew attention to the importance of the construction of these pipelines, i.e. through Poland allowing the Norwegian gas, but - and I quote now - I did not feel interested by Mr. former Prime Minister Babiš, Mr. Havlíček. Others, trade, political, probably prevailed over security-energy arguments. And in this political debate, we are now. I'm behind the pirát, I'm behind the democratic government, the five-calice that wants to reduce dependence on Russia, and that's why we're drawing attention to that. This addiction could already be reduced. Experts have warned about this, the politicians from the past years have discussed it, and I have therefore said, Mr Babiš, that your former government has silenced this possibility and that it is possible - yes, through Madam President - that it is possible that the interest of setting the important chemical from Agrofert, the SKW Piesteritz chemical plant, which is set up for Russian gas may have been involved. [[Comments in the left side of the hall: Through the President!]] I understand you don't like me saying it like that, but we all know the Czech saying about the run-of-the-mouse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u26	Thank you, too. I see that, once again, with priority rights, Andrej Babiš is reporting. I'm just checking - Radim Fiala will be released with priority rights. Mr. Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u27	Mrs Richterová says that German chemist buying Russian gas - which is a lie - threatens the dependence of the Czech Republic on gas. It's total nonsense. But think about what you're talking about. It's a completely different situation. And I would really like to ask that where were we supposed to reduce the addiction, then? Do we have a state gas company or a refinery? We don't have anything. You guys are out of your mind. You don't understand. You don't understand. You're saying we should have reduced addiction. But we don't have anything. Because within the coupon and before that everything went away. So stop lying about it. Sobotka, yes, he signed some memorandum, and the Polák didn't want it. The Polák didn't want it. And it was supposed to be built by a private company. So I don't know, we can argue here. Well, Mr. Míl, of course, we can talk about why Mr. Míl doesn't like us. So, of course, if anybody wanted, I don't know, the conditions they wanted from us, so obviously we told him that we thanked him that we didn't have the money for that. So you pick some people, so Sobotka, I've already commented on that, so it's all nonsense. The Czech Republic, the Czech Government, you have where influence? Then go after the Innogs. Go to Innogs and tell Orbán not to buy Russian gas. Well, I'm curious about you. You're out of line, you don't understand. And they're giving you something, and you're reading something here, so it's a tough debate, because your absurdities, you can't even answer that. I repeat: gas is being purchased! Nobody buys Russian gas. Gas is being bought. It's the same. Qatari, LNG, Norwegian, Russian. It's the same. Contractions are for gas. On the gas. Not Russian gas. You have no influence on the purchase of gas in the Czech Republic. You have no influence! And if you want to ban Russian gas distributors, fine. But then you set up hundreds of billions that they'll lose to be compensated for. I mean, that's a pointless debate. You don't understand that the Czech Republic has nothing anymore, that you have no influence because you don't have those companies, you don't have refineries, you don't have water, you don't have gas? And in CEZ? So put Beneš on the paper to end the contract with Gazprom, which will reach the end of the year. Sign that he's going to lose 1.5 billion. Well, I'm curious about you. So you're talking nonsense, you're out of line. Someone's dictating something to you, and now you're gonna read it from your phone again. Because you don't understand what's going on. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] Well, of course, he's got it all set up, he's gonna read it like he's on TV again. So it's like hell to debate this. Let Havlíček say it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u28	This was with priority the President of the ANO movement. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Karel Havlíček and then we prefer Vice-President Olza Richterová. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Have a good day again. Madam Vice-President, just in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u30	Through Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u31	That is true, I am sorry, through Madam President. In 2016, even during the reign of Bohuslav Sobotka, when the preparation of the STORK II project was completed, which worked for several years among others, and prepared it mainly by the Polish party and the Czech party, so the Polish party after the European Commission agreed to the project and the money was prepared for it... For the record, at that time, the European Commission had €70 million prepared for all energy projects, pipelines, and it put $63 million on this project. So it was quite a success back then, everyone felt good about it, except for one problem. Poland refused at the moment it was agreed. It was a big problem back then. It was still in the government, I say again, Bohuslav Sobotka. It was a big problem, it was a diplomatic feud. The Polák kept their hands off it. We can talk about why the Polák kept their hands off it. The most likely reason, which is nowhere on paper, but was quite clear in the galleys, was the construction of Nord Stream 2. At that time Nord Stream 2 was already being built, which meant another 55 billion m3. The Polák, to put it simply, have calculated that the Stork II pipeline would not be effective, and Russia's gas could probably also be compressed there. So the Polák said no and there was a problem. The first possible recovery date was 2019, but it had one condition, and that is that the European Commission would include this pipeline after the debacle that came up, once again on the so-called strategic priority project list. As early as 2016, the European Commission was clearly saying in the galleys: we will not put this in there for you, because at that moment, when you rejected it, we do not see why to do it. Nevertheless, the Czech Republic supported this project again at the moment when it was included on the list. Among other things, including the BACI project - this is the southern part - which would be Russian gas, but it would be there, as they say, bypass, with the fact that it would not go through Slovakia. At the time, we supported it despite Slovakia's harsh opposition to it. And not just Slovakia. At that time Mirek Topolánek, as manager or former manager, flew Eustream from place to place and, of course, lobbied extremely to prevent it from happening with the BAC gas pipeline in Austria so that we would remain dependent on the Slovak gas. Well, logically, because he was engaged in the company that had the pipe there. Despite all this we went against Slovakia, we supported it and the European Commission did not approve both the projects - both Stork and BACI - at the time. By not approving them, funding was lost, they weren't on that list, and at that point, the project was definitely down. This is a simple whole story. That's all, there's nothing less behind it. The opposite is true. We did not succumb to those lobbyists, aka Mirek Topolánek, in order to support these projects, especially the Russian gas. Slovakia was pretty angry with us back then. I also discussed this with the Minister of Economics, who logically wanted Slovak pipes to be used again. However, in the end it didn't work out, there was a Slovak pipe. At that time NET4GAS, who was building the Moravia pipeline, which was supposed to connect with that Stork, and who, by letter, called on the Polish party to start preparing the project and construction, was ready to immediately follow up and complete it. The moment there is no money and especially when there are no pipes, simply put, from Poland to the Czech Republic, it is not possible to build. So the story is very simple and the Czech party naturally supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u32	I also thank the Vice-President and now, with the priority right, Vice-President Olga Richterová. The chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala will be ready. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u33	Thank you very much. I'm gonna be really, really brief. I believe that only two factual points need to be recalled in relation to the negotiations on the agenda. The fact that this thing can really be quite simple, but we as ordinary citizens or political opponents of Andrej Babiš will not find that out. It's just that this major firm, SKW Piesteritz, is very important for the whole Agrofert holding and for its profits, this chemist is just primarily set on Russian gas. About what? Because Norwegian has less methane. What's important is that it reduces efficiency when it changes the composition of the gas, the direct composition. So on this point, I want to show that it can really be so simple that these interests played a role in making that decision. Otherwise, of course, I tried to stress that we, as the Government of the Czech Republic, are trying to ensure the possibility of alternative gas supplies from Norway. That is why Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Poland have dealt with Poland because of the possibility of this easier infrastructure link. I would point out that, according to preliminary information, it is possible to provide about a quarter of domestic winter consumption from Norway. So what is important is another joint action at European Union level. Then it is important that there is no doubt that business interests do not enter into the political decision-making, the decision-making of our country's affairs and our national security. That is why it is so important that, among other things, at this meeting, we enforce an enforceable functional version of the conflict of interest law and finally prevent personal business interests of who is supposed to represent all of us in defending our country. That's the way it was in the past, and it's not gonna be like that anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I see now that the President of the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš, is claiming priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u35	I don't know, I feel like I'm in a madhouse. [[A round of applause and laughter for members of the ANO movement.]] Can we agree that Piesteritz is in Germany? Do you agree, Madam Vice-President? Is Piesteritz in Germany? He's in Germany, isn't he? We are here in Bohemia. You're talking about gas to German chemist and here you're talking about dependence on Russian gas of the Czech Republic. I don't know, we're like little kids here. There are no children here, they are adult ladies, so hopefully they will understand that Germany is Germany and the Czech Republic is Czech. I don't know, do you understand what I'm saying is that a German chemist buys gas in Germany? Madam Vice-President is lying. And whoever's texting her -- she's still reading it from the phone, because of course she doesn't understand -- she's lying. Again, the gas is bought as gas, and the German chemist doesn't know what kind of gas she's getting. She doesn't care. She's got gas, and she's delivering it to VNG. Who's VNG? VNG is Handel & Vertrieb, which belongs to EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg. It is listed on the stock exchange and owns the shares of the German Federal Republic. So you're actually saying, well, the bad Němec are feeding Russian gas to their company. That's a lie. Now, just remember what nonsense you're talking about. What methane? Who's texting you this crap? That's nonsense. Gas is bought as gas. So I had the VNG buy the gas today, and he's got two long-term contracts. One with Norsko. You're saying you can get Norwegian gas in here. I mean, that's it. I don't know how to explain it anymore. So they have Norway, they buy it first and foremost from Norway and the USA. Are you happy? I hope you're happy. Excellent. And from Russia, only when they're not enough, they buy. And they decide, the VNG, the company that belongs to the de facto German state. So I don't know how to explain it anymore. You're mixing that we were supposed to reduce dependence on Russian gas. How were we supposed to do that? And you argue with a German chemist. Well, that's total bullshit, total nonsense. I beg you, stop it now. I don't know who's writing it anymore, you're reading it, you don't understand. It's not like that. It's not like that. And say, I don't know, Mr. Prime Minister, if he talks to the Slovak Prime Minister, let him close the pipe from Ukraine and Russia. Yeah? That's the SPP to shut it down when you're pushing it to be gas-free. I wonder what the Slovák will say. [[13.50 hours]] And you still don't understand that the Czech state has nothing, because it's all... Excuse me? [[He responds to a diaper reminder.]] Yeah, Prime Minister, well, the Prime Minister should know who's selling gas. I don't know, 40 percent of the gas sells Innogs. Innogy belongs to the evil Orbán, Madam Vice-President, what a scandal, huh? Who took the liberty here, so... [[He's laughing.]] So our ODS colleagues sold everything instead of going to Singapore and asked if it was better to keep it in state hands instead of a coupon? That's how RWE sold it. And Innogy has 40 percent of the gas market in the Czech Republic. Hungarian state, Viktor Orbán. And 20 percent has CEZ. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u36	Please, you need to talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u37	You need my advice, because you don't understand it either, Mr. Ambassador. You understand something else. [[President Richter: By me, please.]] Yeah, through you, sure. So I don't know what you're dealing with here. Then make sure the Czech Republic is independent of Russian gas. Make it happen. It's nonsense. It's nonsense. Everything sold out. And you were there, too, on your side. You're the political cartel, too. So I don't know how to explain it anymore. It's a lie. Madam Vice-President here is mixing apples with pears. Poland - Havlíček explained it. And once again, the gas is purchased as gas. And it's up to whoever's buying it. And that's definitely not the chemist. Okay, enough with the lies, 'cause it's really not worth discussing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u38	And it's time to thank you for the contribution and give the floor to another registered with priority rights and that's the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, so it was a short excursion between gas pipes and partly also between food, pears with apples and so on. So let's get back to today's meeting. In the beginning, I would like to pause on why we are actually negotiating for an emergency meeting and why there are so many things that the five-police government has not yet managed to enforce, because I believe that we have little time in the Chamber of Deputies. The government coalition has cut off the House's agenda, and I don't think they have enough time left for us to normally discuss a lot of topics that society today and that life will bring to light. We'd need more time for that. The leadership of the Chamber of Deputies has, by decision, reduced the number of House meetings significantly. The schedule of the Chamber of Deputies' meetings was smashed for 20 years. Different weeks have gone completely away. If you remember, variable weeks were full of House meetings in the last parliamentary term, so we had enough time to discuss everything. And it was also seen in the number of passed laws for the previous term. I think that although I was part of the opposition, there was quite a lot. And I'm comparing it to this electoral period where we're actually sitting here, we don't have variable weeks. And if you take it that way, actually, in one semester, and that's interesting information, in one semester, by falling out of variable weeks, we've reduced the House's negotiations by one month, which means that the House's negotiations will be reduced by two months in a whole year. That's a lot, and that's why we have to meet at extraordinary meetings now and probably by more and more, so we're going to meet. And it is not only because we have limited the House's meeting by a variable week, but it is also because the time for the House's meeting has been reduced by five hours, when the government actually has to act on Wednesday. So on Wednesday, that means tomorrow, when it's a normal House week, we're actually only acting until 2:00. If you remember, it's... what I remember, and maybe even Marek Benda, from the '90s, it was until 7:00. And now the government is acting. The government acted in different ways. But take note that the government mostly acted on Monday, when Members have an obligation to sit in their offices in the regions. And actually, MEPs do their job in the regions every Monday, and the government has all Monday to act. And I think that Monday is also the smartest day, the smartest day to negotiate, because most of the meetings in companies, schools, various other institutions, state companies, offices, those meetings are usually done on Monday, because there's a whole week's schedule to be made. What's going to happen, the tasks you have to discuss, they're usually done on Monday. But this government is meeting on Wednesday. I wouldn't mind everyone meeting whenever they want. I'm just pointing out that there's been another five hours of our time cut. After all, I noticed for the first time that, and I don't want to defend Babišův's government, but the Prime Minister, Mr Babiš, probably couldn't sleep, so sometimes Babišův's government has been meeting since 6:00 a.m. That was so interesting. But after all, let everyone meet whenever he wants. But this government is taking another five hours from our time. I must continue to note for people who do not know this, so the Office of the Government is less than a kilometer away from the Chamber of Deputies, so I think it isn't so far away that the government can sit on various occasions or at some other time, because it is actually a piece. That was for the hearing. By making it much more difficult for us, for the opposition, as there has been a abolition of variable weeks, so of course there has also been an abolition of interpellation by these variable weeks. In variable weeks the House and the opposition acted normally, we had a much greater opportunity to question the Prime Minister. It's a fact that the Prime Minister was here at the last interview, but he hadn't been here for a month before, because he's going to Brussels, something happens, he had a covid before and so on. So even by taking away the variable week, to us, the opposition, it took away the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister and the ministers about the problems that bothers Czech citizens and which bother them. And, of course, we want that, because that opportunity to officially ask the government, the Prime Minister is extremely important to any opposition in the world. And the Prime Minister should answer, so should the ministers. I want to get back to what the Speaker of the House said that the opposition should sit in a corner, shuffle their feet and keep quiet. So by shortening our variable week, we've lost our interpelation, so they're actually filling that password. I would strongly oppose this because it is the right of the opposition in the democratic world. They are often called democratic blocs and democratic parties, so I would like the government and the five-wheelers to fill it up and let the opposition democratically ask questions about the problems that plague citizens and to allow us to simply carry out the interpelations. The topics the government was supposed to deal with, but it doesn't deal with, are getting more and more. Similarly, the Chamber of Deputies could address them, whether it is a serious energy crisis or an emerging food crisis, which is not yet very much talked about and talked about, but, of course, the food crisis will be the direct successor of the energy crisis. But we've seen it on public television as food prices go up and go up. [[14.00 hours]] We, as the SPD, drew attention to this last year and we wanted to address it because - I am going to devote a little more to the food crisis in my speech today than it would have been, but it is because it is waiting for us, and the government should start dealing with these things now. The same way she should start dealing with things that concern increasing energy prices, increasing fuel prices, increasing food prices and others, so I feel that basically what we are looking at in the Czech Republic is meant to be addressed, because in all segments of the economy, be it inflation, the state budget, the economy, there is some problem that should be addressed. And if the problems don't start to work out, it just bubbles up in big trouble -- I don't know any writing words to replace the word "bummer," but it ends in big trouble -- and unfortunately, the government doesn't solve anything. The government refuses to impose restrictions or directly prohibit exports of wheat, for example, one of the few commodities in which the Czech Republic is still self-sufficient. Unfortunately, this year only on paper, because of course the price of wheat goes exponentially up and is already sold out. It has been sold out for several years in advance because, of course, traders want to buy it at the best prices and prices are rising. That means whoever buys first buys at a better price. What's that gonna mean? Well, it's gonna mean we're gonna get the bake price up. Even some analysts estimate that bread will cost CZK 60 over time, and the government of the ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates leave it absolutely calm. It makes no sense at all why this government does not address the further growing poverty of the broad strata of the Czech population. A small libation of the decline in fuel prices by a crown of fifty - and I would like to return to that - is quite ridiculous. It just doesn't help at all. It's just a gesture to make it look like the government's doing something. Imagine how it works, the price of a barrel of oil changes in world markets every day. The volatility is so high that the barrel of the crown of 50 can fall tomorrow or rise. This means that ordinary Čech, a common citizen who comes to a gas station, will not feel at all that the government has reduced his excise duty on fuel by a crown of fifty, and it may not even get there to the customer, because part of the refinery, part of the petrol station and twenty-year-olds can keep it from the final consumer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u40	I'm sorry, I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the O.R., there's a lot of noise. Please transfer the discussions to the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u41	That means, if you're asking me how I would have imagined helping the government with, for example, fuel, it's putting fuel prices on the table or reducing VAT, something like the Polák did. When you come to Poland to refuel fuel, you gas 11 crowns less. And not by a crown - 11 crowns less. None of you will feel that crown. If I ask you if you were tanking for 42, 43 or 44 yesterday, none of you will know, no one will remember. But if you were tanking for 33, then suddenly you'd all remember it. This means that this is the help I would expect from the government to Czech citizens. That would be fuel. It is unbelievable that the government still has not submitted a state budget adjustment to the Chamber of Deputies, although it is clear to all of us that in the approved budget it was not intended at all for the crisis situation associated with the payment of large and numerous unlimited social benefits to refugees from Ukraine. Clearly, the current budget was not counting on it. Yeah, that's just the way it is. It would therefore be appropriate to bring the state budget back to the House in order to find out at all what chapters these giant benefits are financed from and how this will be in the future, as well as to explain how, in such a case, the unlimited open cash registers for newcomers intend to ensure what they are obliged to do for Czech citizens according to Czech laws. Or are they already some second-class citizens who have to tighten their belts, eat less, drown less, almost not drive around and pay for all the government's ideas? All I'm saying is that in the past, we've heard from the Pirát that we need to pull the heater down to 18 degrees, buy two more sweaters, tighten our belts, make it stick. But how are we supposed to eat if the bread costs 60 kroner and 100 kroner in a minute? How are we gonna do that, these things? We have to eat. So I would have thought that before we bought two sweaters and downloaded the heater to 18 degrees, that we could start dealing with it, that we could start with energy prices, and the price of everything else depends on energy prices, whether you bake bread, build a house, or buy a car, you need to have the cheapest energy possible. So, of course, I wouldn't tease my belts, but I would be looking for a solution. This is a far more meaningful path than what the government is proposing. That means the government says we're not gonna do anything, you guys tighten your belts and we'll just get through it somehow. And if we happen to want to complain on social networks, for example, there is already a strong warning from the Attorney General supported by the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, so that people do not complain much and look for connections, otherwise the government guarantee will turn them into Quaverators and Disinformers. And I always remember a good soldier named Josef Švejk and informants and disinformers on that occasion, I always thought about it - I have to tell you - he watched the movie, he loved Christmas, and I wondered how ridiculous it was, how ridiculous it was, and I never thought we'd be sitting in a similar situation, and that we'd be informants, disinformers, and I wouldn't want to talk about, for example, how the station is taking pictures, so they wouldn't lock me up as soon as I got out of this House. And not to try to remind you that Hungary, for example, has the gas cheaper, you could get into the latest program of Defense Ukraine, defending the Czech Republic, announced by the Office of the Government. You might think a thoughtful fellow citizen would rat you out like he did communism. But the Prime Minister says we don't have any censorship here. Well, I'll tell you in a minute we do. Then I don't know what it is to delete posts on different servers when you write something and that server deletes them, so they don't get in trouble, or something that's obviously not supposed to be in the media. And if you express an opinion there that is not majority, as the government is doing all right, you can expect a subpoena to the police to give an explanation. That's the first step. I mean - well, it can happen to me too, but now it can't, because even though you don't have censorship here, I have so limited Facebook that although I put in a few posts every day or photos or some ideas, I'm losing followers on Facebook - not that anyone would care, but because it's so scrambled and so censored that the idea really only gets to a few other people and it doesn't get to the mime that group of followers or friends I already have on Facebook. That's obvious simply, and I think it's clear censorship. And if I'm right, and I'm right about this, censorship is forbidden by the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Just censor... Censorship is forbidden. [[14.10 hours]] Social media - this is where it usually works. Usually, intimidation works. You go to the police where you explain what you meant, what you meant. And God forbid, when you're a member of a political party like the SPD, you need to be sentenced right away to make sure you don't accidentally think of saying anything else you don't have to say that could hurt the government. But I will return to the citizens. The government coalition has no desire to care for citizens, as we see from the fact that it does not actually solve anything - neither fuel, nor energy, nor food. After all, the President of the House, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, told Prima on TV that the government is not for all people here. But it collects money from people on taxes, of course, and more and more, following rising energy prices, and thus increasing VAT collection from them. The government doesn't mind increasing spending of both individuals and families. And if you complain about it, you can still be attracted to it. The government coalition has created enough tools for this, and there's always a reason. After all, we have a lot of nonprofits to watch it, whether it's social media or whatever you say or write, and then, of course, you report it, because it has to be reported, and you go to the police. But, of course, we don't have censorship here. The biggest problem that the government and, if necessary, the Chamber of Deputies have to address is the energy crisis. It starts and supports the unprecedented inflation that we are experiencing in the Czech Republic, which is now about 13 percent and is still on an upward trend. It's just unbelievable. And it is because, of course, expectations are that the government will do nothing, that it will not limit energy prices, it will not limit fuel prices or food prices, and that will, of course, push inflation up all the time. But the surrounding states aren't that bad. Consider France, for example. France has inflation of about 5%. Hungary 8 to 9 %. And Hungary is a completely comparable state both by area, geographical location and population. They just have a government that really deals with these problems. And I'm pointing out where I'm going. I say that in the media. And the government isn't doing anything. I'm going to repeat that sentence again: if the government doesn't do anything, problems will pile up and end up in a huge mess. There's only one possibility in me that the government doesn't really know what to do with it. As far as overpriced energy is concerned, these are far from being caused only by the war in Ukraine, for which the government is constantly making excuses. First she made excuses at Babiš, then she made excuses at Putin. But remember, before the conflict in Ukraine, energy was growing incredibly. And they grew on the basis of a programme called Green Deal, which was declared by the European Union, which means closing coal power plants, closing in Germany and Sweden and in other countries as well as nuclear power plants. And that, of course, drives the price of energy in the markets, because everyone suspects that it will be scarce. Last year, in winter - not this winter, what it was, but the year before - they shut down a nuclear power plant in Sweden, and the announcer on television in Sweden warned the housewives not to vacuum and wash when the temperature drops below minus 20 degrees, because there could be a lack of energy. That's just the problem. And energy grew before the war in Ukraine. But what's even more of a problem than Green Deal, it's emissions trading. Based on research, surveys, I call it doing business because it's nothing else, trading emission allowances means increasing energy prices by up to 50 percent. 50 percent of the energy prices are actually in those emission permits. Originally a good moment, a good idea that we're going to do the environment, so it's become business and business. And emission allowances are purchased, for example, by U.S. pension funds that have nothing to do with the environment and are driving allowances up. Then you have a sugar factory in Moravia, one of the last ones that the European Union hasn't destroyed and destroyed yet and built in France, for example, as many sugar factories in Moravia have done, and actually exported labor, sugar quotas, sugar trade exported from the Czech Republic, from Moravia exported to France quite simply. It cost a few billion euros, but that is what the European Union printed, so it didn't really cost her anything. And the last sugar factory that stayed there would make some profit, and it would burn the whole profit instead of putting it into investment and something to modernize, so it would burn it for emission allowances so that it could even make the sugar so that it could smoke from the chimney, even though it has the latest and most modern filters. They're just dropping CO2. That's also a big lie to the current West as a subject, the climate. CO2 is naturally in the air, in nature. It's just a lie. It is a substitute problem for climate scientists who do studies for the money of the European Union and various others and have to find a problem with CO2. But he's not really there. Earth is round. We have 12 percent CO2. We're gonna make a commitment that we're not gonna release anything, but it's gonna come down here anyway, because China and India are gonna smoke chimneys like Nationals, and we're not gonna help it. But we're gonna have a good feeling here and we're gonna fight CO2 instead of fighting for a good life for Czech citizens, for people, so we're gonna deal with this nonsense. So it was inflation. As far as overpriced energy is concerned, as I said before, it's not just the war in Ukraine, it's Green Deal, it's emission allowances. And the SPD says that our duty - not even for the government to do so - is to get out of the Czech Republic's emission allowance trading system. Otherwise, we'll just destroy the industry. Based on energy prices, we destroy those companies that produce and smoke from the chimney, even though they have the latest filters. It's just nonsense. It has nothing to do with the environment. We feed speculators and on the basis of profits that go into speculators and speculators in their pockets, we destroy Czech industry and Czech companies. And I'm against it. And the government should take that into account and start dealing with it. But since the European Union does not want it and commands us to do so, this government, which has no strength - I wanted to say another word - does not have the strength to do so, of course it will rather go against Czech companies, Czech economy, Czech economy and Czech citizens than against von der Leyenová and the European Union. As Vladimír Štěpán, one of the Czech energy commodity trade experts, says, the Czech Republic really needs low energy prices because our industry has low added value and is vitally dependent on low energy input prices, because otherwise it loses competitiveness. [[14.20 hours]] We're just gonna get into a recession, we're gonna get into huge problems in the industry, if we're gonna buy gas here that's gonna cost five times more. It's a political decision that we don't depend on someone, but we're gonna kill ourselves live. But that's okay! As long as we don't buy the gas from the Rus and we don't have any contacts, no political contacts with Russia when we heard here a minute ago in that field trip that gas was about gas being gas and that it's mixed in different ways. But that's irrelevant. Of course, be against that Putin guy. And it doesn't matter if we destroy our industry, but especially if we don't buy it from the Rus. According to him, the Czech Republic is the only country in Central Europe that does not have a long-term contract for the purchase of natural gas. She probably had it before. Quote: In privatization - and this is what we talked about here a moment ago with Mr. Exministry Havlíček and Mr. Expremiere Babiš - she inherited it in privatization, this contract, RWE, which practically disposed of it, because instead of this cheap gas, she preferred the link to the stock exchange. So the result is that today we don't buy gas for 6 crowns just like the Němec, or those German companies that buy gas, but for 25 crowns on the stock market, Vladimír Štěpán said. I have one more comment on energy. Of course, we're gonna make it, and I've got it here somewhere, we're gonna make it quite cheap, and then we're gonna send it to two stock exchanges. One on the commodity exchange in Leipzig and the other on the exchange in Prague, where the price of energy for the Czech Republic is determined de facto. All of this means we're going to make that energy quite cheaply, but we're buying it back, or we're going to set it quite expensive. And there's another option called the social tariff. These were two branches where energy is actually sold and purchased, and another branch is called - which does not exist - is called a social tariff. And it can be used temporarily that ČEZ, a semi-state company, will commit itself to providing Czech companies and Czech citizens, both natural and legal persons, with a price of energy. There is one catch, of course, and the hook is another shareholder who is part of ČEZ. To abide by the law, they'd have to compensate for the money. But maybe you'll ask, "Where do we get it?" I think it's very simple at the moment. CEZ will achieve one of the best economic results thanks to a lot of things, thanks to the price of energy and so on, and I think it will need to be 50 billion this year. All we have to do is take 30 billion of it and put it on the social tariff and compensate it. The state budget isn't gonna cost anything, but we're gonna help these people. But those people in just six months, when they're going to pay their mortgages, they won't have a fixation, they'll pay their energy, they'll pay their food prices, they'll just pay all their inputs, all their expenses will increase several times, so they won't have it. And it's one of the other things the government doesn't solve, and I'm repeatedly pointing out that it's just gonna be a big problem in a few months. And I say, government, the solution is called a social tariff. And I hope you'll at least talk about it. Furthermore, Mr. Štěpán adds that the price of gas on the stock market is unpredictable, and that is why people and companies are suddenly getting high invoices. But not all of them yet, because some entities have long-term contracts for fixed price. Some citizens are lucky. However, after their end, this problem will affect everyone. And that's the time I'm pointing out, and I'm saying that the solution is called a social tariff. So not this year, but in the next year, or in 2024, the effects of increased energy prices will be the most sensitive. I'm just trying to figure out what it might look like. I'm not saying it's gonna look like it, but it's supposed to just turn out like this. For apartment 3+1 will no longer be paid for heating 20,000, will not pay 40,000 as now, but it can also be 60,000, warned Vladimír Štěpán and added that for electricity it will be even worse. Former vice-chairman of the Energy Regulatory Office, energy expert Ivan Noveský, says that nuclear electricity is produced in the Czech Republic - and now listen - for 25 cents per kilowatt hour, from coal even for 15 cents, but on the Leipzig Stock Exchange the price will then rise up to 8 kroner per kilowatt hour. So an increase of almost 4,000 percent. So just so you know, what's the difference between when we make it, when we make it in the power plants that we've completely paid for, whether it's Dukovany, Temelín, or more, and we sell it and feed it to speculators, and we put $7.50 in their pockets for a kilowatt hour, whether it's legal persons, funds or more. The solution, I repeat again, is called the social tariff. This is Czech electricity produced from Czech sources and consumed on Czech territory, but sold at German prices from the Leipzig Stock Exchange. And, by the way, it is one of the main reasons for the current high inflation. Again, the government doesn't deal with it, it says buy two sweaters, pull the heater down to 18 degrees. Similar is the situation with gas, which is physically Russian in the Czech Republic, but purchased through Western German traders who are taking it away from Gazprom. According to Vladimír Štěpán, the gas from Gazprom buys Western Europe, which fills its reservoirs, and there is nothing left in the Czech Republic. So the whole famous European Union with a European solution is going pretty well. It's just clear, and I point it out all the time. Everyone's shirt is closer than a coat. Do you think that if you rent part of the magazine in Poland, that some gas will come to you? Well, even if you rent it and the Polák have it and they need it, they won't send it to you! Just like that - remember? - as the Němec stopped our trucks with cloaks at the border and said, "Get back!" How to the Czech Republic? We're short on our own! Closer shirt than coat. So we need to protect national interests, and that is what the government should do at this point. Vladimír Štěpán further states that the difference between gas prices in Slovakia and the Czech Republic is 100 per cent of the price. Imagine that! That is, the Slovák pay twice as much for gas because they have a long-term contract held by a state gas supplier. Of course, he has a long-term contract for Hungary. But nobody here just cares. Even the gas we buy from the Němec, from German private companies, so they buy it for 6 crowns and sell it to us for 27 crowns. Just so you know what big business this is. And it never bothered Czech governments. Everything was just fine. According to Vladimír Štěpán, there are more ways to make natural gas cheaper again. For example, address German traders who take gas cheaply to place it on a stock exchange where Gazprom no longer supplies. As regards alternatives: Norwegian gas is used by Němec, liquefied gas, so-called LNG, has no way of leading to the Czech Republic. And what the Czech government offers as alternatives is, according to him, to cry. Heat pumps - I have now personally witnessed this on Prima on Sunday, where actually all the coalitionists sitting there with me agreed that the solution is heat pumps. Well, that was totally ridiculous, because we need to deal mainly with industry. When it stops, there will be huge economic problems, unemployment, and more. And those really don't solve the heat pumps. Heat pumps are expensive, expensive and, above all, there is no capacity to build them. Even though we have big subsidies for individuals, there's just no one to build it now. And solar energy works at least in winter, when it is the most necessary. It just doesn't shine as much as we need in the Czech Republic in winter. [[14.30 hours]] So it was for the power supply. And once again, energy is both alpha and omega. It is the primary problem of inflation. On the basis of energy, prices of everything will rise, especially Czech households, and it is simply a big problem that the government does not solve. I'm gonna say this for the third and last time, solve it, or it's gonna end in a big mess. And now what I announced right from the start, that I would like to address the food problem. Nobody's talking about it today. We don't talk about the food problem today, but it's the problem that's on the shovel that's going on, but maybe, I don't know if the reporters want to talk about it so they don't compromise the government, the mainstream media, because they know it's another mess. I don't know why. One evening I saw that Czech television said pork prices were rising. But I think all the food prices are going to rise and they're going to rise. So I'd like to ask the press to just look into it, because that's the problem. And it's connected to the energy problem, as I've already said. All the mistakes of past governments and errors in the excessive retreating of the European Union are just intersecting into this area, and there are already clear errors of the five-calice government. I just want to say that at the moment, when food is not going to be expensive - not only will it be expensive, but they will not, I repeat, they will not be food, you will want to buy it, but they will not - the only way to do something about it, and that should have been done yesterday, perhaps a year ago, is to abandon the European Union's quotas and to intensify agriculture. Intensify - what does that mean? Start growing more, blow off rape and tanning. Start growing more, for example, wheat, cereals and other agricultural crops and raising livestock, keeping livestock. And of course give Czech farmers such subsidies, at least the same as they have in the West and North Polák, to simply be competitive Czech farmers. Ask them, they'll tell you how much they're losing on one cattle unit or one pig. They're losing a thousand crowns today. How many thousands of crowns are lost on one pig in production. Zdeněk Jandejsek, a member of the Board of Directors of the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, points out - I quote, of course, all those people who say that so that journalists do not say that we are making up things that are not true here. I just want it to be desourced, not that I'm making excuses for them, that someone said something, but then the press or the government will say, "You made something up, Mr. Fiala, you made it up, you sucked it out of your finger." So I'm just quoting where I keep the source so we know where I got it. So Zdeněk Jandejsek: The solution is only systemic measures consisting in the approval of the above mentioned law on significant market power according to the Francouz, Ital and others. This is a significant change in the law, so we will see if the government coalition has the strength to stand up to a significant market power for the benefit of Czech citizens and Czech farmers. The real solutions will only bring the following steps: Immediately support those who produce and are able to increase the production of quality and affordable food, it does not matter if they are big, small or medium, just anyone who is able to produce. Immediately abolish nonsensical support for extensive productions, which, under the guise of organic agriculture and nature conservation, spend resources that do not bring anything to the population or nature. I think that's clear, that's the intensity I was talking about. The current routing of resources into organic production brings a circa of 1,5 per cent of the land under the ecological regime. A truly unique one, which the current minister wants to further support with outrageous means. This is the climateism, environmentalism and such nonsense that will bring us to the ends of the world, and I also think that the world does not accept these values of the West, such as genderism, climateism, environmentalism, has fifty-six sexes. These are the values of the current West that the world does not accept and wants nothing to do with them. Just so we're clear. Immediately address the law on significant market power, where it should be dealt with: (a) the prohibition of buying at sub-cost prices; (b) prohibition of sale at retail prices, escape of revenue from the State in VAT; (c) cropping margins at the level of the circus 10 per cent after deduction of sales and VAT costs - today you have margins per food at a rate of 200 % and 1 000 per cent, so those farmers sell below costs, but then there is a significant market power, which has between 200 and 1,000 per cent profit, (d) the volume of sales at graduations, as is the case in Germany, up to 20 per cent; (e) the private brand of the vendors and thus delete and indicate the addressed manufacturer and processor; (f) strengthen the budget of national aid, I have already said, by at least 1.5 billion, which must be directed into the commodities of livestock production. - This is where the cattle stop behaving. And yet Minister Jurečka will say - I must say, that is the statement of the year - that we will replace the energy with gas from the pigsty if I say it politely. I couldn't miss it, and I think it really aspires to the statement of the year, although I respect Minister Jureček and I know he knows something about agriculture. - End of quote. These are clear steps that the government can take, and if it doesn't do something, people in the Czech Republic will get deeper and deeper into their pockets and will be unhappy and gradually angry enough. I was talking about energy. The next part is food, that's what we're waiting for, and I'm saying it about the day before the problem just pops out in all its nakedness. The five-calice government therefore has enough topics to address in the current situation for the benefit of Czech citizens. Not enough, basically, what you look at needs to be dealt with, and it doesn't matter. And it's a problem that will eventually bubble to the surface, and it will be a big problem for the current government. Why isn't she doing it and putting together a correspondence choice at this extraordinary meeting and other entirely possible political issues, but not topics that actually solve ordinary citizens' problems, ordinary people, I don't understand that very well. But it is clear that this policy is more important to this government than helping people. For citizens of the Czech Republic, I think the correspondence choice is completely uninteresting. It's a political issue, and it's a complete mystery to me. So, ladies and gentlemen, I just felt that even though this meeting is going to be devoted to completely different things, it will be devoted to politics, that it is necessary to draw attention to what is bothering and tormenting people and what we will be meeting with in the coming days, months and years and what we will be dealing with. I wanted to give the government a little guide that I think should be part of these extraordinary meetings, and we'll see if she'll take anything out of it, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u42	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. And now, with priority rights, is Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. I'll take the liberty of saying I'm sorry before I give her my word. Today Martin Baxa apologizes from the meeting until 14.30... Until 14.45, now she's an updated note. There is also an apology from the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela, who apologizes from 13.30 to the end of today's day for work reasons. It cancels Mrs Zajíčková's apology, which will be present from 13.30, and also cancels the apology of Mr Ondřej Havel, who was initially excused within 18 hours and cancels this apology at 13.45. Madam Vice-President, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Minister, Minister, honourable Members, I would also like to comment on the proposal for this extraordinary meeting, and I would like to start with the research data that clearly states that 80 per cent of the population is concerned about the conflict and the effects of the war, 91 per cent of the people are concerned about the increase in life and the increase in energy, and about 50 per cent are afraid that due to the conflict of war there will be no social security money for Czech citizens and the investment needed in the Czech Republic, 45 per cent are afraid of the increase in crime. Nevertheless, we have an extraordinary meeting here today, which the coalition has the right to do, called it, but I am sure I am wondering what points this extraordinary meeting is called with, with emphasis on what I have just said at the outset. You all know very well that, in November and December, we have already presented important House prints to address energy prices by reducing VAT and, at the same time, for people, households and entrepreneurs to receive funds from renewable sources. We have tried to convince you to support this point and this agenda of the meeting that we have presented. And I believe that some Members of the Coalition are certainly talking to their citizens in their regions, and they certainly know how energy, fuel and other things are constantly growing. And I have to say and repeat the important argument once again that when the finance ex-minister pushed 0 percent of the VAT rate on energy in November and December, this is why inflation was maintained around 6 percent. Today we have the beginning of May, and inflation is rising to 12 percent. That is why I am really surprised that if we have two crises here, one crisis is a refugee crisis, and the other crisis is an economic, refugee crisis, and the strategy will be dealt with next week, I thank the President of the STAN Parliamentary Club for putting this point right here next week for Tuesday at 18 o'clock, although I think it should have been dealt with much earlier, because that strategy of resolving the refugee crisis does not really exist in my opinion and my fellow experts. And if the Chamber of Deputies agreed to be submitted by 14 April, then I think that all Members should have immediately been informed of it, they would certainly have been through e-mail boxes, but such an important strategic document should have been discussed immediately. And as we've been told on the Security Committee, it's a living document, we'll talk about it. But I don't see any debate anywhere, I haven't noticed a Security Committee meeting since April 14th. Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan here said that other committees, the Health Committee, should discuss this with the Education Committee, the Social Committee, should discuss it. And I think it could have been a long time ago that we can't deal with this at the end of April or early May. According to the information I have, 11 so-called working groups have now been created. Again - they formed a few days ago. At this point, people are nominated for those working groups, which means they're closing down sometime this week, and only then they're meeting. But those cities, communities, regions and everyone else need to have that strategy, and they need to know what's really going to happen in a month, in three months, in six months. Above all, and I keep saying this, they need the proper records, although surely the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education is trying very hard, and there is already some detailed material where we can see, for example, how much capacity remains in the kindergarten, primary, secondary schools, as well as in the doctors. But if the mayor of the city, the municipality, or the governor of the region doesn't know how many refugees he has on his territory, he can't solve subsequent questions, which is employment and capacity in those school establishments and in the health care sector. You must register that the situation is serious in large cities, I will say Prague, Pilsen, Brno, about places especially in kindergarten schools. And we all know that the Minister for Regional Development has written some kind of subsidy programme for cities, municipalities, not with a large financial allocation to address accommodation. But I didn't even notice anyone dealing with a shortage of places in kindergarten. It is necessary to address this, because kindergarten entries are taking place at this time and some children need to start now or September 1. And I, for example, consider this an important priority issue to be addressed. Then, of course, the so-called Rom people of Ukraine, for example the last article that I registered yesterday in Brno, where about 80 visitors camped at the main station in Brno, grew much more from the position of security. They're all clueless, they don't know how to deal with it. In this we register that the Minister of the Interior has arranged three accommodations, one in the Central Bohemia Region, one in the Highlands and one in the South Moravian Region. Then you read in the media that the mayors of these communities know nothing about it, that no one was communicating with them. That's why I keep opening up the most important question, and that's why we need to communicate. And the communication, in my opinion, is very lacking. And on this issue, twice. So when we look at today's program - and we all know that we have two crises here that we have to deal with, both the refugee and the economic - it really amazes me that today we have an item on the agenda to take CZK 14 billion to public health insurance. After all, we all know that before refugees fled to us - and today we have roughly registered them, I emphasize registered, 320 000 - so we did not have enough children's doctors, practices, dentists, gynecologists. [[14.50 hours]] I've been in a situation many times since I was mayor, when a general practitioner left town, and I can tell you that it was the hardest task to get a doctor into the city of a six thousand city, and now the other doctor ends up there, and I have to say, even though I haven't been mayor for so many years, I still have citizens calling me if I still can't solve it. And that's the same thing with doctors - pediatricians, and if we looked at the dentist when the lady came to see you, and I had experience that she really wrote me a letter. He sounded a little bit like someone might laugh at it. The lady was over 80 years old, and she needed dental treatment, but no one wanted to treat her. And she wrote me that letter in the spirit that she didn't have that much teeth in her mouth, but that if she didn't have the dentist and she went to the ER, she'd take the last of her teeth, and that it hurt so much, that she'd already bypassed so many dentists and no one would take it. So, in my opinion, no one is aware of the seriousness of the situation regarding the lack of doctors, and if I look around the Chamber of Deputies, I'm sure each of you will tell me that you've met someone who's come to you, that they can't find this doctor or that someone can't take him. And I have to say that if we look at the statistics that are currently waiting for us for surgery, I would like you all to listen to this: total knee endoprothesis - on average 126 weeks, total hip endoprothesis - on average 96 weeks, dental treatment if you need total anesthesia - 110 weeks, paediatric eye clinic - 60 weeks. And so, of course, I could continue. And that is why I am very surprised that, in this situation today, a meeting is being presented here, that a sum of CZK 14 billion will be taken under health insurance, to which another CZK 6 billion has already been taken away from the Ministry of Health. These funds have been withdrawn from organisations established by the Ministry of Health, whether they are hygiene or by the State Institute of Health. And I think that these funds should stay in the health sector, because health needs to get better all the time, and health is the most important thing we have. Although, of course, I have noticed here from my fellow Member, Mr Svoboda, that about the weeks that I say here are probably not based on the truth. I'm sure I'd love to talk to him during a break, because I know he's an expert, I'm sure I'd be happy to discuss it with him. On top of that, if I looked at the next point that is being put forward, and that is that you want to cancel the EET, I would first of all like to say that I was here in the last term of office, and I know how hard it was for us as a government coalition to enforce this law. And I have to say, if we wanted to enforce it, we had to make a deal with the opposition. I do not know if I remember it well, that while there was also the third reading, as Mr Marek Benda here - I do not know, I hope I remember it well - that there were also various documents at the third reading, and many weeks of the third reading did not happen. But what I'm saying is that in your programming statement, you have that you will fight against the gray economy and at the same time prevent tax evasion. When I look at employers' representatives today, the EET supports both the Association of Employers and the Chamber of Commerce. And the paradox is that you want to take 14 billion in health insurance, but the 14 billion that you receive under EET, and according to the analyses that are, so this amount should come into the budget under the EET, and today there are a number of entrepreneurs and entities that are against it, I have already mentioned it, as those represented by individual employers. I think the other benefit of the EET was definitely credit card payment. If the EET is canceled, it can happen, and some already report that the number of places where the card would be paid will be reduced and people will have to pay in cash. I understand the current government coalition that if they do not have 14 billion in their budget, they need not only that it will be in this important document, but that they must also have it approved, and that is why they are putting it on today's agenda. Nevertheless, I believe that, because of the refugee crisis, they should reconsider this step. And the same is true of electronic sales records. We had a debate today with a coalition MP who clearly said that maybe some groups didn't like it. I would still understand if this law were presented here in some form regarding some relief, but practically the law will be abolished completely and will not apply to anyone at all and does not correspond at all to what you have in your programming statement. At the same time, I am very sorry that the other things, whether it is the amendment to the conflict of interest law or the amendment to the Act on elections to Parliament, the so-called correspondence option, I really think that these are not topics at all at the moment that should be discussed at an emergency meeting. These are political issues. And I am also convinced that the current government coalition has written in its programming statement that it will cooperate constructively with each other and with the opposition. And I would very much like to challenge you, it is always on the presidents of the individual clubs, so that communication and constructive cooperation take place. I know you're trying to do this in some way, but if there are two agendas coming up, I'm sure it's up to the President of the Chamber of Deputies to determine the agenda for the Chamber of Deputies, the extraordinary meetings in question, but it's clear that the government majority has a majority, but I think that communication with the opposition is crucial, and I really believe that the things that the government coalition is presenting today at an emergency meeting are things that I understand that they need...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u44	Madam Vice-President, I will interrupt you. I'll ask my colleagues to calm down. The noise level exceeds the load limit for the speaker. [[Vice-President Mračková Vildumetz: Thank you, Mr Vice-President...]] Hang on, I can't hear the silence yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u45	I certainly understand that the government coalition has a majority and that there are certainly House prints that it needs to push through, even in line with the way it approved the state budget, but I repeat again that there are points in the draft meeting today that, in my view, do not belong to an extraordinary meeting, even though, of course, the government coalition is entitled to that. But most of all, because we have the situation we have here, and we have a refugee and economic crisis here, I believe that an extraordinary meeting should address completely other important points that affect citizens and which are currently the most concerned, whether they are energy prices, fuel prices, food prices and, of course, the refugee crisis. [[15.00 hours]] At the same time, I would also like to ask the presidents of the MPs and also the government Members if they would consider reconsidering the agenda of the meeting today, if they really do, with all the points that are proposed, whether to deal with them and whether to withdraw any of the agendas of this extraordinary meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u46	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. That was the last application with priority rights. Still, I'll check the O.R. to see if there's any prioritizing rights yet, and no one wants to sign up for the agenda. If this is not the case, then we will vote on the whole proposal for the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm gonna go on so all my colleagues can make it to the O.R. Yes, I'm registering a check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-registered with your I.D. cards. I will repeat once again that we will vote on the whole proposal for the 20th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented to you in writing. We're just asking for one more second of patience, one card to vote. [[He's waiting a while.]] So I'm gonna ask if the card problem is solved. Okay. Well, I guess there was enough time to get to the O.R. We will therefore vote on the whole agenda proposal for the 20th meeting. And I dare to begin the vote and ask who is in favour of such a agenda to press the button and raise his hand. So now the vote's in motion. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 172 Members were voted in favour of 93, against 58. The draft agenda of the 20th meeting has been approved. And we can proceed to the first item on the show that is... Is your colleague Nacher reporting for a vote or...? My colleague Nacher must have volunteered by mistake. Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to clarify the situation right now, on behalf of the coalition MPs, there are five of us, I propose that we vote today after 19th, 21st, 24th hour until the very end... of all the laws that are put forward. I think we need to do one of those night exercises here to find out who's got the majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u48	Thank you. That was a procedural proposal. Does the President have a counterproposal for him? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u49	Well, I don't have a procedural counterproposal. I'm just going to point out one thing that in the last term of the night, this wasn't a habit. We spent the night here twice. Once it was in the confidence of the government, that's what it's supposed to be, that's natural, and that's the second time in the emergency. This is where it became such a habit. We will, of course, vote against, so it will be your will, which you will certainly enforce, because you have a majority in this Chamber of Deputies, but I am not sure that there is no breach of the Labour Code, we have employees here that there is no breach of labour hygiene. And, of course, when you enforce that will and implement it, we will certainly have to turn to the House's leadership. We're gonna have to turn around eventually - notify the labour inspectorate and the other authorities, because I think it's not okay. I'm not talking about health issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u50	Madam President, thank you. I just want to point out that at this point, the person who proposes a change is to make an alternative proposal for a procedural proposal, but I am a tolerance myself. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] Does anyone have a counterproposal for the proposal that has been made, namely, to discuss all the points of today's negotiations after 19th, 21st and 24th hours? It's not like that. I will begin the vote on this procedural proposal. I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? 174 Members voted in favour of 93, against 79. The proposal was adopted, and we will therefore discuss all the items approved by the meeting after 19th, 21st, and 24th hours. Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture Jurečka report with priority rights. [[rightly Minister for Labour and Social Affairs]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u51	Thank you. Good afternoon. Mr President, I would like a brief response to the President of the club of the ANO movement, Mrs Schillerová. She's not paying attention right now... thank you very much. All I'm saying is that two months ago, you and the SPD club were here for hours, hours of two nights, and you were wondering how the employees of this House were doing. So please keep it nicely even in other moments when you spend hours and nights here, delaying the House's meeting. Here are concrete bills that benefit the citizens of the Czech Republic, and we can discuss them very quickly if you do not delay them and will not reconstruct them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u52	Thank you. Another with priority rights, Vice-President Bartošek. Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Through you to President Schillerová, possibly to others. The point is that we probably have long working hours ahead of us, and to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so I want to say that if a procedural proposal falls, it is only possible to put a counterclaim to the procedural proposal, but I would ask that we not discuss it because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Let it be voted out and then let priority rights be exercised. But I want to say this at the beginning of the negotiations so that it is clear for the next vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u54	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u55	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues. I would like to see you through to President Schillerová, whom I do not see here - and I see you, Madam President, yes. I'd like to give you an offer that is not rejected. As chairman of one of the coalition clubs, I offer you that if we start working here and act as we should, the opposition will also comment, the coalition will also justify why it comes with these six proposals, so if we make the first three points by some reasonable evening tonight, that means half of the agenda for this meeting, I will do everything in my power to make sure that you have room at night to focus on what we are doing at night, i.e. sleep, and that we continue the agenda tomorrow when we get our strength. It's simple. Let's work, act, first three points tonight, and we'll continue tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u56	Thank you. Mr. Fiala's priority enrollment follows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u57	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would exceptionally like to agree with Vice-President Bartošek. I tried something similar, if you remember, about last week, that if there is a procedural proposal, there should be only a counterproposal and there should be either a vote or a move on. No other matter should be discussed. I consider it correct what Vice-President Bartošek said here. Thank you for that, and I would like us all to act accordingly. I'll act like it. I'm glad we found a match on one thing. As far as obstruction is concerned, I have to say here that I listened carefully to President Benda, who came to this microphone and said: I think it is time for us to have some night exercises, and therefore, we haven't been here for a long time at night, so I suggest we act after 19th, 21st and 24th. So basically the coalition government here is telling us that we haven't done anything yet, and you're telling us that we need to take a night exercise. I understand, but don't blame us for obstruction. That's all it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-03-ps2021-020-01-000-000.u58	Thank you, too. Let us all certainly respect the Rules of Procedure and, after the procedural proposal has been made, let us only come up with proposals to modify it. However, I had no idea where the President's speech would go. I thought there'd be a counterproposal. Okay. Anyone else checking in with priority rights? It's not like that. I have yet to say that with the replacement card number 28, Mrs Bačíková will vote, and with the replacement card number 23, I, Mr Skopeček, will vote. And if we're through with all this opening stuff, we can finally proceed to the first point of our negotiations, which is
