ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u1	168. Oral inhalation Interpelations are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of the Members in which they will perform and submit oral interviews was drawn, first of all to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, between 14.30 and 16.00 and the other members of the Government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. So now I give the floor to Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister, and I ask her to prepare, even though I do not see her yet, Mrs Alena Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u2	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, although the Czech Telecommunications Authority is part of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, our entire government is responsible for the health of citizens, I am therefore directing my inquiry to you. The Czech Telecommunications Authority as a telecommunications regulator is responsible for sending devices placed on the market in our country. They are mobile phones, tablets, smart watches and other devices and accessories that allow wireless broadcasts. From this position it is the Czech Telecommunications Authority that guarantees the safety and health of people who use these devices in our market. I was inspired by the approach of the French public authorities to my interpellation, which asked the health agency ANSES to comment on possible related health risks in relation to the specific extent of the absorption of electromagnetic radiation from mobile phones and other connected devices on the body. In its report, in October 2019, the Agency recommended that public authorities withdraw or update mobile phone software that did not meet the limits, and in France, it covered 250 mobile models. She also recommended testing all SARs in direct contact with the skin, which is at zero distance. They are still measured in 5 millimeters. In accordance with the recommendation of the Agency, France formally objected to the European Commission's Regulation 50566 of 2017 and requested the measurement of SARs at the level of 0 millimeters. Will we be equally responsible to the health of our citizens and will we support this French proposal in the relevant institutions of the European Union?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u3	Thank you, Madame. Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I greet you all at the start of today's interventions. We're starting with an interpellation that's very specific. I thank Mrs Lesenská for the trust she puts in my knowledge, but I have to admit that I have to rely on the evidence I have from the Ministry of Industry and Trade on measuring SAR, and I would also like to leave you, through the Vice-President, if you would like some more detailed information. Since the beginning of this century, Czech and world legislation has had exposure limits for the entire frequency interval of non-ionizing radiation, i.e. from static fields to ultraviolet radiation, and these exposure limits have been built on detailed knowledge of the interaction of electromagnetic fields and living tissues and are therefore completely independent of the technology that generates electromagnetic fields. SAR, a shortcut from English, expresses the amount of radiation that absorbs matter with defined properties. As far as mobile phones are concerned, SAR is evaluated mainly because of radiation penetration into human brain tissue and SAR number is the maximum value of energy absorbed by the substance per unit of mass, i.e. when comparing mobile phones according to SAR it is necessary to be careful that in different parts of the world the reported value of SAR is related to different mass units, and this may cause some misunderstanding. There are maximum SAR values that no mobile phone must exceed, and for different parts of the world are set differently. In Europe, these standards are set or those values are set by the International Commission for Protection against Non-Ionizing Radiation, which allows a maximum of 2 watts per kilogram in 10 grams of tissue. This concerns the head and torso. For limbs the maximum value of SAR is somewhat higher and reaches 4 watts per kilogram. The SAR value is one of the basic requirements for radio equipment. Of course, the products must meet the requirements that are then laid down in harmonised standards. The measurement procedure for evaluation of specific absorbed power when exposed to human high frequency fields from the hand held and to the body attached to wireless communication devices is actually evaluated. In the Czech Republic we have these things adjusted, namely by Government Regulation No. 426 of 2016 on the assessment of the conformity of radio equipment when making them available on the market and by Government Regulation No. 291/2015 on health protection against non-ionic radiation. So it can be said that health legislation is fully prepared, our legislation, for the development of telecommunications networks, which take less than 0.002 % within the frequency interval of non-ionizing radiation. However, the problem is also addressed by the National Reference Laboratory for Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Fields and Radiation of the State Health Institute and the State Health Institute, namely this National Reference Laboratory, which published information on this in 2019, in which the State Health Institute actually responded to increasing concerns and questions regarding the readiness of the Czech Republic to protect health against electromagnetic fields, i.e. in this case it is non-Ionizing radiation. Manufacturers shall ensure, when placing the radio equipment on the market, that this is designed and manufactured in accordance with the legislation and relevant technical standards, develop technical documentation and implement or have the relevant conformity assessment procedure carried out, so that the protection of the population is ensured here. We also have a supervisory authority and this is the Czech Trade Inspection Authority in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u5	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u6	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Yes, you're right, we have written our questions to the State Health Institute and the COI, so we hope that they will answer us within 30 days. However, as you have summed up here, what the SAR contains and what it relates to, I was just wondering if we would support the French proposal for SAR and the absorption of electromagnetic radiation on our bodies to be measured directly on the skin, not at some distance, even given the fact that in each design for a smart device, satisfactory SAR values are only stated when the device is about 2 centimeters away. And most of our citizens are unaware of that. [[14.40 hours]] So I would go back if we were able and willing to support the French proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister still wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u8	The Prime Minister must know almost everything, but I confess that some of the questions are actually expanding my knowledge, so today I have deepened my knowledge on the issue of measuring SAR, and I say this without any subterfuge. The information I presented here shows that we have developed and expanded legislation that protects citizens sufficiently. In addition, we have the expert bodies of the competent authorities who are also doing this very closely. I have appointed here the National Reference Laboratory for Non-Ionizing Electromagnetic Fields within the State Health Institute as well as the role it plays in the marketing and conformity assessment of radio equipment by the Czech Trade Inspection, so I believe that we have sufficient protection of the population against non-Ionizing radiation, and institutions that monitor the maximum values of SAR, and the obligations of manufacturers and those who place these things on the market to really fulfill them and that citizens are protected. As far as possible future legislative initiative is concerned, I can say in general that I am very serious about the fact that the Czech Republic supports all the steps that lead to higher technology security, especially in terms of the impact of technologies on health. In what way will the Czech Republic join this, or whether our rules do not contain this in any way, this will be the subject of the findings, and if we need to strengthen this by joining it, I have no doubt that the Czech Republic will do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u9	Thank you, and I ask for another interview with which Mrs Alena Schillerová will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u10	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, allow me to draw from public sources. It was Czech Television, ČT24, 10. 11. 2022, where she said that in the next year 57 percent of companies are expected to lay off their employees. This results from the survey made by the Association of Exporters among its members, and they say, I will quote: "Insufficient support from the state to high-energy companies according to the Association will fundamentally reduce the competitiveness of the Czech industry. Nearly nine out of ten of them would prefer fixing energy prices as government aid. Many companies, according to the Association of Exporters, have reduced production, such as glassmakers, metal manufacturers, porcelain makers, bakers, food producers due to the increase in energy prices. The government's aid to large companies with over 250 employees has been described as marginal." I'd like to ask how you're going to deal with this. I know that it has been approved in the context of an amendment to the budget for 2022 by an amendment which envisaged a subsidy programme of 30 billion, but only, for example, Třinec ironworks need 5 and so I could continue. The program is - I guess, now it's going to process - it may be written out, it's definitely not going to be spent, so it's going to bridge to the next year, but it's not going to help. That's an amount that doesn't really help. I don't see any more help in the 2023 budget. So he's considering some kind of ceiling? One of your ministers has been talking about this, I think Minister Síkela, for these big companies, because the situation there is actually very critical. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u11	Yes, thank you, and I will ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u12	Yes. Madam President, thank you for the question, because the topic of support for large companies is certainly important. I don't even underestimate the expression of concern in any surveys that are a number of. On the other hand, there are similar surveys that show that many companies complain that they have a shortage of employees and, on the contrary, ask the government to create conditions for more people from abroad to come here. So I wouldn't want to make some simple conclusion from one survey that companies are really going to be making some kind of massive discharge. But we certainly do not underestimate this and we certainly agree that the fact that we have the least unemployment in the Czech Republic within the European Union, that this is our huge advantage and that we must do everything we can to keep virtually zero or very low unemployment here. As for helping companies, I think we agree - I hope we agree - that the help that the Czech government has provided for small and medium-sized enterprises, that the aid is large and massive, and that the ceiling on electricity and gas prices, which is currently applicable to small and medium-sized companies other than households and the public sector, is very helpful to our entrepreneurs. Let me just remind you that this is a reduction in energy prices of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour, including VAT, gas prices at CZK 3 per kilowatt hour, including VAT. Another help, and there will really all feel, is the remission of the fees for supported energy sources, that would be 599 CZK per megawatt hour including VAT, and the effectiveness of the forgiveness of this fee is not only in 2022, but also in 2023, and that is what companies can count on. Undoubtedly, it helps companies to cope with this difficult period, the critical period also helps that we have hit fuel prices, and at the same time that developments in world markets, which I do not question in any way, are positive. We are all happy about this, but we have reduced the price of fuel, the mandatory incorporation of biofuels into fuel is abolished, we have reduced the excise duty and we have extended the reduction of excise duty on diesel until the end of 2023. So there are steps that help companies, even the big ones, because everyone will feel them. I am not hiding it, and I have said it repeatedly, that it is in the case of industry and large companies that there is a problem, not only in the Czech Republic, of how to do this, and that at the same time it is the most expensive support. However, we did not remain seated, we took advantage of the possibility offered by the temporary crisis framework and we also managed to extend not only in the Czech Republic, but also within the European Union under our Presidency the temporary crisis framework for next year, 2023. Firms, i.e. large-scale electricity and gas users, may request total aid of CZK 30 billion. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has launched the first challenge here - CZK 30 billion is not so little, and it certainly cannot be called just some small ones. On the other hand, I understand that for some firms the amount they can touch may not seem sufficient for the energy performance of their operation. Because there is also a special programme for energy companies with demanding operation, where cost compensation is prepared, indirect costs for emission allowances. This program ran this year and will run next year. And because I am running out of time to respond, I would end with the fact that, in addition to the temporary crisis framework, we are prepared or we are prepared for large businesses in case there is no agreement at European level in the rules on how to support industry and large enterprises. We prefer this agreement because it is advantageous for the Czech industry and because we do not want to get into a situation where we will compete with national budgets for who will support more large enterprises.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u13	Thank you and I see that there is an interest in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u14	Yes, thank you. I also have a very short time to react. We don't agree on a lot of things, but we'll save that for another time. I'd really rather stay with the big companies, which means over 250 employees. That's where the help was so far. Believe me, my experience in the covido period is that the 30 billion won't be a big amount just because they're such giants. Yes, I agree with you that we must appreciate the fact that we have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. It's thanks to our government's policy that we've kept the seats here. But I ask again: Will these big companies receive energy fixation? All I need is a very brief answer yes and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u15	Thank you. The President wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u16	Now, I don't want to argue about whether 30 billion is a lot or not, but as former finance secretary, you know that CZK 30 billion is not a very small amount. Of course, the way it appears to those big businesses is another matter. We are talking to them, we are in contact with them and I think that representatives of employers' associations, i.e. business associations, see our efforts to help those big companies and, of course, see the objective obstacles that exist here within the rules on holiday or illegal support for companies and other things. It's also no coincidence that no country has actually stepped in to put a stop to prices like we're imagining here, which we're talking about right now for big companies. While by the way we went as one of the first, that is to say, the price cap for small and medium-sized enterprises, that has already gone more countries today, although often not as generous as the Czech Republic, because there are some limits and percentages. But the Czech Republic has really helped our entrepreneurs significantly in this regard. I say again, we are ready and we have set up a price cap for big companies, but we prefer a European solution that we need to agree on just over the course of this year. If we simply find ourselves in a situation - it has not yet occurred, but there is information in the media that it might occur - that, for example, Germany would start to ceiling prices outside the framework of a European agreement, so how many countries in Europe will be able to support its industry in such a way that we can compete with Germany? If we leave it to the national budgets, will we compete with countries such as Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, and will it benefit the Czech Republic? It won't. It won't be good for businessmen. It is therefore appropriate to try to achieve a European solution that will give everyone the same rules, and then it will be possible to help companies even more and beyond the temporary crisis framework. But so far, there's help in the form of a temporary crisis framework, which means we didn't leave the companies alone and we're also helping the big industry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u17	Thank you. I would like another interviewer, and this is Mr. Vladimír Zlínský. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u18	Dear Prime Minister, I have listened carefully to the speech of the Chief of Staff of General Řehka at the command meeting where you were also present and where it was said that our army must be preparing for a great deal of war, even the most serious scenarios affecting our territory and our people cannot be ruled out, and we should not rely only on our allies. In view of these facts, I would like to ask you these specific questions on the issue of mobilisation. In the case of general mobilization: firstly, how many soldiers our army has been able to arm and equip - of course, at least the framework quantity, since many equipment and equipment have been sent from our warehouses during the last 30 years to different war zones. Secondly, for how many such mobilized soldiers the army has prepared accommodation in barracks or other suitable buildings - it is sufficient once again the framework quantity in percentage, since most barracks have been cancelled. Thirdly, how will it be secured and how long will it take to train incriminals, especially in the case of computer fighters and snowflakes who have not completed a compulsory military basic service and are in most cases completely unable to endure physical and psychological hardships, not to mention the ability to accept authority decisions, whether or not they will first be mobilized by years of military basic service experience, i.e. persons over 45 years of age? How do you prevent the escape of persons to whom the mobilisation obligation will apply outside the territory of the Republic, as we see in the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, where these refugees occur on both sides? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u19	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u20	Dear Member, your interpelation concerns an important issue, and this is the readiness of the Czech Republic for a deteriorating security situation, for possible risks and crises that we would have to face. This does not mean that something like this is currently in danger; citizens can be completely calm. The Czech Republic is not in any immediate danger, nor are we in a situation where we have to actively use our army to defend our country. But - and this is important and this is what the chief of staff at the command assembly you quoted here - the army is here to be prepared, we must also be prepared for all variations. You are touching one particular question, and I will answer it, but here I will remind you that our government is doing a lot to really be able to defend ourselves, to have a modernised army, to be well prepared for cooperation within the North Atlantic Alliance, but also for the possible dangers that are coming. That is why, after a long time, we have significantly increased the budget that goes in defence or the part of the budget that goes in defence. Yesterday, the Chamber of Deputies voted in the third reading of the budget for next year, where funds of CZK 111.8 billion were approved for the Ministry of Defence, which is an annual increase of almost CZK 23 billion. This means that we are gradually fulfilling the commitment to get to 2 per cent of gross domestic product per year, i.e. 2 per cent, which we are putting into defence. Next year, we'll be crossing the 1.5 percent limit. This is completely consistent not only with our commitments, but with the need for our country and for us to have a modernised army in the future. On the question of mobilisation, you know that the implementation of mobilisation within the armed forces of the Czech Republic is subject to a level of secrecy, so we can only speak here in general. The current legislative regulation does not allow for the implementation of dewatering management of citizens who are subject to the obligation, profession and training of soldiers in advance and the addition of material resources at the required time. This, of course, does not create conditions for some rapid mobilisation of the forces of the Czech Republic if we have to transform them into a warly organizational structure, that is why preparations are under way. The Ministry of Defence is preparing changes in defence legislation that will enable the preparation of soldiers in advance to carry out the selection supplement and possible mobilisation of forces including the necessary property. The selection supplement, which means the addition of soldiers in reserve to selected parts of the armed forces of the Czech Republic, can be realized only after the state of threat has been declared by the Ministry of Defence. Partial or general mobilisation under current legislation can only be carried out under the authority of the President of the Republic after the declaration of war status and so I can continue. [[15.00 hours]] But to answer some of your questions in particular and no longer address the problems of mobilization and its legislative anchoring in general. We are strengthening the Czech army, Minister Černochová started the program of recruitment to the Army of the Czech Republic in March and, above all, into active advances. Our goal is to accept more professional members of the Army of the Czech Republic. In this context, there has already been an increase in the number or target from 1,100 to 1,800 soldiers and soldiers. The target set by 2030 is to have 30,000 professional soldiers and 10,000 active backups. Some projects have also been launched, such as a preparation project to defend the state, which actively engages citizens on a voluntary basis, without which the country's defence would then be incomplete. So we are doing steps that strengthen the defence of the Czech Republic, both within current legislation and within the Ministry of Defence, to prepare such adjustments in legislation that would be adequate to the current situation and challenges facing our army.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u21	I thank and ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u22	Dear Prime Minister, I understand that this information is under cover, but if it is not answered at all or specifically answered, there are some conjectures, you might call it disinformation that appears on social networks, where it is then announced that 250,000 people are to be mobilized in our country who are to be trained in Poland and are to be dressed and armed by NATO. So I was going to ask you if you wouldn't be able to comment on that, because that's why there's a misunderstanding between us, and I'd like it to be a little more specific. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u23	Yes, thank you. The Prime Minister wants more details.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u24	Of course, I cannot say information that is subject to a level of secrecy, at least in a confidential regime. But I think I have answered this part of your question, Mr Member, through Mr President. The current legislation does not allow anything like what you mentioned here. Not to mention no one's even planning it, and no one's even thinking about it. Our army is constructed on the principle of a professional army. I have given specific figures here, how we want to increase the number of active professional members, i.e. professional soldiers, members of our army, to 30,000 by 2030. That we are working to have more members of active backups, that certain projects are being prepared for citizens who are interested in preparing citizens to defend the state where the active backups, former soldiers, former war veterans are involved, all of this has to do with military modernization processes, and this also has to do with strengthening military financing. But it really wouldn't be right, and all I can do is disprove it, scare the citizens by threatening some mobilization and occupation of hundreds of thousands of people and training somewhere else. I didn't even hear about it. And if it's happening somewhere, I can clearly rule it out. No one is preparing it, the legislation does not allow it, the Czech Republic will certainly not go this way and our government will not only prepare it, but will not allow it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u25	Thank you, and before Mr Kukla comes, I will read the apologies: Mr Jan Bauer from 18:00 for work reasons, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák from 14:30 to 15 for work reasons, Mr Stanislav Fridrich from 14:00 for health reasons, Mrs Marie Jílková from 14:30 to 18 for work reasons, Mr Jan Kubík from 18 to 20.45 for work reasons, Mr Petr Liška from 18 for work reasons, Ms Renata Oulehlová from 14:30 for work reasons, Mr Jan Síla from 14:30 to 15 also for work reasons, Mr Julius Špičák from 12 to 14 for health reasons, Mrs Helena Válková from 14:30 for work reasons, Mr Marek Výborný from 14 for work reasons. And members of the government: Minister Mikuláš Bek from 18 for work reasons and Minister Vlastimil Válek from 16 for work reasons. And you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u26	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, I will follow up on the question of a colleague who asked about energy prices. At this point, we have a windfall tax, we have a ceiling, and we are paying a tax. I'm not gonna argue here if it's double taxation and what we're in danger of. The government has introduced us to the state budget of some 100 to 125 billion from these levies or taxes. This money was used precisely to cover individuals and small businesses. I did not know the answer to whether the State was preparing any support for large businesses. Of course, these large enterprises must also create budgets for 2023 at the moment, and they do not know that they live in uncertainty. They can't invest, and they have to hold a lot of money on that energy. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: if there is no European solution, how will there be a ceiling and how much funding do they possibly count on? And my second question is to the vendors. At this point, we've got crop prices, but there's no ceiling as far as dealers are concerned. Sellers are not forced to lower the price in any way, so they will offer it to customers for CZK 13, 15 with certainty that the state will of course pay for it all. If the Energy Regulatory Authority is to control this, I want to ask if it has the capacity to do so, and there is also some legislation, for example, regarding a reasonable profit for small retailers, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u27	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u28	Yes, thank you. Dear Member, that was a few questions, I will try to answer them. Maybe I'll start with one number. Energy prices are a problem, our government is dedicated to them very intensively and I think we have taken a number of measures that will lead to energy prices or the impact of high energy prices, which is in Europe, being as small as possible on Czech citizens. [[With laughter.]] When you look at statistics, such as Eurostat statistics, the electricity price in the Czech Republic in October fell most from the whole of the European Union by 38%. Of course, it is the measures that our government has taken that I have already mentioned here. This requires forgiveness of the renewable energy charge or the cost-saving tariff. There's one thing I'd like to mention about energy prices here, it's a new one from yesterday. The Czech Republic has managed to definitively promote the extension of the TAL pipeline, i.e. the TAL+ project, which will increase the capacity of this pipeline from 4 million tonnes to the required 7 to 8 million tonnes per year, and will make the Czech Republic independent of the Družba pipeline for the future and we will be able to strengthen our security, energy security in this area as well. I remind you that we've secured sufficient gas capacity and we've taken further steps that allow us not to talk about whether or not we have enough energy, but we're talking about its price. [[15.10 hours]] I have also mentioned some of the steps taken by our government. The amendment to the Energy Act, which allowed us to ceiling energy prices for households, small and medium-sized companies, but not only that. That's what you've reminded me of, but I'll add one more thing that's not negligible. Of course, we have also done this for public institutions, or for all those who provide the public service, regardless of whether it is a state, private or public institution. This led to the reduction of power prices of energy at the level of CZK 6 for electricity and CZK 3 for gas per kilowatt hour including VAT. We have forgiven the renewable energy fee, which applies to everyone. And when you said you didn't know what we did for big companies: well, you did, because I was clearly talking about how we're using the temporary crisis framework. By the way, the temporary crisis framework is not a matter of course. It is a matter that the government has taken advantage of and which we have also actively promoted, its extension to next year at a level, at European level, which I consider important. I made it clear how much money we're putting into this, 30 billion crowns. I also said how much individual companies can draw from this. And I have also made it clear that if we do not achieve a European solution that is advantageous - it is not that we are longing for a European solution because we do not know what to do. European solutions and clear rules for everyone how to support their own industry are beneficial for Czech companies. It is not advantageous if we are going through national budgets and their competitions. [[If we go?]] And I made it clear that if we did not achieve this European solution, we are ready to proceed to the national one and to make a ceiling for large companies, where the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, has already said that the price ceiling would be somewhere, or if the price ceiling was somewhere near the ceiling that we introduced for households and small and medium-sized enterprises and the public sector, that would be somewhere between CZK 30 billion and CZK 50 billion. So there is already an estimate in the public space by the government, but I say again, we must first do what is really beneficial for Czech companies and what is really beneficial for Czech industry, and these are common European rules.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u29	Thank you. Does the Member still have an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for your partial answer. I'd just like to ask you briefly which one you didn't answer. The price on the stock market is falling, but salesmen have been rising since the new year, because, of course, sellers are sure that the state will pay them exactly as it was dealt with, on crop prices. I wanted to ask if the state would regulate it in some way and if it would do it through the Energy Regulatory Authority and how, because the small vendors, of course, are increasing the price, maybe even the big ones in order not to touch the customer. Thank you for asking... for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u31	Thank you. The Prime Minister will still respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u32	And so, yes, we're ceilinging the force file. In order to understand this completely or to think about it correctly, the vendors will be compensated for the real costs, not of course the price list prices. And salesmen don't buy on the spot, but salesmen buy all year round. And when you asked what the control is here, that is the competent authority or authority, the Energy Regulatory Authority, which is tasked to control or control these prices, and it also has a methodology that obliges it to proceed. So here I repeat again, the actual costs are compensated, not the price list prices, and that's the right procedure. But the key to ensuring that citizens don't have multiple energy, they didn't pay more for electricity and gas as well as companies, as well as public institutions, the key is in the instrument that I mentioned here, and that's the ceiling on energy prices and the remission of renewable energy charges, this year's austerity tariff, before the energy prices start. I think everyone already sees on backups what they get from those who give them energy, whether it's electricity or gas, so citizens can see how the price has just been adjusted and reduced by government intervention and that we have achieved the effect we wanted, and that is to increase the security of both citizens and entrepreneurs in terms of energy prices. And everyone now knows that even though the price has risen, it cannot happen to him that he would pay multiples and multiples and uncontrolled prices have increased further, because it is precisely the ceiling that we have set.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u33	Thank you. And I'd like to ask another one who's been properly interviewed, and this is Mr. Roman Kubíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I have been informed that Czech companies, which, among other things, produce so-called ammunition for 155 millimeters, have problems with the speed and quality of sub-contractors from the state company Explosia. According to my information, they would like to resolve these difficulties by strategic cooperation with Explosia, either by providing long-term investment or through income capital input. Since supplies of this ammunition are very desirable and important in NATO not only for the Czech, but also the Slovak, Polish, Latvian, Latvian army and have a valid significance especially in the time of Russian aggression in Ukraine, I would like to ask you two following questions. The first one: Can you confirm that the problems mentioned are actually taking place and whether there is a concrete proposal for a government to resolve cooperation in the state enterprise Explosia? And the other: If so, how will the government respond to this situation and respond to any possible offer? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u35	Thank you, and I ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u36	Dear Member, thank you for your question concerning the strategic company Explosia. In it, the State carries out, for the sake of completeness, the shareholder, in which the State therefore exercises shareholder rights, the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I will not be hiding anything at the beginning and say that it is true, confirming that in the recent past - and I think that in the same way the Minister of Industry and Trade or other members of the Czech Government - has turned more arms companies from the Czech Republic and one foreign company that even offered privatization of the shares in Explosia, so the interest in this company by companies is really very intense. Of course, I'm not going to specify or specify the companies here, that wouldn't be appropriate. I just want to make it clear that the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic, is not considering privatising this company and is not preparing such a thing, but the state's priority is the modernisation of production capacities linked primarily to a substantial increase in the production of critical commodities. And in that sense - and I think those who know the situation know what I'm talking about - and in that sense some steps have already been taken. I think we can also have a discussion about building common production capacities of the domestic defence industry in this direction. [[15.20 hours]] But - and this is important - Explosia is a major company for carrying out the tasks of the Czech Republic due to its unique position, which is that Explosia holds a unique know-how, has significant production portfolio options, has a unique production area, whose construction and certification today would be very difficult in terms of valid legislation, has the position of a key strategic entity within the domestic defence industry, a key strategic entity that is controlled by the government, and that is why it is such an interest. The development of the security situation in Europe increases demand for the military market segment, especially for large-scale ammunition, with Explosia, a joint-stock company, among the five world's most important producers in this area. But large-scale ammo isn't the only program, Explosia is doing more. And, of course, as a result of the aggravated security situation in Europe, conflict or war, Russia's aggression in Ukraine is registering unofficially increased demands on a wide range of product groups, and therefore - and this is part of my response - has also launched steps that lead to an increase in production capacity. Every year, however, this company increases production capacity thanks to the investments made in tens of millions of crowns. In 2022, this year, the company sold a modular load of CZK 450 million, which is at the limit of the company's possibilities. If there has been any criticism, I want to say that Explosia is financially sound, profitable. Investments in production of CZK 200 million are planned for next year, in the following years up to CZK half a billion. So it is clear here that this is not a question of financing, but rather of increasing capacity by the time required to obtain permission, implementation of investment projects and other things that will help increase the production capacity of this company. So we are dealing with this, and we do not intend to take steps to privatise it, but rather to strengthen capacity and production.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u37	Thank you. The Member is still interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, I am a former soldier, and I completely understand that the strategic factory of Explosion is never going to be rid of. However, the question was whether the granting of investment to the private sector would accelerate modernisation and capacity increase. I guess that's what I meant on this page, not because I imagined that the state would get rid of such an important enterprise. That has been done in the past, and we regret it to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u39	Thank you. The Prime Minister has an interest in responding. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u40	I said one sentence, which I will repeat here, that a qualified discussion can be held on the need to build up the future joint production capacities of domestic defence industry companies. This discussion can be held, I do not want to anticipate it here. I have come across various opinions on the possibility of strengthening the production capacity of Explosia and on the question of, for example, the quality of production. Let me just remind you that in the Explosia questionnaire survey, among the 15 most important customers, who accounted for 75 percent of the turnover of the company, who expressed both for cooperation and for the quality of production, Explosia achieved an average satisfaction assessment of 1.17 according to the school's qualifications, that is to say, she got an "A" from those who depend on its products, or who use their products. So on the one hand, there's an unofficially, maybe somewhere, an official form of criticism, but on the other hand, they're expressing satisfaction with the Explosion activity. But again, I'm sure it's in everyone's interest to increase production capacity in a reasonable way, and as I've described here, these steps are taking place and this is the way we're going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u41	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mrs Karla Maříková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, not only during today's interventions, but also in the media space, we can hear you calling for European solutions. I will now remind you of some part of your speech, which is eight years old: "When Europe is cursed, it relies on Brussels recipes. But which ones are they? Do you know one that really works? I didn't. Brusel has one answer for everything: if something goes wrong, it is because we are still little European. Interestingly, however, what works at national level is somehow failing in Brussels." Prime Minister, can you tell me what happened that you changed your mind about Brussels over the past eight years and now you are calling for European solutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u43	Thank you for asking. The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u44	Madam, thank you for reminding me of some of my earlier work here, which shows that I have dealt with and dealt with the issue of the European Union for a long time. I can't confirm your thesis that nothing proves that I've changed my mind. I haven't changed my mind. If European solutions are bad, I criticise them if they are good in the interests of strengthening individual states and in the interests of the Czech Republic, I strongly support them. It is not possible to quote out of context here because I have always criticized specific things, I stand by my words and it has been shown many times that I was right in my professional texts - for example, when I warned about the too rapid adoption of the European Constitutional Treaty, with the argument that it would come to light with the lack of understanding of the citizens of the European Union, it turned out that I was right. And that's how it was in more cases. What has changed in the case of energy, and what has changed in the case of the current situation and in the case of the challenges facing Europe today? It has changed that we are further in the dialogue within the European Union today, that the specifics of individual countries, the interests of Central and Eastern European states and the interests of the Czech Republic are much more taken into account in decisions taken in the field of energy. This is something that we have always wanted to achieve, and in dialogue with other countries we are able to achieve European solutions that are advantageous. Let me give you some examples. I think we can agree that it is a good way to put energy prices down - I don't know if we agree on this, but I am convinced - to introduce a certain element of solidarity in a situation of unexpected growth in energy prices so that those who have an unexpected profit out of which they have no involvement in their innovations change in order to play a solid role in this with those who, on the contrary, are getting into trouble as a result of the energy price situation. These are the things for which we have created common rules at European level. And I think it's definitely good. I also think it is good to agree on, for example, joint purchases of gas. The idea is based on voluntary joint purchases, no one's forcing anyone to do it. But by buying together, we are able to achieve the quantity needed first and secondly, we are able to achieve a reasonable price for the future. And that is in the interests of the Czech Republic. [[15.30 hours]] This is an example where the Czech Republic has a clear profit and benefits from a European solution. I mean, let's just remember, we are a state that is inland, which probably has some advantages, but it certainly is not an advantage in the area of gas supply, because we are at the end of all the lines of gas pipelines that are in Europe, and we cannot build LNG terminals at sea on our own, as virtually all the states that have this possibility are doing today, and we are dependent on agreement with them, on pipelines that go through their territory. That's the same thing I've given here, the example of oil. TAL oil pipeline, once again we depend on cooperation with other countries. Yes, we are self-sufficient in electricity production, but not in other key commodities, so for us, a European solution is something we naturally need and corresponds to the national interests of the Czech Republic. And we are not passive players or passive beneficiaries here who are waiting for someone in Brussels to decide what to do. We are active players, active players. We are also taking advantage of the possibilities of our Presidency. We are active, for example, in the Energy Council, which we have called several times and where we are now reaching decisions that are also beneficial for the Czech Republic, clearly for our citizens and for our companies. And these are the European solutions that I am talking about and which are good, unlike some others that I have criticized in the past.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u45	Thank you and I see that there is an interest in an additional question. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, you're just saying the positive. There are a number of European solutions in the context of the energy crisis that we see are not working and, on the contrary, countries are adopting their national solutions. Let me remind you here that we produce the cheapest electricity and sell it the hardest and we are at the worst prices from the European Union. But when you mentioned the Presidency here, tell me, what have you done over the past six months to change what you criticized eight years ago? That this is a European solution, European solutions are not working and, on the contrary, countries are adopting national solutions. And when you're talking about solidarity here, it's a mirage about thinking that if there's really a crisis, like gas, that Germany needs to share it with us when it needs it for its industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Prime Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u48	But that's not any, I think you said a mirage or anything like that, certainly not. These are specific things that simply have a specific impact. And by the way, we also made a solidarity agreement with Germany. And you can smile at it, but it really helps if we get into trouble. And what have we agreed at European level? For example, I have already mentioned this, the introduction of a temporary ceiling on the revenues of electricity producers of EUR 180 per megawatt hour, the solidarity contribution of fossil fuel companies to a maximum of 33 percent of excessive profits. We use these things. We have extended and extended the temporary crisis framework, which gives clear rules on how to support industry. We are discussing a sensitive agreement, a regulation which establishes a mechanism for joint gas purchases and also strengthens solidarity measures in case of emergency. The agreement is also in the form of a regulation establishing a framework for the accelerated construction of renewable resources, when the deadlines are shortening, which is certainly also in the interest of the Czech Republic, so I could continue. We also agreed on how countries will reduce demand and how much consumption will decrease, which is, in turn, an overall advantage for the Czech Republic. So there are many of the measures that we have achieved through our Presidency. We also have some exceptions that we have negotiated for Czech companies, Czech citizens and given what specifics we have as an inland state in the field of oil or gas. So I can say that our actions are beneficial for Czech citizens and the Czech Republic. [[Your time, Prime Minister!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u49	I thank you, and before I give my word, I'll read the apologies. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes from 18:00 for work reasons, Mr Petr Bendl apologizes from 18:00 for work reasons and from 15:00 to 16:00 for work reasons Mr Síla apologizes. And now, Mr Radim Fiala, who has been duly applied for, will speak with his intervention on the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u50	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, it does not allow me to return to my colleague's previous interpellation and a European solution at least once, two sentences. Let us tell ourselves the truth, there is no European solution to this day. You agreed to make a deal, but maybe next time. It is also commented by the commentators who are from the media standing there in the European Parliament. So in the six months that you run the European Union, the European Council, you haven't solved anything, and we can document it on the figures where the citizens of the Czech Republic have the most expensive electricity and the most expensive gas, and after all, fuel. So I don't see any benefit. But now to my interpelation because I'm limited in time. I appeal to you in connection with the progressing and your government completely out of control of the energy crisis, namely the direct impact of excessive and unacceptable high electricity and gas prices on our households, especially the most socially threatened of them, seniors, parents, single parents, disabled people, working families with children and low incomes. I'm from Olomouc County, I get hundreds of letters, just like you, that these people don't have what it takes to pay for it. And you were here a little while ago talking about how I'm sure everyone needs to see their energy regulations cut. On the contrary, Prime Minister, you probably haven't seen the invoices at all. These are amounts that are at least 100 percent higher than they were last year, and these people are dealing with how they're going to pay. A lot of them, for example, drown in just one room. A lot of them weigh on pharmacies' scales if they pay rent for energy, food, or medicine. And these are things that are still impossible. That's how far you've come, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u51	Time! Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, time for an answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u52	I, Mr President, will be happy to answer some of your questions. On the other hand, I must say that if I list here the specific things that we have achieved at European level and which are beneficial for the Czech Republic, these are simply the facts, and you say that we have achieved nothing and that these are all promises for the future, then the debate is very difficult. This is true in the Bible: He who has ears to hear, hear. But I think we are being looked at by citizens who are interested in this and who can judge how and which arguments are relevant and which are not. And I repeat and return to the European solutions. We are a country that, for various reasons in the field of energy security, needs cooperation with other countries, and if we go the way that I also sometimes hear design here, but more and more weak, because more and more public knows that this is nonsense, that we would have to close ourselves here and have the idea that we would be energy-sufficient, we would soon find that we would not, that those things that are dependent on gas, heating or fuel, so that we could drive at all, so that we would probably just have to forgive ourselves, because we would simply not have to cooperate with other countries, or oil, or gas. So the way I hear from you sometimes - just a national solution and let's do it all on our own - it doesn't work. [[15.40 hours]] I also don't know what you're imagining under this European solution. I do not imagine under it any simply regulation as to how we are all supposed to do this, but under it - and we are also achieving this - common rules and common limits, which are then beneficial for us. I really do not see any point in competing with Germany for who more will support their industry on the basis of their national decision and the possibilities of their national budget. Whoever proposes this simply does not propose a matter that is in the interests of the Czech Republic, so let us not turn our noses over European solutions. We don't have the most expensive prices, don't scare people - we've been listening here to see some solutions in other countries. I've always heard Hungary and something like that. Take a look at what fuel looks like in Hungary. Look at what's going on in there with the prizes. Take a look at other countries whose examples were mentioned here, as well as their long-running prices. Only now do they think about it when Czech citizens already have the confidence of ceiling prices. That we didn't do anything for Czech citizens? Well, look at what every citizen sees in the accounts that you mentioned here, where they are reminded of those who sell them electricity or gas, the measures that the government has taken, the priced energy, the remission of renewable energy charges, the austerity tariff this year, and a lot of other things. If we didn't, the price of electricity and gas is much higher, and that's what citizens see. There's no question about that. What, of course, does not make us happy, but what any reasonable person seems to understand is that it is not easy to influence, these are energy prices in Europe and in world markets, and we are doing what we have to do, that is, on the one hand, we are influencing them through the common steps of the European Union states - and those measures have had an impact on what is now the price of electricity and gas on exchanges, that is one plane - and the other are national solutions that allow us to just put gas prices on the table, to forgive renewable energy charges or to take measures that have led to a reduction in fuel prices, as I have already mentioned. And I am delighted that a number of measures in this difficult and critical situation - I do not question it at all - work. They are expensive measures, they cost tens and hundreds of billions of crowns, which is why we have also taken extraordinary measures that will provide us with revenue into the state budget and strengthen the element of solidarity in society, and this is a war tax, or windfall tax. So the concrete things our government has done are a whole series, but that's not the point. There are concrete results for citizens of the Czech Republic who help them cope with this situation with expensive energy, and that is the most important thing. [[Your time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u53	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u54	So let's see some of your results. For example, solidarity, you are talking about solidarity. It means you signed a legally non-binding memorandum. And I guarantee you here that solidarity will only be respected by all your colleagues in the European Union if they have full stacks. Once they have them empty, there will be no solidarity. But I have a study here, an analysis of WOOD & Company, which says: "During the first nine months of this year, households in the Czech Republic paid more than 50 percent for gas year on year, electricity went up by 30 percent last year, heat by 17 percent." They further say: "The average high cost of housing is 25 percent of the population in these household groups. The level of congestion of housing costs is related to approximately 648 000 Czechs. There are more than 157 000 people on energy bills. 231,000 people live in underheated real estate. The inability to provide adequate heat in an apartment or house concerns to the greatest extent one parent's household with children. [[Your time.]] Those are the results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u55	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u56	Those are the results of what? The effect of our government? Well, you certainly don't mean that, because that's completely nonsense. But I do not question the fact that many households have problems with existential costs, with the consequences of inflation and price increases. By the way, let's see how we fight inflation, but that's a different subject. Inflation is high in the Czech Republic and there are also energy prices that, combined with all this, can cause people existential problems. We know that, and that is why we have acted, so we have prepared an umbrella against the precious, which includes measures that help those who get into an existential emergency. These are not only one-off contributions, such as the contribution of CZK 5 000 to those very vulnerable in the middle class, the singles, the singles, the families who have small children, but it is also a significant extension of social assistance, the increase of some social benefits, and in particular the extension of the contribution to housing and the adjustment of its parameters so that it is entitled to much more households than it has been before. And this is a contribution that helps, where we repeatedly call on citizens, precisely those who have never asked for any social benefit, so that if they get into existential difficulties, they can take advantage of the opportunity offered by this contribution. We have already modified its parameters several times so that it is more consistent with the current situation, also increasing the number of people using this contribution. The last modification of the parameters was a comparison between Prague and the rest of the Republic, because you know that there was 35 percent, now it is 30 percent, and that is a thing that certainly helps citizens. So who doesn't get enough of the price ceiling and all the things we've done have the opportunity to ask for a housing allowance or other social assistance. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u57	Thank you. I'll read more apologies. From 18 to 23.45 for reasons of work, Mrs Jana Krutáková apologises and from 15.30 Mr Jan Volný apologizes. And now Mr. Oldřich Černý will perform with the interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u58	Thank you for the floor. Hello, fellow Members, fellow Members, Mr. Prime Minister. I would like to know your personal position on the liquidation actions of the Czech beekeeper sector with your Minister of Agriculture. This sector is undoubtedly crucial to our agriculture. Without bees and pollination, we wouldn't even grow most of the food, even if the state gave them God knows how much money. I don't know if you know this, but despite this undisputed fact, your government is reducing support for bee farmers next year, and it is very aggressively less than half of its usual and many years verified above, a truly incredible 55 percent. [[More?]] In the last 20 years, these subsidies have helped to bring back bee conditions after their big fall in the 1990s to a level that will ensure the pollination of our entire country. For the state budget, this amount is really negligible. However, for many beekeepers, such a sharp reduction in subsidies will already be completely liquidated in this winter, even in the context of a large increase in the amount of sugar needed. We will feel the lack of hives really, really, really, all of us. There will be not enough fruit, vegetables, but other commodities that pollination needs, and prices will go up. Quite scandalous is the fact that one of the Deputy Ministers of Nekula, namely his right hand, promised two months ago at the meeting of the Expert Council for Bees and Honey of the Agrarian Chamber that the Ministry of Agriculture would not touch the beekeepers' subsidies, and only a few weeks later everything is exactly the opposite. Do you, Prime Minister, stand behind your minister, who destroys almost his entire resort and whose closest co-workers make promises to citizens that they will soon forget? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u59	I thank you, including the fact that you have kept the time to interpel, and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u60	Dear Member, Minister Nekula certainly does not liquidate the Department of Agriculture. Our government, the parties that form the government, have already committed themselves to the necessary changes in their programmes in terms of funding, subsidy policy, management, which is related to this, and we have tried to straighten out the conditions between large and small farmers, because according to all data, they have received the largest much more money per hectare of area. This has been changed by the government in a strategic plan which, after several rounds of negotiations with the European Commission, has been approved in recent weeks and should be managed as of 1 January. At the same time, we made a commitment to evaluate it after a year and, if any, to amend it if there were any shortcomings. Here the new trend is already reflected in the budget for 2023, so there is no liquidation of agriculture or resort by Minister Nekula. [[15.50 hours]] And this is just a reminder of the total parameters. The expenditure of the chapter of agriculture for 2023 is CZK 57.4 billion, of which capital expenditure is CZK 10 billion, current expenditure CZK 47.4 billion. For comparison, this year's budget is estimated at CZK 59 billion and we still have to add to next year's subsidies from the European Union, which are planned at CZK 33 billion. National co-financing is another 5.3 billion crowns. The amount of CZK 13 billion is intended to support rural development, of which the European Union's funds are 8.5 billion and the related national funding is CZK 4.5 billion. Total funds from the National Recovery Plan under component 2.6 Nature conservation, adaptation to climate change are CZK 4.4 billion for 2023. I could add CZK 2.7 billion of forestry support expenditure, water management 1.2 billion, research, development, innovation as well as 1.2 billion. Then I could remind the State Agricultural Intervention Fund of almost CZK 40 billion. And so I could continue, so, of course, there are a number of reasons that confirm my claim that there is no liquidation of agriculture, on the contrary. As far as your specific question about the promotion of beekeeping is concerned, at this point, I am unable to give you a detailed answer, so I can refer you to the fact that I will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u61	Thank you. Would you like an additional question, Mr. Ambassador? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u62	Thank you again for the floor. You really haven't told me much about the bees. Indeed, this sector of the basic pillar of agriculture is best understood by beekeepers and not by politicians. Neither I nor you are beekeepers. So, Prime Minister, how am I supposed to interpret the information I recently learned that Minister Nekula is just a many-year-old, nearly 20-year-old passionate beekeeper? To suspect him of not understanding the issue is certainly not appropriate, a conflict of interest can be publicly admitted, and therefore I do not understand why he himself does not explain the whole issue to all of you in the government. The question here is whether your government's aim is to reduce and eliminate the bee sector and thus reduce the absolutely essential food self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your follow-up answer, which can only be limited to two words: We will help beekeepers or we will not help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u63	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u64	Well, I'm interested in your follow-up question that you know I'm not a beekeeper. [[- Me neither.]] Well, that's what you said, but I'm sure you know that about yourself, but you know that about me. But I'm really not a beekeeper, so you were right, and I'm not even gonna pretend to understand this issue in detail. If I am informed, we have a record number of beekeepers and beekeepers in the Czech Republic and the proposal to reduce these subsidies corresponds to some proportion of the subsidies, which, overall, is probably the response that Minister Nekula would have made here. But I'm not going to improvise or base any information that I can't have on the ground right now, so what I'm saying is, I'm going to give you the details of beekeepers and beekeeper subsidies in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u65	Thank you and we will now proceed to one last interview and ask Mrs Iveta Štefanová. Just for the record, I'm warning you that at 4:00 p.m., there will be an interpelation on government members again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I am asking you about an approved tax on unexpected profits in the context of the energy crisis, which concerns energy, kerosene or mining companies and banks from next year. According to ČTK, the government wants to entrust the administration of this extraordinary tax to the Energy Regulatory Office and I would like to ask why. The ERO is, of course, defending itself, in my view it rightly argues that it has no competence in tax matters, the necessary information systems or sufficiently qualified workers. After all, the government expects revenue from this extraordinary tax up to several tens of billions of crowns, and it is also counting on this revenue in the budget for 2023. This revenue is also intended to cover the exceptional costs of compensation which the State will have with the setting of maximum energy prices. Does the government want to jeopardize the income of up to tens of billions of crowns in the state budget by entrusting tax administration to an office that is not competent to do so, and does it itself admit that it cannot do so? I want to ask how the government will handle this in the end. Will these taxes be managed by the ERU? And why does the government choose this procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u67	I thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u68	Madam, of course, the idea that the government would want to jeopardize the collection of this tax is absurd, and you certainly did not mean it, I take it as an exaggeration of rhetoric. We need to be successful in collecting, whether the levy or the war tax, precisely because we need to apply the principle of solidarity, which I have already talked about several times today, and we need these revenues to the state budget precisely because the help we have prepared for citizens and companies, which is absolutely appropriate and correct, is also costly at the same time. If we just imagine the price ceiling, what it means, it certainly means about CZK 100 billion to the state budget. When we realize that, as a result of inflation and wage growth, we have repeatedly reviewed pensions, we only have to count on pensions with plus CZK 93 billion. And so I could go on, just the costs are big and we can't cover it with ordinary income, we have to take the extraordinary measures that may be, that's the war tax, or windfall tax, and also the levy on excessive profits, from excessive revenues from electricity production. The tax, as it has already been approved and, as it is already in the Collection of Laws, will apply from 1 January 2023 for a period of three years. It will apply to extremely profitable companies in the field of energy production and trade, banking, kerosene and fossil fuel extraction. For banks, a net interest income of more than CZK 6 billion is expected. The parameters of the tax are also given, I won't mention it. And when it comes to selection and who is to do it and who is to control it, well, we in this area in the Czech Republic have no other body that is more competent than the Energy Regulatory Authority. And that's not an organization that has several employees and some advice. This is a large state office with hundreds of employees and the necessary competences. The Energy Regulatory Authority will have a clear methodology for this, and it will control these things ex post. [[16.00 hours]] And besides, and let's not forget that, here, companies are primarily responsible for the correctness. That's always the case, and that's how it's legally set up, so the idea that the Energy Regulatory Authority can't handle it and that it threatens the tax collection is really impossible and not appropriate. The Energy Regulatory Authority has tasks to manage, and here it has the utmost competence of all other state bodies, so I see no reason why the Energy Regulatory Authority should defend itself. On the contrary, I think that he is the one who is competent and who is also sufficient to guarantee that he will follow the methodology and carry out ex post checks to ensure that the tax collection was correct and adequate. And I just have to insist that the procedure we've chosen here is reasonable, and I don't know why the Energy Regulatory Office is resisting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u69	Thank you, Prime Minister. Please note that it is 16.01.The time has passed, therefore, when it is possible to submit, under the Rules of Procedure, the last mouth of the question to the Prime Minister. I thank you, Prime Minister, and now there will be oral interpelations on other members of the government. I'll read the apology first. Today, at 6 p.m. for work reasons, Minister Vít Rakušan apologizes. [[A note from Minister Austrian.]] At 6:00 p.m., Minister. I call on Mrs Iveta Štefanová to present an interview to the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, and to launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members, Mr Michal Ratiborský will prepare himself. As the Minister apologizes from today's meeting, Madame, read your interview to the microphone and you will be answered in writing. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you today in view of the rapidly deteriorating situation with the availability of practical doctors. A long time ago, you responded in writing to my pediatrician-free interview. However, the situation is critical even with the practical physicians for adults, and I am very sorry that you are not personally present today in my interpelation. I've noticed some of your steps, such as increasing residences by 50 percent. This figure is still insufficient from a real need point of view. The necessary medical examinations have been adjusted, insurance companies help and inform patients without a physician, where they can find a doctor who still has free capacity. All of these are certainly steps in the right direction, but today's situation is affected by a minimal critical situation, but above all, they have an impact with a certain distance of time, up to a few years apart. However, the situation has been getting worse very quickly lately and the number of people who do not have their practical physician or are technically poor or unavailable for them, whether too far away or so on. [[of which:]] This leads to worsening of primary care and overloading of acute ambulances in hospitals, which often have to represent a physician. I would like to introduce you to some solution plan, and not only those long-term systemic steps that will help to resolve the situation, but mainly to stabilise, but also those steps that are short-term will be seen best in a short time and will be seen until the long-term system solutions are reflected. Thank you for your future answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u71	Thank you, Madame. Mr Michal Ratiborský, therefore, intersects Minister Pavel Blažek, who also apologizes from today's meeting. You will also be answered in writing. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to follow up on the written interview of my colleague Petr Sadovský concerning at least non-standard procedure of the Brno State Attorney at the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Brno, Dr. Eva Žďárská. Dr. Žďárská recently forgot to ask for an extension of the custody of a man suspected of murder, who then had to be released and fled to unknown places. She was found guilty in disciplinary proceedings. The Board of Deputies stated that it was a repeated hearing, a relapse, yet it was allowed to be punished with a wage reduction of only two months by 10 per cent. In another case, this summer, she released a man who had been convicted in the past of murder and extortion and coercion of other persons into criminal activity, now being prosecuted for several blackmails and frauds in a number of people. He is now at large and is undoubtedly dangerous to all the injured and others. You've been briefed on this case as well. This is a series of errors by Dr. Žďárská. On the portal Česká justice 21. 12. 2021 stated that errors in the State's Attorney's Office must be paid for. It was not so long ago that you criticized that the relations between the supervisory and supervisory prosecutors are often formal, so effective control between the various levels of the prosecutors is not carried out. Dear Minister, we have the case of a prosecutor who confirms your point of view regarding the mere formal control of the legality of the preparatory procedure. The SA shall be the guarantor of the legality of the preparatory procedure. If he fails, then his mistakes are to be corrected by senior prosecutors under supervision. You criticize that this is not the case. If the police control by the SA's supervisory attorney does not work and it is not controlled by the SA's supervisory authority, then they can create order cases and the courts can hardly correct it if we leave the whole preparatory procedure without effective control. Control cannot only be done on paper in the law, but it must be carried out effectively, otherwise the right to a fair trial guaranteed by the Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights is denied. Criminal proceedings decide the fates of people, therefore there are such claims for control mechanisms, which must not only function formally but effectively. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u73	Thank you, too. Mr Martin Kolovratník, who is intersecting Minister Ivan Bartoš, will now speak. Mr. Robert králíček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u74	Thank you for the space. Good afternoon, Minister. In the case of the construction law, the House press 330, there are a series of questions. First of all, the "one office, one stamp" principle. You know, in our original proposal, a request for permission of intent, according to our original version, didn't have to have a binding opinion from the public authorities concerned that the construction office would have provided it itself with maximum integration, as we expected. My first question, if you understand this, and how do you explain that, in a system with partial integration as you suggest, between small building offices, authorities on oerps, those authorities will have to physically transport project documentation, they will have to communicate with those authorities in some way, or if you believe enough that the electronic circulation of documents will really be prepared by then, and nothing like that will be necessary. The second question is personnel. You know that the system of construction offices is already quite undersized by staff, and if what you plan on the principle of appeal, i.e. appeals at regional offices, at construction offices on the outskirts, is now 17, they have about 230 people that will not prosecute. What is really going on is that at the moment of the wrong decision or the withdrawal of the dispute, the appeal process will stop if you perceive this risk. The third question, which relates to the Special and Appellate Building Authority. It is planned that dedicated line constructions should therefore operate according to it from July 2023, it should be managed by it. Are you filling it up yet? When and how will you take him? When does it start working? When will the Special and Appellate Building Office be occupied? Finally, the final question, the uniform environmental permit, the uniform permit. You know that the applicant may submit one application to a new office, but once again that authority will have to address all other bodies or authorities in environmental compensation. [[Time.]] Is this really gonna go faster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u75	Thank you, or you will have room for additional questions. Please, Minister, give me an answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u76	Hello. Thank you for the questions, I'd take it one step at a time. [[16.10 hours]] The integration, which was intended in the framework of a single building administration, or clean construction administration, and of course, there was no complete integration in the proposal, and some of the authorities concerned, such as firefighters and others, remained outside this system. However, at the level of the ORP where we were originally heading, a number of the authorities concerned are indeed at the same level. In the case where, according to the performance model, we are actually leaving construction offices in municipalities below the ORP, it is an integration that I would call procedural. I guess I don't expect you to go anywhere for complicated documentation at the time of the data box, those terms are, of course, binding, and if there is a need to deliver some coordinated opinions at the time, it will happen within one process, i.e. marketing "one office, one stamp, one process". It didn't even work in the original proposal as one can imagine that it is like this, it is simply a process that is going on, it has a beginning and an end, and within it all the institutions concerned will be dealt with. There is therefore an appropriate question, or there is a question about a single environmental position, although this is not the legislation of the Ministry of Regional Development, it is presented by the Ministry of the Environment as part of this legislation and there is also a coordinated integrated expression of a single one. The terms we talked about, which are binding, I have shown the maximum lengths, should not be affected by this. These buildings are simple, then they are more complex and the most difficult are buildings that require the EIA, an environmental position, extended by the EIA. In each of these cases, although we cannot influence the length of settlement or preparation of the EIA, we are talking about the fact that within a year, at worst within a year and a quarter, the builder should know whether or not he can build. If it occurs, for simple constructions maybe 90, 128 days. [[An appeal?]] But in both cases there is a significant shortening, which was actually based on the nature of the original proposal, because there are deadlines, there are binding - non-binding, there is a coordinated settlement procedure, and of course, some construction agencies are now taking a coordinated position, where they gather and deal with some things on an ongoing basis. On the question of SOSÚ, the term is clearly given, SOSÚ 1. 7. 2023 should start working. We cooperate with the Ministry of Transport, with the Ministry of Industry, we deal with the Ministry of Health, because of course capacity is demanded there. The trial is underway with her team, Deputy Minister Leona Šteigrová, it is basically project-driven and to 1. 7. 2023 should be fulfilled. And the question of integration. I believe that when we deal with the agenda information system, which already has the architecture assigned by the revised main architect and his people, of course the system that will allow this flow, the solution to connect to the authorities concerned, at the moment we have a data box as a communication tool, but there it will be a portal solution with a form, so I believe that the actual process integration will be managed by the digital system. I believe that at the turn of 2023 and 2024 the first building procedure will flow through it. So much for my answer, I look forward to a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u77	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u78	Thank you for your answer. I'll be optimistic along with you, Minister. There will be two additional questions. The first is for the time limits. You're talking about clear deadlines, like we talked about them. Our philosophy was based on the fact that if an official gets sick, there will simply be few, they will be fully represented within the single institution. In your, say, non-integration - I don't want to be evil right now, partial integration - they just won't be representative. So my question is: if there are no employees at any small office about four people physically, there will be no one to replace them, who will represent, how do you ensure that they comply with the legal deadline? First of all. Second, maybe it's just an interesting thing or a technique. When we voted press 1008 and 1009, in the definition of a living room that became such a media scoop, you - your coalition at the time was in favour - supported the amendment. Now, in the current version of the definition of living room, you are canceling. Let me just remind you, Mr. Secretary, it was this technical little thing, maybe a little smiley, with the basements and everything. You've been in favour, unfortunately, here you are against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u79	Thank you. Minister, will you respond? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u80	We have dealt with this situation of representativeship at a given office with colleagues both in the Senate and at seminars, even here in the House, where I had a meeting. The question was how to ensure this. It's either a higher-level solution or some kind of help, and we even talked about the fact that, for example, in neighbouring offices, you can then work with, say, some - and the first building offices that actually solve the possibility of a merger so that personnel and spatially this is covered. Representability is probably not absolute and it was not in the original solution either, even though we assumed a unified government, we would always move in that system upwards. To the matter of the definition of the room, if it's a parameter of lightness and all that, I know that this is where the last vote of the Communists, who urged the details of this. It is also not in the intention of building some underground dungeons or converting underground spaces into housing units. We're talking about what side the windows are supposed to be open, how many percent of the apartments are to be lit up in some new construction. We also discussed this at the level of major cities, the construction of new reconstructions, and there I think that if this is an object, we can still talk about parameters, but I don't think there's a risk. I am not sure that I would speak on this matter at the Chamber of Commons plenary, I would have to take a look, it has been a year and something, but I do not think that we have discussed the argument that has been raised here by the KSČM in this sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u81	Thank you. I will therefore now request an interview by Mr Robert Králíček, who is intersecting the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u82	Dear Vice-President, Minister, I am receiving information about a relatively high increase in outgoing members of the Police of the Czech Republic. According to me, the information available to me is being deepened over the long term, and it should now move somewhere between 5,000 and 6,000. I therefore want to ask you, Minister, whether you can inform us about how many members have left the Czech Police in the months of September and October, how many have been since the beginning of this year, or which region is most threatened by this base, how much are we missing and how do you stand up to this situation, how will you deal with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u83	I thank you for the clearly formulated interpellation, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u84	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, through Mr President. I'll send you the September and October figures you asked about in writing, but I can answer you now. Leaving, which is therefore from the beginning of the year until the present: 2,465 members left the Police of the Czech Republic. I just want to point out that this is not a state of departure from previous years. The previous year, by the beginning of December, before the accession of our government, was the departure of 2,559 members, i.e. the exit rate this year was record-breaking. [[Last year?]] At the same time, I would like to say that this year there were 1,848 new police posts, i.e. 1,848 police officers joined the service. Another way to motivate members of the Police of the Czech Republic to remain in a state is as follows. The increase in salaries to tariffs from January 2023 by 10 per cent in the relatively complex valorisation equation is based on this, and we informed the members through their command, but also through the trade unions, that it is not worth leaving the choir this year for reasons of equity, because it is simply not advantageous to pay the fees by 10 per cent on tariffs, it is not advantageous in the overall calculation. [[16.20 hours]] The next thing I come up with for the government next week at the meeting on Wednesday is the adjustment of the salary curve in the way that, at the lowest grade for beginners, for the first time, we will get into a situation where the salary of a member of the Police of the Czech Republic will begin with a threesome. Let's say it's psychological, but some increase from 26, 27,000 to the 30,000, of course, creates some more competitiveness for the other offers that are here. Furthermore, we want to approach the way primarily of age stabilization, that is, stabilization contributions to pay police officers, who, say, have already worked out a decent piece of career, have had a great deal of practice, have gained experience, certainly do not want to lose them and are also members of the category of pension, or have already achieved it. Of course, we want to motivate them and stabilize this particular age category of experienced members, which no police should want to lose at this time. As for the spreadsheets, you know for sure there's a debate going on. I have read the recommendations of Nerv, which even recommends cutting tables. We don't want to go this way, I refused it at the government debate. This means that, of course, we want to go on a good, high-quality recruitment campaign, pay perspective, stabilization, regular valorisation and, at the same time, by increasing the starting salary, we want to occupy about 5,000 vacant tables. I just want to say and point out that the situation does not go away from the situation in previous years. This condition is basically stabilized in the last few years. On the contrary, the recruitment campaign itself is quite successful. For detailed questions for individual months, you will receive an answer in writing from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u85	Thank you. Do you want to ask more questions? Please, follow-up question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u86	Thank you, I'll be brief now. A little bit of me, like you said about the raise, so I thought a little bit of the paraphrase from the movie Tour participants, if that's enough, but that's probably a matter of opinion. I think the addition might be bigger. The second question, or where I'm going with the question, is - I think that the information that comes to me isn't just about money anymore, but it's about time that the police have a lot of overtime, they're getting tired of it, they don't always want to go on, and sometimes it's better to leave with a little bit of service, but it's about overtime, the missing places. After all, we don't have to go far. We see how great the security services are doing in Parliament's building when they are working overtime, and I firmly hope that the police president will appreciate this at this year's rewards. I would like to ask two specific questions, whether you can say whether there is no threat, I would say the actionability of the police, and the second question, quick, because the time has ended, whether it will also affect the possible protection or cooperation on border control with Slovakia and other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u87	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u88	Thank you, through the Vice-President, Mr Ambassador, for correct and substantive questions. I see it the same way in the first one. Overtime, and not just this year, but in the last three years, say, in the context of the covid crisis, in the context of the migration crisis, is really big. We, as you know, paid off overtime that the law didn't order, which means overtime served in an emergency period. At the direction of the police president, they were registered from the outset as if they were to be reimbursed, and finally, after the government's decision, they were actually paid. We are, of course, trying consistently to pay all the overtime that is, but I agree with you, the workload is currently enormous. There is no danger now, and even from the crime figures, that there is no immediate threat to security, but I would say to you that the long-term deployment of the Police of the Czech Republic, for example, at the state border, certainly leads to the fact that claims to the police are too high. We therefore call this measure temporary in the long term and hope that the situation on the Western Balkan route will improve. But in one sentence: the capacity of the Police of the Czech Republic is not at any time threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u89	Thank you. Before I give my word, I'll read my apologies. From 6 pm today, Mr Jan Bureš apologizes for business reasons, from 16 to 19 pm for work reasons Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes for business reasons, from 16 to 19 pm for work reasons Mr Karel Smetana apologizes for family reasons as well as from 18 pm for family reasons Mr Róbert Teleky apologizes. As the next interview, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will speak to Minister Lipavský, who apologizes, so I will ask you to read the interview, you will be answered in writing. Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u90	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have a question about the form of participation of the Czech Republic in the Expo 2025 in Osaka. Although the government agreed to participate in the World Exhibition EXPO 2025 in Osaka, it has not yet commented on the form and form of participation. By the end of February 2023, the Czech Republic should communicate to the Office for EXPO 2025 in Osaka the form of Czech exhibition, form and scope of the presentation. My question is: When will the Czech Republic officially communicate to the other side the form, form and scope of the presentation? Second question: What will be the form, form and extent of our presentation? Thank you in advance for your answer and maybe I'd like it not to be until day 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u91	Thank you, Madame. Next, Mrs Lenka Knechtová will speak to Minister Vladimír Balaš. He also apologizes, so you will also be answered in writing. Ambassador Aleš Juchelka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u92	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, what subsidy challenges is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports preparing for financial support for adaptation groups for children migrants from Ukraine since January 2023, and how will the existing beneficiaries be made public and informed? In the national budget for 2023, there is no additional funding for integration activities related to refugees from Ukraine, for adaptation activities carried out outside the education system. In doing so, the Government proposes an extension of temporary protection until March 2023. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u93	Thank you, too, Madame. Now, then, Mr Aleš Juchelka, with an interview with Minister Vlastimil Válek. You will also be answered in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u94	Sure, thank you very much. Since January 2022, the Act on granting a lump sum to persons sterilized in breach of law came into force and thus allowed persons illegally sterilized in the period 1966 to 2012 for compensation. I am personally shocked by the last decision of the Ministry of Health that rejected the request of a woman who referred to Romani jurisdiction as the reason for her sterilization. The Ministry did not deal with it and in its reasoning completely ignored that ethnicity played a crucial role in performing the procedure. The absurd fact is that the Ministry rejected the request when the health care department took the view that the ethnic origin that the applicant has demonstrated in the medical documentation was against the law. It is not possible for the Ministry to ignore the social situation of Rom people in its assessment of the application, that it was a common practice of public authority. The practice and progress of the state was based on the belief that Romani culture and lifestyle threaten the healthy development of children, which is why it is necessary to regulate their birth rate. Not only birth control, but also massive child withdrawal was the established practice of the Communist regime. Furthermore, the Ministry stated in its reasoning that the woman did not sufficiently demonstrate in her application that her consent to sterilization was enforced. I also want to talk about the process of assessing entitlement to compensation for other applications. These decisions were clearly contrary to the relevant law. According to my information, the most common reasons for refusing an application are undocumented medical documentation that is already shredded. [[16.30 hours]] That's why I have questions here. I wonder why the Ministry doesn't follow the legal deadline for processing the application, because some applications are pending for more than a year, which means five times longer than the law requires. What has the Minister done to comply with this law here and to ensure that this process is fair, transparent and uniform when assessing the claim? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u95	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská will speak to Minister Vít Rakušan. I'm handing over the meeting management. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u96	Thank you. Good day to all of you, Minister, and to you. Dear Minister, I assume you have information from individual regions and you know what is being prepared in them or what your subordinates are thinking about in each territory. I'm intrigued by Colonel Ing's interview. David Pouč, Regional Director of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Králové Hradec Region, for Rychnov - the city and district in which he justifies the merger of the Rychnov nad Kněžnou and Náchod territorial department. The Director intends to divide the IZS and services department into the IZS section and the service section with the view that they must therefore merge both territorial unions, or he did not receive an increased table for this post at the Regional Directorate. For twenty years, the regional director of HZS in our region and so far other regional directors are also directors of the regional department in the place of the regional directorate. Perhaps there could be a relevant table service place in Hradec. In addition, the director is looking for another service position for the Regional Directorates at the expense of the territorial unions. You know, we in Rychnovsk have a very bad experience of merging with Náchod. Hospitals have been merged, and you can ask the mayors how satisfied they are. And now they're worried that the merger in the E.Z.S. will be equally unsuccessful. In addition, the Náchod Regional Department head office is located in Velká Poříčí, about 6 kilometers behind Náchod, and passing through clogged Náchod at any meeting is really an experience with often an hour delay. What next, will we also merge within the Police of the Czech Republic territorial department Náchod and Rychnov? I mean, Rychnov's the smallest county. Somehow everyone forgets that the district is small, but the area is no longer true, and Skoda Kvasiny employs 10,000 people in three shifts and thousands of other employees are in the entire industrial zone around the district.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u97	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior will now respond. The words will be taken by Minister Vít Rakušan, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice-President. Madam Vice-President, of course, I have also looked into your constituency and I have an idea of where this question is going. So I learned some information about the matter in advance, both from the management of the Hradec Králové Region and from the General Directorate of the Fire Rescue Corps. So let me pass on the information that I have at my disposal for this functional change. The territorial unions within the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic are in general organizing parts of the choir and are established on the basis of the decision of the Director General, i.e. they are established internally. This is not an obligation arising under the law. It is a historically created and practically proven structure which territorially copies mostly parts of the district territory. Within the HZS of the Czech Republic territorial unions are established at the level of the district, where not every territorial department has its own director, and some territorial unions are already merged. As an example of such a merger, I would mention the territorial department Kladno - Rakovník. During the second half of 2022, the director of the Hradec Králové Region discussed the possibility of optimization of certain activities in the framework of the management of HZS from the region. In particular, it is about ensuring the activities of the integrated rescue system and individual services at the Czech Republic - machinery, chemical, technical. On the basis of this evaluation and discussion, the director of this region himself asked for a change in systemization as one of the changes that were conceptual throughout the region, namely 24. 10. 2022. On the basis of an assessment by the Directorate-General, the Director-General shall make that amendment at the date of 1. 1. 2023 approved. This change has no impact and has no impact on the operation of fire protection units within the area coverage of the Hradec Králové Region, only in connection with other changes in the section of the integrated rescue system on optimization and proper provision of activities within the region. This change does not affect the operation of the units, i.e. citizens or other entities will not feel this change in the operation of the operation of the HZS region. This is a functional change, which, as was said, is within the competence of the Czech Republic's HRS, and it is therefore an internal structure of the corps. This is supported, firstly, by statistics on exits, statistics on prevention activities, but also by the activities of the integrated rescue system as a whole. As has been said, there are cases where such an arrangement works, and the territorial unions are still working equally efficiently and in the interests of the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic of the region. The basic prerequisite, the basic premise of the merger, or the maintenance of a separate territorial department, is that it must have at least three stations on its territory, which, for example, the Rychnov nad Kněžnou territorial department does not have, has only two stations. This concept will set up an organizational breakdown within the entire Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u99	Thank you, too, and I see that there is an interest in the supplementary question - please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u100	Thank you. Yes, all of this reasoning was expressed in that conversation, so yes, you are right. However, as far as the three stations in our territory are concerned, the director forgot to say that there is one HZS station missing on the first class 11 road in its entire length along the territory of the Rychnov district. There's only volunteer firefighters stations. Now rather a statement. You see, Minister, this all affects me more as a personal account handling than a system solution to the functioning of the territory, plus when there is a rumor in the galleys who will win the selection process and take over the merged headquarters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u101	Even the Minister with his reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u102	My colleague, through Madam President, I really do not know about any round-talking. If you know any information that should get to me, or should get to the leadership of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic, any suspicion of non-transparency of the selection procedure, please, then it is better than whispering the information, officially convey it clearly and on the microphone, including what suspicion you suspect. Then, as a minister or general director of the Fire Rescue Corps, we can examine these processes well and closely. It's quite difficult to respond to whispers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u103	Thank you. We'll move on to another interpellation. It's Mr. Patrik Nacher's interpellation. Mrs Karla Maříková will then be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u104	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would hardly call it an interpelation, but rather an incentive to solve it. What's going on? This is about recording or not registering executions in the vehicle register. I was approached by a client, but apparently he wasn't the only one who bought the vehicle, and only after the purchase found out that he was being executed, and the executor ran right into him. So I figured out why this is happening, why in the vehicle register, where historical data was written down for a while, that the owner was facing an execution... I found out that the practice was not uniform at the individual transport offices of the various city councils. In 2009, even a bailiff imposed a fine on the city authority for refusing to enter data on the vehicle register that the owner of the vehicle is in execution. The municipal authority defended the fine and finally the Regional Court in Ostrava decided that the executor was not entitled to impose the fine because the requirement of the judicial executor to carry out the registration of the ongoing execution in the vehicle register was not legally supported because this information is not listed in the Act on conditions of traffic on roads. In other words, from that moment on, it had some delay, individual authorities no longer write it down. [[16.40 hours]] And my point now is purely, I'm in contact with this minister, how to sort this out in the future, so to put it simply, it's basically acting like a cadastral, because when you buy a property, you know there's a seal, you know there's a problem, you know there's some kind of execution, so that people when they buy a vehicle, so they know there's a execution on it. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u105	I also thank you and now the Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u106	Considering that the interpelation was supposed to take place some time ago, but it did not take place, the Ministry of Transport, but at the same time the Ministry of Justice had some time to find and find suitable solutions for the case described. I would just like to clarify the specific situation that took place before 2017, and indeed, as Mr Nacher said, disunifiedly in the various offices, because by 1 June 2017, local jurisdiction was bound for the management of the vehicle register. And indeed, at that time, some authorities, but outside the vehicle register itself, in some database of their own, kept lists of which vehicles could or could have been in execution. However, this figure has never been entered in the vehicle register as such, with the fact that it would actually be appropriate for the future review to allow such information to be recorded in the vehicle register as well. We, as the Ministry of Transport, have therefore gone to investigate how this could be achieved, with the fact that from the point of view of available resources we can imagine - and we have gone that way, because there is a precedent in the case of the register of insurers - that we could place data in our vehicle register from registers that are on the side of the current Executor Chamber. Unfortunately, there is not one data file in the Czech Republic, one registry that would collect all information about decisions conducted under various legislative regulations at the moment. Therefore, there is no register at this time where it could be found in one place execution conducted under the execution order, execution conducted on the basis of enforcement under the Civil Procedure Code and also under the tax rules. However, the Ministry of Justice has expressed its intention to build a single register that would allow data to be collected and migrated from there - and we can imagine that we would not only give space to this, but we would like to participate in this - to migrate the data from this single register of executions to our vehicle register, because then it would be actually possible to mention for any such means of transport whether, as in the case of the real estate register, there is not at this time tied up any execution that, if someone had purchased such a vehicle, would subsequently be exposed to problems. We have come to the conclusion that there was a meeting at the Ministry of the Interior this week, which was also attended by colleagues from the Ministry of Transport. The meeting took place with the Executive Chamber of the Czech Republic, as well as in order to reach out as accurately as possible to the manner in which the executioners themselves keep the records. And even here it will be necessary to modify the work methodically so that in the case of vehicles that load executions, it would actually be written into their register, and it was possible to transfer it as information to our vehicle register. However, we took the first steps. We are heading for justice to put together in the first place all the steps to create a single register, where data on all the vehicles that have been executed will be collected, and then we, together with the Ministry of Justice, will create the data flow - interface, which would allow the transfer of vehicle information in execution to us in the vehicle register. It is the easiest way possible, because, of course, the Ministry of Transport cannot be held responsible for the accuracy, accuracy of records and executions. But we're open, we're ready to really put the information in our register, of course it could be displayed from there, displayed at the competent authorities, and of course it would also be displayed to the respective owners. I will mention that, of course, the law is already forbidding the property of the person who succumbed to the execution, so it should in no way provide it for sale, should it be handled, and, if so, it is indeed a fraud and a crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u107	Thank you and I feel interested in the reaction. Please, room for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u108	Thank you so much, Minister. I'm glad it's moving forward. It is really necessary to admit that there are actually three basic bodies: the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Justice, the Executor Chamber. That's where it needs to be connected somehow. I welcome the initiative of the single register and the fact that it would then be translated. But, of course, I also see that the Ministry of Transport cannot be held responsible for the truthfulness of the data. So my only question is, when is this supposed to be the single register, let's say, time, at least approximately, and if we can't do something together in the meantime, I'm here to offer help and cooperation, and I wouldn't distribute it to the coalition - the opposition, some kind of enlightenment around it. They're not thousands of cases again. What we've been researching together, it's tens, maybe hundreds of cases, but to keep those clients as low as possible. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u109	And please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u110	The approach of both ministries, both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice, to this question was really honest, so the Ministry of Justice really demonstrates in its reply and in its responses the real possibility and their own basis for this purpose, because the creation of such an instrument also includes an action plan for 2021 to 2023. However, the acquisition of such a register will undoubtedly be a matter of tens of millions of crowns. It is not in the plan at the moment, nor in the budget of any of the ministries, but that, at the same time, the Ministry of Justice, in whose position such a register should undoubtedly belong, states that it will continue to be honest about obtaining the necessary documents, and what the potential economic complexity of the project would look like, and how, of course - because it will be necessary to supplement - as would also be the ratio between the costs spent and the effect of such a step. We, also in terms of further development of our own vehicle register, will also prepare for the future the possibility that, if such a need arises, we will be able to implement it very quickly. At the same time, the necessary legislative steps are already being mapped to do so. At this point, the existing legislation does not allow a unified register in itself, and the Ministry of Justice points out in this respect that there will also be a need to amend the laws so that such a unified repository of all information about executions is simply created.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u111	Thank you for keeping time. I'll reload the apologies in the meantime. Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 17 o'clock for work reasons and Mr Jiří Strýček from 17 o'clock for work reasons. And now we are going to interpel Mrs Karla Maříková and next to be prepared by Mr Radek Koten. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u112	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent minister, you mentioned that you would like to return the above-standards to the game. In particular, you said that the moment we say they're above standard, we say that there's just going to be two groups of quality care. The amendment to the Act, which allowed health care to be divided into overstandards, was abolished by the Constitutional Court about nine years ago. The standard allowed the division of care into basic and more economically demanding. Insurance companies paid for the cheaper option, the difference in costs was paid by the patient. [[16.50 hours]] I would therefore like to know how you imagine it, because the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms says everyone has the right to health protection, citizens have the right to free health care and medical aids on the basis of public health insurance under the conditions laid down by the law, and above standard in terms of comfort, we already have them here. So what kind of excesses are we talking about? And what's your idea? Because an overstandard isn't the same as the insurance you were talking about. It's just the dual quality of health care. So I would like to ask if, in writing, since you are not present, you can clarify this for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u113	Thank you. As you said, the Minister is duly excused and will reply in writing within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten will have another interview and Mr Martin Kukla will be prepared. The MP is approaching the counter. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask whether any news regarding crime in the Czech Republic in connection with illegal migration has been recorded, so this week or last week at the crossings, any weapons or ammunition seized. Next I wanted to ask, I have now discovered such a narrative in Lidovky's online edition that pro-Putin's aggressors are supposed to be threatening and destroying Ukrainian citizens' cars, so I wanted to ask if you know anything about it or whether it is already in police records somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u115	Thank you for keeping time and responding to the Minister of the Interior and Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u116	Thank you again for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Member, through Madam Vice-President, I will first let the data, the facts, the figures be spoken, because that is what you asked in the first part of your question. Their interpretation is logically left to you, but now the numbers. As far as illegal migration is concerned, this is particularly the western Balkan route, these are the migration flows that have put in place again controls on the Slovak-Czech border. There are 94 percent of Syrian nationals. We all know about their expulsion to the country of origin. Overall, the crime rate in this year's total amount is at least EUR 0.07%, which is a negligible figure, and the vast majority of the crime is already linked to the fact and effort to transit through our territory, through the territory of the Czech Republic, i.e. the most frequent crimes of Syrian nationals were as follows: illegal crossing the state border, counterfeiting and alteration of public documents and road negligence offences. As regards Ukraine's migration, the criminal activity committed by nationals of Ukraine in 2021, i.e. before the outbreak of the Ukrainian migration crisis, was the number of 1 324 offences committed since 1. 1. to 31. 10th year 2021. During the same decisive period we have recorded 2.069 crimes this year, but if we take the view that we have granted temporary protection to more than 465 000 people within the Czech Republic, this is not a dramatic increase. If you're asking about any of the attacks that the Lidové noviny is talking about, I specifically didn't notice what you're talking about. But, of course, we are running statistics, and I will immediately turn it over, including the crimes committed by third parties on the members, i.e. on the nationals of Ukraine, and logically this number rose compared to the previous years, when the national of Ukraine was therefore attacked, this year it was 815 persons. But right now, I'm not gonna give these delinquents any subtext. I don't want to spread this mood, I don't want to give them subtext that it's always an attack because they're Ukrainian nationals, it's definitely not. Those people have been involved in a fight many times, which means they've been attacked. However, the crimes committed by nationals of Ukraine in our territory are in large part among the individual members of that community. It's often a brawl in hostels and stuff. And most importantly, and I want to point out, in these numbers, we don't now distinguish whether it's the new arrivals or the ones who were here before the outbreak of the conflict. And I dare to predict that in a case where 70 percent of the arrivals are women, mostly from the structure of these offences, they are more likely to be fights, assaults, nudges and the like, in residential hotels where Ukrainian nationals already lived before the war.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u117	Thank you and your room for a follow-up question, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u118	Thank you for your answers, Minister. So I would have a few additional questions, because I'm reading here from a report that says that 17. 11. 2022, I quote, "A case of attacks against the exercise of the authority of a state authority and a public official has been recorded in Prague. The perpetrator, a citizen of Ukraine, physically assaulted his wife and subsequently intervening watch Police of the Czech Republic threatened to kill, among other things, with the words that he had a grenade. His actions caused the implementation of security measures, when the residents of the adjacent housing house were evacuated" and so on. Also in Prague, addictive substances were found in quantities greater than small, where there is suspicion of illicit manufacture, possession and sale of narcotic drugs. So I have quite a lot of such records here and, of course, they are non-bageable crimes, of course, offences that the citizens of Ukraine are driving here under the influence of alcohol, that's quite common in seduces. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u119	I beg you to keep your time. I know the additional moment is short, but that's the way it is. And room for reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u120	I would rather stick to the facts than the impressions, Mr. MP, through Madam Vice-President. I have this kind of information service where all kinds of crimes are recorded, so I have a pretty precise idea of what's serious about the Czech Republic on that day. And believe me, the Czech citizens who commit crime still prevail. And this is where the statistics speak. The increase on the basis of the large number of Ukrainian arrivals in the Czech Republic, if there is also evidence of acts of disorderly conduct, vandalism, some fights, fights, the increase is really negligible. And I certainly do not accept the narrative here that it is more dangerous in the Czech Republic now because we have managed, and I repeat again, they have managed as a state, not just the government, all of us, the captains, the mayors, the citizens of this country, to accept a huge number of fleeing from the war from Ukraine. And of course there will be people among them, because Gaussův' curve applies in every social group, which will be better, worse, mediocre, and there will certainly be people who enjoy addictive substances as well as unfortunately among our Czech fellow citizens. [[17,00 hours]] But we certainly cannot define this group as a threat to security, even from the logic that the newcomers do not concentrate to a large extent in one place. These people are really living throughout the Czech Republic, mostly in families, mostly in some private accommodation. By the way, this state guaranteed accommodation from the current number of incoming people wants only 20 percent of the people, 80 percent of the incoming have the accommodation provided in their own way. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u121	Thank you and we will now proceed to the next interpellation, which is the interpellation of Mr Martin Kukla, by Mrs Marie Pošarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u122	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear absent minister, colleagues, my interpellation is for yesterday's budget of 2023, where at the Ministry of Agriculture this government took CZK 71 million from beekeepers. I don't know what the beekeepers deserved. I'm a beekeeper, a long-term beekeeper, and I'm very sorry. We currently have a lot of inflation. Beekeepers need mainly sugar, which they once bought for 15 crowns, today it costs 35 crowns. The minister here has promised to make amends, but unfortunately, no amendment has been approved, which means the beekeepers have lost the subsidies they could ask for - technical assistance, coaching, bee care, honey analysis, etc. Minister, tell me when you will return the money you took from the beekeepers. I don't know why this government issued such an account for beekeepers. And I'm going to end my intervention with the words of Albert Einstein, who once said that if bees die out, humanity won't survive them for more than four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u123	Thank you, too. The Minister is excused and the answer will come in writing within 30 days. We are going to interpel Mrs Marie Pošarová, Mr Lukáš Vlček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u124	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President and Minister absent, my question is addressed to activists Patrik Tušl and Tomáš Čermák, who have been in custody for almost three months for filming a video placed on Facebook, where they criticized Ukrainian asylumants in the Czech Republic and called for protests in the demonstration of Ukrajinec called for 24 days. 8. in Prague. This video, which was described as a crime of defamation of a nation, race, ethnic or other group of persons and incitement to hatred against a group of persons or to restrict their rights and freedoms, was held on 26. 10. 2022 sentenced by the District Court in Kladno to unconditional sentences. Both accusations are considered innocent and point out that during the reign of Andrej Babiš, similar statements could still be said with impunity, as far as possible being dealt with as a violation, and only after the reign of Petr Fiala began to criminalize opposition activists for their political views. Patrik Tušl claims that he was bullied and humiliated in the prison of Prague - Ruzyn by the Peacekeepers, for no reason locked in a solitary cell in an unheated room, where he said it was about 5 degrees. He said he was in solitary once because he asked to see a psychologist. He was therefore transferred to a prison hospital in Pankrác and his condition is getting worse. It must be acknowledged that the statements made by the two defendants were inappropriate and rude, but they are still covered by the freedom of expression guaranteed by constitutional order, in particular by Art. 17 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. It is therefore necessary to interpret the provisions of the Penal Code limiting the freedom of interpretation in a restrictive, rather than expanding manner, which is also contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Do you consider unconditional punishments to be verbal statements adequate? In this case, are you considering applying an extraordinary appeal to a law violation at your disposal as Minister? [[Time.]] You're gonna let them investigate the treatment of both prisoners in prison? How is it supervised by their medical condition? [[Time, please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u125	I'm really gonna ask for time. And now, Mr Lukáš Vlček, Mr Richard Brabec, will prepare himself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u126	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I would like Rakušan follow up on the previous debate on the state budget, the consolidation of public finances and operating expenditure of the state, and my question is, what will it look like at the Ministry of the Interior in Vít, Minister, the systemization of service and jobs, and what impact will it have on the budget of the Czech Republic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u127	Thank you and now the room for the Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u128	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I thank my colleague Vlček for the interpelation, because here at this point, I think there's something to be said about yesterday's debate. Yes, at the Ministry of the Interior after the beginning of the Ukrainian migration crisis, when we had to cope with the surges that were in tens of thousands of people coming to the Czech Republic in a short period of time, when we set up Regional Assistance Centres to help Ukraine, so, yes, in hundreds, mostly on agreement, we set up asylum and migration policies under the trade union, because we would not have managed otherwise. This is to pass out in a political debate for some waste of state resources, for some thrill and increase of people in public administration, is simply falseness and in a debate literally and into the letter meanness, because those people, and there were about 300 of them, worked to make the regions, cities, municipalities and state as such manage to accept and even register and put into the system all those who came from Ukraine. I would really like to call on opposition colleagues to a very sophisticated debate and to a real analysis of numbers as such. Just counting 300 people on a deal that only cared about hiring migrants, for a thrill, and the fact that this government accepts people in government for free is just unfair argument. Other numbers as such - the Ministry of Interior will cancel 236 seats on 1 January 2023 and again: no, they are not places that should cross the DIA, they are places that are not related to the DIA at all, and these 236 seats are not just some long-term vacancy, but they are 98 places that really existed and we have evaluated them as redundant within the performance of the agenda, which means that 98 officials in the Ministry of the Interior are actually reducing the number of employees. And, of course, we're cutting off the long-term vacant seats that are here at this time. Of course, we will be gradually taking up positions in the asylum and migration policy department - that does not mean that what we increased in the first phase of the Ukrainian crisis, that these places are stabilized forever and ever. So I would just like to say that this was a temporary measure, and this will be reflected in the next steps of systemization. The reduction of systemized sites at this time will cover the deficit of CZK 60 million in salaries for 2023. We need to realize here that, of course, we will have more resources to reward the high-quality officials who work at the Ministry of the Interior. We canceled 4 seats without compensation at the subordinate service offices. And, as has been said, those places that are in the asylum and migration policy department, so 63 will be covered by European Union funds and will have no impact on the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, no impact on the state budget. [[17.10 hours]] So, please, once again, we haven't accepted a single new official at the Home Office, 98 seats canceled, living places. In addition, we have crossed over 100 vacant posts, and the added ones concerned only the work of the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy in connection with the Ukrainian migration crisis. These are substantiated facts and I would like us to use the facts in our parliamentary debate as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u129	Thank you. I'm not interested in the supplementary question, so we're going to have another interview, but I'm going to load an apology earlier. Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes at 17 o'clock for work reasons. And now, please, the room for a Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, and that is an unfortunate coincidence, because it was my director's minister, but since I'm here, I'm going to ask him something from a distance. No, Mr. Jurečka and I had a discussion, and I understand the reason. Then I'll withdraw the other two interpelations and leave them when either him or some successor is present. But as for my interpelation, it concerns the Czech Switzerland National Park and the catastrophic fire, it is true, which destroyed a large part or a significant part of the national park in July and August this year. And I wanted to ask the Minister if there would be enough money in the national park budget, or the Ministry of the Environment, to restore the park, because I didn't find any extra money in the budget. And the other important thing is that the renewal means, among other things, the possibility of reopening the gorge of the Kamenice River. These gorges are a key tourist attraction of the Ústí Region and, among other things, an important source of finance for the municipality of Hřensko. There is a whole range of steps to be taken, not only cutting down trees, but also carrying out a geological survey of the surrounding rocks in order to ensure safety, and of course this will take some time. So I wanted to ask how quickly these steps should take place, because the gorge should be opened, if I'm right, in April next year, which is relatively soon, and the question is whether it will happen this quickly. And I'm sure I'd put in a good word to make those steps as quick as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u131	Thank you, too, and as I read, the Minister is excused, he will reply in writing within 30 days. With further apologies, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura has been apologizing since 5:30 p.m. for medical reasons. And now we are going to interpel Mr. Drahoslav Ryba. Mr Petr Sadovský will be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u132	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. In my interpelation, I will allow myself to interpel here Minister Kupka and in my interpelation I am returning to the recent Civil Aviation Act here, where I had my amendment and we discussed with the Minister whether the government proposed amendment to the Act would allow intervention on all interventions where human life needs to be saved, if it would allow the use of drones. On the basis of the information he had in particular from the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister thought he would, yes, allow intervention in all interventions where people's lives were saved. I didn't. I think that this also affected how my amendment was further voted on. I have therefore requested the legal opinion of the factual guarantor of the Fire Rescue and Fire Protection Act Act, which is dealing with what falls under the so-called basic task of the Fire Rescue and Under the so-called emergency laws. That opinion has given me the truth that there are many interventions that will not fall under the exception to the amendment of the law. And as it turns out, if the law used a drone in the event of an extraordinary task, we saw recently when the Civil Aviation Authority fined a helicopter pilot in Høensk. He gave it right because it comes out of the law. Now I have three questions on these questions: Who specifically gave a clearly incorrect dissenting opinion and whether the Minister has them in writing, can he give it to me? The Minister stated in his speech that he was communicating with the Ministry of the Interior during the negotiations, so again I would like to ask who he was communicating with specifically? And the third question is, what and when does the Minister intend to do to correct this mistake and potentially, or could not, therefore, die in the intervention of the people. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u133	Thank you. And now for the reaction of the Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond in a kind way, but I will certainly not go on an undignified game to say, as we experienced some time ago, "Don't be polite, say names! I believe that there have been several specific debates between the Departments of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior as well as during the discussion of the said opinion, several specific discussions. I have, of course, and I will be happy to hand them over to you, and to give you opinions and consent to the modification as approved in the Chamber of Deputies, both from the Police of the Czech Republic and from the Fire Rescue Corps and from the Ministry of the Interior itself. I also want to repeat what's going on here on this occasion. On the basis of the negotiations with the Ministry of the Interior, the Fire Rescue Corps and the Police of the Czech Republic, we have also agreed to an adjustment that enables the Fire Rescue Corps to ensure and tolerate departures to the extent necessary from the rules of flying, where several public interests meet here. Similarly, the protection of the safety of persons, but also property because of, for example, uncoordinated airspace traffic, means simply one of the important parameters, one of the important aspects that the state must protect, and there has been simply a search for a good compromise, given that we have found a consensus from all the institutions concerned, for the final solution. We think it's okay as the Department of Transport. However, also from today's discussion with the General Director of the Fire Rescue Corps, I know that there will be another meeting with the Director of the Civil Aviation Authority in order to chart whether it is really, when, in the current form of the Civil Aviation Act, it is therefore possible to deviate from the rules of flying to the strictly necessary extent, so that it really applies to those basic tasks, which is the protection of the lives and health of the population, the environment, animals, property from fires and other extraordinary events and crisis situations, that this really covers most of the interventions. If we really discuss individual situations at that point, it will undoubtedly be possible to deviate from those rules at moments such as intervention in large-scale fires, as was the case in Hřensko, for example. However, this will undoubtedly also mean intervention in the recovery process and, if necessary, in monitoring, because even in the monitoring process it is quite obvious that the Fire Rescue Corps protects property and the health of persons at a time when this is clearly indicated from many experiences and professional procedures. I believe that these are all specific situations and specific cases that we are changing the law to which we have a clear consensus in this respect of all the departments concerned, but also the files, so we are really covering it. At the same time, but because we are following the same plan, if there were any other law uncovered situation that we need for the Fire Rescue Corps to remove from the rules of flight, movement in airspace, and it would also be acceptable for the Police of the Czech Republic, which moves in the airspace on a routine basis and, of course, comments on those interventions, because it is often the one who coordinates, as in the case of Hřensko, as in the case of the Fire Rescue Corps. The reasons are good and justified. [[17.20 hours]] And if there's a consensus here that something like this still needs to be treated, I'm really ready for further intervention in the Civil Aviation Act to put in such an exception. But I don't think there's any evil will on either of us to prevent further justified intervention or a justified exception. It is clear that the individual institutions were looking for a reasonable compromise, and I, even after the negotiations, and after searching for an answer to your intervention, believe that the institutions found it. But I am also open to this on the basis of the above-mentioned comment regarding the negotiations, if necessary, to return to this. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u135	Thank you and I see an interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u136	Minister, I certainly did not mean any dishonesty, but rather I wanted to look into the person who gave the positions that were clearly wrong. That's the first thing. Second thing. You're absolutely right, and I agree with you that most of the interventions we do, we do according to the law, and we do them on the basis of the so-called basic task. But then there's a series of hits that we do as an extraordinary task. Let me give you an example - a field search where a child or a grandmother, for example, is lost. That's not our job anymore. If it's about saving a man's life there, we can't use those drones for this anymore. And I think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u137	Thank you, and I ask if the Minister is interested in a reaction? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u138	The Ministry of Transport is, of course, not the authority to interpret relevant component laws in the protection of persons, health and property under the relevant law on the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, I believe that the interpretation that appears in our Civil Aviation Act, where there is a reference to really fundamental tasks, which is the protection of the lives and health of the population, the environment, animals, property from fires and other extraordinary events and crisis situations, so I believe, after common sense, that at the moment when firefighters would deploy drones, when it is a precisely indicated event - in the case of the search for persons lost - it would undoubtedly be covered by our Civil Aviation Act and there would not be any offence, there would undoubtedly be any penalty. As for this example from Hřensko, I cannot give any more accurate information there, or the procedure is under way. And since there really has been a violation of the law, there will undoubtedly be some decision about the amount of sanctions that will, for example, be or how it will be concluded in the finals, but I am not able to anticipate it. But I note that according to the information available to us at the moment, there has indeed been a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u139	Thank you and I will re-read the apologies received: Mr Michael Kohajda apologizes from 12.40 to 17.20 hours for health reasons and Mr Karel Tureček from 17 o'clock for health reasons. And we are now going to interpel Mr Petr Sadovský and prepare Mrs Jana Hanzlíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister... Hello! [[Minister Kupka, who speaks to Mr Ryba in the bench, but after being addressed with a smile he claims to be listening.]] Thank you. The following information has appeared in the media: Germany will introduce an affordable German-wide ticket for regional and urban public transport from April next year. As we know, the ticket will cost 49 euros per month, which is about 1,200 crowns. It should make it significantly cheaper and easier to travel especially to those commuting to work and schools. The new ticket will be easier and will be the successor of what they have in Germany, a 9-euro ticket. The German government introduced it this year as an anti-inflationary relief for three months from June to August. The monthly ticket for CZK 220 became a hit in Germany and the German chancellor considers it one of the best measures of his government. On the contrary, our discounts were cancelled - not completely cancelled, but reduced. Will you be happy to tell me if you plan to introduce something like this in our country? I understand that you will now read to me what discounts we have, how many we have, but I am asking specifically about the Czech ticket, which will be for regional and urban public transport. I note that, in relation to the environment, I think that such a step would be appropriate from the Ministry. And I just want to hear a yes or no from you, if that's what you're planning. All I need is an answer like that, it doesn't have to be completely extensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u141	Thank you and now space for an answer within 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we, too, have actually embarked on an adjustment of existing systems with the Association of Regions in order to achieve a modern uniform ticket. I note that at the moment we have a single ticket that works in all rail transport. It managed to obtain most of the personal carriers. It is, of course, a reflection of the tariff policy of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic, it is, of course, more expensive than the 9 euro. If I were to comment on the 9 euro discount, we also know the shadows of the step, when the 9 euro ticket really meant quite a discomfort for a number of regular passengers in the summer months. But it must also be said that the German government cost €2.5 billion, which is equivalent to CZK 62 billion, and the Czech budget would certainly not reach this. By the way, for this year's already reduced discount originally in the budget of the Czech Republic approved by the previous government, only CZK 2.5 billion were reserved. It turned out during the course of the year that if we had stayed with the previous discounts - at 75 percent - it would have meant that this year we would have undoubtedly gotten more than CZK 6 billion in necessary spending, because the public had returned to the means of transport. The fact that discounts have been reduced to 50 percent of 75 percent - I will stress, however, that we have extended discounts to a third-degree disability group which has not yet been subject to discounts, and in this case it is undoubtedly a good address aid, because this group of passengers has, of course, a whole range of difficulties, including increased spending on their life needs, so I dare say here that the Czech Republic has certainly gone in the right direction. To get back to where to go, because of course this is about permanent, systematic support for public transport and at the same time setting up systems so that it can be provided not only in rail transport, but also in case of transfers from bus to rail transport, a simple way of charging. It works at the moment in most regions where it is possible to change between fashions and where it is possible to pay for either monthly or annual ticket. Unfortunately, even the individual regional tariffs or regional systems are not compatible. The connection of the Central Bohemia and Prague integrated system, where it is really possible from individual places of the Central Bohemia Region, whether using buses or trains, to get to the center of Prague for example. It was undoubtedly appropriate. And it also turned out that the unification of the ticking, the unification of the ticket had a positive effect on the impact on the use of public transport. [[17.30 hours]] The direct answer to your question is whether we are considering something like this - more than that, we have already opened negotiations with the Association of Regions and with individual regions a debate on how to organise this better in the future. It will mean solving the problem of clearing centres, which could cope with the reimbursement of transport performance, dealing with it between individual carriers, but also between systems, because twenty years of the Czech region - and it is a good thing - have developed their integrated systems. They put invention, a lot of money, and they tried to make regional transport, a daily commute to work, work as best as possible within their regions. The Ministry of Transport, as I said, added a uniform ticket for the whole Czech Republic, but to the railway. Our resolution for the future must be clearly such at one table, without denying individual regional integrated systems, find some connection and find it at the same time so that the Czech budget can bear it. Of course, even in the case of Germany, this meant a single Treasury, and even the 49-euro ticket will mean a huge expense, because the funds will travel to both carriers and individual regions. But I give the truth not only to you, but to all those who look forward to the future, with the fact that it is a good idea to introduce the possibility of a single fare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u143	Thank you and, of course, your space for an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for such an answer. I am pleased that the Ministry has agreed to deal with this nationwide ticket to facilitate travel, not only to elderly people, disabled people, pupils, but more or less to everyone, and I will be on my guard and watch as the Ministry is working on it. And if I don't think so, I'm sure we'll meet here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u145	Thank you. And now we can... [[The Minister gestures.]] You want to react. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u146	I take that as a challenge, not a threat. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And I want to make it clear in this regard that with all the regions, because without the regions, this cannot be done, and you mentioned that, of course, it would be ideal if public public transport could also be involved, which is once again a level higher requirement, because at that time it really means ensuring such a quality agreement between all the actors and creating such a robust system and clearing, so that it does not ultimately mean that money is exhausted, for example, on the side of the regions, where traffic performance is the largest, or on the side of a state whose cash register is simply not infinite and cannot be infinite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u147	Thank you and another in the order of interpellation by Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, whom I do not see in the hall, so this interpellation is failing. And we are going to interpel Mr Roman Kubíček and prepare to interpel Mr Lubomír Metnar. But Mr. Kubíček is not in the hall either, he is under interpelling. [[Voice from the diaper: Run, run.]] And we are going to interpel Mr Lubomír Metnar, Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u148	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I'm being approached by the staff of the Military Technical Institute with questions about what's going on in their business, why people who were standing by the rise of a state enterprise have been recalled from one day to the next. The Military Technical Institute is complex and very important for carrying out tasks for the Army of the Czech Republic. At the same time, the company is in very good economic condition for the long term. At present, and especially in view of the international security situation, these changes certainly do not contribute to the stability of this state enterprise, which has a significant share in solving strategic projects for the Army of the Czech Republic, including in the field of air defense. 6. This year's 12th Defence Committee, which has on the agenda a meeting item called Information on personnel changes in the management of state-owned enterprises established by the Ministry of Defence. When I wanted to ask you about the reasons for the appeal of the Director of the Military Technical Institute, given that you are on a foreign trip, I do so through this interpelation. I am interested in the reasons which have led to these sudden changes, and what circumstances have preceded these decisions and whether this will have no impact on the projects implemented by this undertaking. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u149	Thank you for keeping time. Madam Secretary is excused and the answer will come within 30 days. We are now going to interpel Mr Hubert Lang and prepare Mr Jiří Navrátil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u150	Thank you, Madam President. The minister may be surprised, but I would like to look for a solution in one of my interventions. I'm glad he's here, I have to say he's going to the Security Committee, and although we often disagree, at least we listen to each other. Minister, I would like to ask whether the police, or the Ministry of the Interior, are looking for a system solution, because we know that what is the solution concerning migration, the protection of the external Schengen border, even if we are sending police officers there and we are trying to prevent migration pressure, is very ineffective since 2015 and probably not even by the end of our Presidency, nor in the near future will this be resolved. [[Unintelligible.]] I'm saying this in connection with the fact that we're 29. 9. They re-established control on the Czech-Slovak state border, for which I also thanked that we acknowledged it and pointed it out to the Security Committee, that it happened. And my point is whether the police or you or the Ministry of the Interior are preparing some solution to continue, because today we have, in essence, a re-established control at the national borders between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. We know it's cost us about 300 million today, the measures. This is not an entirely small amount in connection with the budget, where we need CZK 100 million to cover the civil salaries of firefighters and we are hardly looking for them in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. We know that we need 80 soldiers for one shift, 210 police officers, 40 customs officers and so on. We are, or I have at least offered several times whether it would be worth considering, for example, the introduction of a foreign police service as a line unit, or possibly strengthening a department on the Czech-Slovak border, which is probably the most burdened for us, for example, by strengthening performance, by creating local departments for example some groups that would be there so that those policemen would not have to commute there, because it costs us... First of all, it's non-systemic, they don't have local knowledge, they don't have terrain knowledge, we lack those people in the service somewhere else, and I think it's worth considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u151	Thank you and now with the response of the Minister of the Interior and Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u152	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, and thank you for the clear, factually formulated interpellation to Mr Lang, and I see his view of the situation similarly. We often disagree with each other, but we often listen to each other, and I have to say here that we are also able to hear the opposition's views on the Security Committee, such as giving an exit order within 7 days, that was definitely a point that was factual, and we later implemented it after consulting the police president and the police leadership, as well as the measure in question. Systemic measures within the framework of the temporary reintegration of controls at the internal border with the Slovak Republic are ensured by the performance of the service in places intended for crossing the border and on the so-called green state border, especially the police of the Regional Directorates of the South Moravian Region, Zlínský, Moravian-Silesian Region, are strengthened by other Regional Directorates and logically also the Directorate of the Services of the Foreign Police, which you mentioned. As you know, the members of the Army of the Czech Republic and the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic have also been called up to carry out the tasks of the Police of the Czech Republic and are therefore also deployed within the framework of border measures with the Slovak Republic. The situation - and I can get to the merit of your question - is better in numbers. The figures on the Western Balkan route have been dropping in recent weeks. I will not now pretend that this is just some genius of the measures taken, it is also in the logic that winter months are here, but at the same time we have managed to achieve visa harmonisation at European level, in the case of Serbia with three countries and other countries of the Western Balkans, and they have announced that visa harmonisation, so important for the reduction of the number in the Western Balkan route, will take place by mid-2023. We are so committed to a memorandum from a conference in Tirana. [[17.40 hours]] Why am I saying all this? Because, of course, we hope that effective measures will reduce the numbers of incoming Western Balkan routes, and we also hope that the re-established control at the internal border with Slovakia, with our closest neighbour, the neighbour to whom we have the closest personal relationships, will be a temporary solution that we will certainly not leave those controls there forever and certainly do not want to gamble with the Schengen Borders Code to violate its rules. Some states, I admit, have demonstrated this, they have left those borders long-term, and it is subject to judicial review. We know what we are talking about - the Slovenian-Austrian and German-Austrian borders - but we, as the Czech Republic, would certainly not want to go this way. At the same time, of course, we also want to strengthen our representation within Frontex and the protection of external borders, where we also encourage other states within the Presidency to increase the number of their officers to protect the external borders. In agreement with Slovakia, we were able to achieve that the Slovák also sent a 40-member contingent on the Hungarian-Serbian border, where the Slovák had not been represented until then, which is certainly also an effective measure. I am based on an internal analysis of the Police of the Czech Republic, which says that the current organization of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Services of the Foreign Police is satisfactory for the performance of the service and that even the extraordinary measures that are currently running in some way do not threaten the ability of the Police of the Czech Republic to perform its duties throughout the Czech Republic. I am, of course, aware of your long-standing objection, through Madam President. I'm sure it's a topic for discussion. I'm sure we want to occupy vacant police posts, which will run on a long track. We did it for the first time this year with firefighters, there are more and more vacant places in the police, but so far we remain with the division of police units and with the whole republical scope, as set up by the organizational order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u153	I also thank you and now the room for additional questions. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u154	Thank you. In that first part, I think we're in agreement. We can talk about some details of how we'd do it and stuff like that. In the second part, we don't agree there, because I really think that if we were to separate the formation, so that we could save ourselves in general, whether STAN would simply rule, or maybe someone else would be in power over a period of time, we would just make it easy on ourselves. I would just end my performance by wanting to return to the interview number 14, which was presented here by colleague Vlček Lukáš, who is a Member for STAN. This means, interestingly, that in the intercessions that I see for opposition Members to comment on the government, a government member who is actually intersecting his party colleague, the Minister, is going to ask him a question, such a nice one. In fact, the Minister then responds completely to us, as if to the opposition. That means, the government MP, he doesn't care anymore, and in his essence, he's been mentoring our shadow minister, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, who hasn't been here and can't defend herself. Well, I'd just like to say it was so weird. And thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u155	Thank you for keeping time and room for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u156	Mr colleague, through the Vice-President, lying is not meant to be and certainly not - I am saying this to myself, so I am not going to lie to you, and of course there are such tools as to allow my own Members to ask you something. After all, we have also spent the last term of office here, when there was a completely different assembly and questions were raised by Members of your parliamentary club, through Madam President, on your then Prime Minister. And at the time of some inconvenience, such questions were not enough. There was a little question today by one of our party colleagues, who I'm sure I used to explain some misinterpretations that appeared in yesterday's debate on the state budget. But I have certainly spoken to my colleague, and you have listened carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u157	Thank you. And now I will read a number of apologies in the meantime: Mr Jiří Carbol apologizes from 18:00 for business reasons, Jaroslav Faltýnek from 18:00 for business reasons, Mrs Ivana Mádlová from 18:00 for business reasons, Lubomír Metnar from 18:00 for business reasons, Alena Schillerová from 15:00 for business reasons. That was an apology. We will proceed to another interpellation by Mr Jiří Navrátil, who I do not see in the hall, so the interpellation is failing. Next up is Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mrs Karla Maříková will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I'm actually here for nothing. We have oral interpelations, it turns out I'll be answered in writing, so that's why we have written interpelations. So when the minister here says, when he's blamed for not attending, he doesn't hesitate to participate in the rank of MP. Now we have oral interpelations for ministers. The minister knows he's going to be intersected, and he's not here, so it's kind of losing sense. If I want to interpel in writing, I will interpel in writing. I wanted to ask him about his words about extending retirement. I wanted to ask him if he could really imagine, at such an advanced age, a mason who throws a house or a driver of a long-distance bus, who is expected to have some physical and mental condition, whether he would actually entrust his life to these people in these professions. So, of course, I will interpelate verbally once the Minister is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u159	It's your right, Mr. Ambassador. I'm just making sure you don't have to be sent a written reply? [[No.]] No. And we will proceed to an interview by Mrs Karla Maříková, and Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u160	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent minister, the Supreme Audit Office has checked the activities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs concerning the process of allocating money from the state budget and from the European Union funds to support family policy and has concluded that representatives of the Ministry often did not have an overview of how the money really helped the families in need. In most cases, the number of supported citizens has been monitored, not the quality and really the benefit of the support. Mr. Minister, your ministry is allocating money to support families, but you don't even know if the help actually works. Are you really serious that this is how it works? What will you do to change the way you operate in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u161	Thank you, Madame. Once again, the Minister is excused, you will be answered. And I have also run out of information that I think is good to say that the currently excused Minister in the Senate is in plenary, that these are the working reasons. We are now going to interpel Mrs Lenka Knechtová and prepare Mr Hubert Lang. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u162	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, is the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports preparing new challenges for NGOs working with children and youth in the form of so-called templates, which is extremely simplistic for small organisations? I ask about new possibilities since 2023 and subsequently to obtain funds mainly from the EU budget, the Operational Programme Research, Development and Education. It is appropriate that support for education should not only go to institutions registered in the school register but also to organisations working with children and young people outside the school. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u163	Thank you for this interpelation. We will go to the next one because the Minister is excused here too, and the answer will come in writing. It is now Mr Hubert Lang's turn to prepare Mr Zdeněk Kettner. Please, you have plenty of room today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u164	Madam President, I had no idea that this would take place so quickly. I am glad, of course, because I like to discuss with the Minister, and the time period is very short. I'd like to continue my interpellation here, which will partly follow up on my previous interpellation. We are still talking about re-establishing controls on the Czech-Slovak state border. I fully respect that, of course, in the framework of Schengen, it is uncomfortable to carry out these checks in the long term from the perspective of Czech citizens and Slovak citizens, it is burdening everyone in some way, it is clear, and I also understand why this has been brought about, actually, with the strong migration crisis. We've said here that it's cost us 300 million crowns. I didn't actually get an answer in the previous answer to how much the Ministry of the Interior expects the total amount to be, and if we continue this after New Year's. That would be one of my questions. [[17.50 hours]] And then I would like to ask you that we also appealed that we actually had a somewhat ineffective treaty between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on international police cooperation, if this had been progressed in any way, if in any way the relations that were such that Slovak colleagues did not know about it, even though it was explained several times afterwards, I would like to ask you this question. And I would like to ask if there is any need for a replacement, some reimbursement, or not only from our state budget to re-establish checks at national borders, but also from some EU funds. And the last question in this section: will we send a certain number, the contingent of policemen, actually to protect the external Schengen border? From our point of view, it seems to me that the number of police officers is quite low. So that's about three questions I have for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u165	Thank you, even for keeping time. Now there is room for the reaction of Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u166	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I, my colleague, through Madam Vice-President, had no idea it was going to be one man show. I don't want to offend my colleague Kupka, he's also involved. However, it goes on, yes, faster than we expected. Anyway, let's do it. I'll try to be brief this time. As far as the new police cooperation agreement is concerned, teams are being set up, it should be completed next year, and I hope, for example, during the first third, quarter of next year, we have also agreed with the Slovak Minister. And you're right, the biggest problem that really occurred to us there, and again quite frankly, was that when our police officers on the train, which stopped at the first station in the Czech Republic, caught migrants who apparently and provenly came from the territory of the Slovak Republic, they reported a request for readmis to the Slovak side and reported the time of handover to the Czech-Slovak border. And if it simply didn't occur that the Slovak police were present there, they didn't respond completely to the readmis, then at that point those people were simply at the border of the Czech and Slovak Republics, so let them return to the Slovak side. This, of course, aroused the displeasure of the Slovak party and we had fun at the meeting of the premieres and ministers of the interior, and we came up with a concrete proposal, let us check trains by common Slovak-Czech patrols, which makes the cross-border cooperation agreement possible, already on the Slovak side. This means that these people will not reach the Czech Republic at all and Slovak police are already in control of them in cooperation with the Czech police on their side. This was an essential measure which also led to the reduction of people who would enter the Czech Republic at all, and to a significant reduction in the need for readymises. If we look at the first weeks, we've had seizures in hundreds of illegal migrants a day, today we've got them in units or in low tens. Firstly, it is an objective drop in pressure on the western Balkan migration route, and secondly, it is this effective measure that we have here. Those EU funds, that's a good point, thank you for that. We have now also discussed this at a meeting at the Council of Ministers of the Interior in Brussels, when a request was made for Austria, Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, so that these migration measures can also be reimbursed from the European Union's resources, because migration is simply a pan-European problem, and every deployment of such resources is a measure that protects not only the specific state but protects the other states of the European Union. So we have presented our regional position, which we have united with our colleagues for a joint working breakfast here in Prague, and we will try to get to it. Funds - in the period from 29. 9. to 12. 12. is the total amount of CZK 291 755 000, of which wage costs are 244 million, the other operating expenses are 48 million. As I have already announced, I will go to the government on December 7 with a request to extend these measures for 30 days, which allows us the Schengen Code - he does not allow us to ask for more than 30 days, at which time we must check. This means that the costs will certainly still be added to this on 10 to 12 January, but in the meantime, we will actually work on getting to European resources and can be bailed out from European sources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u167	Thank you. Now, with additional questions or questions, Mr Hubert Lang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your explanation. After all, Minister, I would have two further questions, such a short one, because time is coming. I would like to ask you: well, we have a 30-day extension, and I wanted to ask you a question about what to do next. I'm there, if I could suggest to you, it might be worth going to some random after, I hope, that some sort of Home Office style, or the police are thinking, that means, we probably wouldn't be holding on to the tight control anymore, but the randomness is often very effective, because we don't really know where the cops are going to show up and where they're going to catch the cases. And I wanted to ask if, within our Presidency, you have made every effort - although I know that you have done something about it - if there would be any places in Syria that would become safe parts of that country, because we know that the vast majority of incoming and those problems in Europe, not only in our country, but also in Austria, Germany and beyond in the West, are Syřan. And Syria, as you said today, is -- these people are inexcusable, even if they get a restraining order and a restraining order, so it's just inexcusable to that country because there's a war. Did you take any steps into a secure area?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u169	Thank you. I beg your response, this will be the last reaction of the Minister at this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u170	Yes, thank you for asking. Here we have a complete match. There's a scenario coming up, as you just mentioned, random checks, which means replacing the constant ones with some randomness. After all, although I am asking for an extension of 30 days, we are planning to reduce the regime through Christmas holidays for cross-border contact, especially for Czech and Slovak citizens, among families, there will certainly be an increase in traffic in this regard and we do not want to bother Slovak and Czech citizens, we simply want to face illegal migration. And then a note about what was done in the matter. One thing that is not directly the answer to your question is the important step that we are discussing is to define the possibilities of readmises from the target country to the first country of accession of the European Union. This is mainly the problem of Austria, it is a matter that the Austrian Minister deals with very consistently. They have about 70,000 asylum seekers and what he wants these people to do, if not in Syria, such an eternal question as to what to do with them, could be returned to the country where they entered Europe, and it is a country outside the European Union, which is also an effective measure and will push the countries of the Western Balkans to really try to resolve the situation. And, of course, at the level of the European Union and Commissioner Johansson, negotiations have been conducted with Syria, but so far there is no concrete result in some defined safe area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u171	Thank you so much for keeping time. I note that it is no longer possible, according to the Rules of Procedure, to give further interpelations, so we have concluded today's discussion of these oral interventions, and since the opposition window begins at 18 o'clock, I am interrupting the meeting for two minutes, and I am saying goodbye at the same time and passing on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-01-ps2021-045-06-003-168.u172	Good evening. We'll continue to discuss points for tonight's meeting. The opposition window has been included since 6:00 p.m. and we are on the agenda.
