ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on further measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops and on the amendment of other laws in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops /German press 221/ - shortened negotiations According to § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions were for... Quiet in the hall, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, thank you. Should we first consider whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations, or am I opening up a debate at the moment and asking if anyone is joining the debate? I don't see anyone. So if they do not report, I am done with the debate and we can proceed to the vote. I'm gonna sing. In the meantime, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill on further measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops and the amendment of other laws in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 221, in the accelerated negotiations." And I see an application for check-out. I beg you to sign up. [[15.40 hours]] And we are before the vote on the motion for a resolution that I just read. I therefore initiate the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 20, registered 162, for 160, versus 1. Result: accepted. So I am now opening up the Government's bill on further measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops and on the amendment of other laws in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 221, we are in a brief hearing. [[A Member of the Excellent shall be given the floor.]] I see a priority right here, but I have a priority right here for the President Okamura who has already signed up, and we have agreed that the Minister would speak first, so whether it is only for the vote? [[Member Excellent: No, it's not for the vote, it's procedural.]] President Okamura is here first, so please agree... Yes, you have a deal. Well, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your helpfulness to President Okamur. I would just like to put this point to a preliminary vote that, as we discussed at the meeting of today's Gremium, we would be negotiating today. So let us vote that we will discuss it and vote after 19 o'clock, in an emergency even after 21 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u3	Yes, thank you, so we have a procedural vote. I'm the one who got the bang. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered is 167, for 99 against 6. Result: accepted. I will now ask the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, to take the floor. I'll ask everyone in the room to keep their voice down. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will comment very briefly on the proposal of Lex Ukraine II, otherwise the Government Bill on further measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops. The Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with ministries of foreign affairs, health, work and social affairs, education, youth and sports, has prepared a proposal aimed, among other things, at enabling representative offices not to accept requests from citizens of Russia and Belarus for residence permits in our territory even after the emergency has ended. However, the government will be able to provide specific exceptions from this general rule - family members of citizens of the Czech Republic, stay in the Czech Republic in the public interest and so on. Another part of the changes is the amendment of Act No. 65/2022 Coll., where the reasons for the unacceptable application for temporary protection, such as citizenship of a Member State of the European Union, are widened. The period for processing the application for temporary protection shall be extended to 60 days. The legal reasons for the temporary protection being terminated, such as when granted in another Member State of the European Union, are widened. Or there is an obligation for Ukrainian refugees to report changes to stay more than 15 days within a period of 3 working days. The Ministry of the Interior will also gain new competence to disturb the whereabouts of the reported residence if it is found that a foreigner is not staying here. A considerable part of this law is the amendment of the resolution on health insurance. It is proposed to shorten the period for which the State pays health insurance for foreigners with temporary protection for a period of 160 days from the start of temporary protection. The aim is to motivate these insured people to become involved in the work process, which, by the way, is doing well. According to the latest figures today, 64,000 incoming from Ukraine are already involved in the work process. In response to the inter-ministerial comment procedure, the proposal was extended by the amendment of Act No. 66/2002 Sb., where changes are proposed in relation to the humanitarian levy and contribution to the solidarity household. The general rule will now apply that the humanitarian benefit will not be paid in cases where refugees have free accommodation, where they are provided free of charge with food, basic sanitary facilities and the like. In addition, when paying the benefit, it will be examined whether the refugees are actually staying on our territory. In the case of a solidarity contribution, space shall be created to reflect the amount of the contribution as to whether it is a shared household or whether the accommodated persons have the whole apartment on their own, and in such cases a higher contribution may be established. The proposal also reflects the requirement of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to supplement the amendment of Act No. 67/2002 Sb., measures in the field of education, which address the social welfare of kindergartens and schools in cases where there is a cancellation of the place of residence of children from Ukraine in registration systems on the basis of information that they are not located at the registered address. In view of the urgent need to address this situation, it is proposed without delay to discuss the draft law in a state of legislative emergency. The effectiveness of the bill is proposed on the day following its publication. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister. Given that the Security Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, has discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press Žáček1, please inform us about the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. I will interpret you here, and I will introduce you to the resolution we adopted on today's Security Committee, which was ordered by the President of the Chamber of Deputies until 12 o'clock today. So the resolution of the Security Committee of the 12th meeting of 31 May on the Government Bill and so on, House print number 221, which is being discussed in a state of legislative emergency: "Secretary of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Management of the Department of Legal and Consular Affairs Martin Smolek, Police President Martin Vondrášek, General Director of the Fire Rescue Corps, Lieutenant General Vladimír Vlček, Director of the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Defence Pavla Novotná, following the report of the Chairman and rapporteur of the Committee of Pavel Žáček and following a general and detailed debate: I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 19 no later than today, i.e. 31 May 2022; IV. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government's bill, House's print number 221; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Committee's opinion" - this is what I am doing; "VI. further empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments.'; By being somewhat bound by the deadline, I must say that criticism was made from the mouth of certain colleagues that there was not enough time. I believe that some of these arguments will reappear here in plenary and we will be able to deal with them. However, I must say - and thank you for this to my colleagues - that the Security Committee has dealt with this task from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, as the President predicted. [[15.50 hours]] And the latest intel. They have not been applied to the committee, no amendments have been tabled, with probably some of them being tabled at second reading here at plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. And since the House may decide that from the general debate, I note the general, in the second reading of the bill it can drop, we must now decide whether we will also hold a general debate. So I will engage and just repeat, we will vote on whether we will also have a general debate. I see there's an interest in signing off. We can all sign up. Once again, I repeat for those who have come here that we will be deciding at this point whether we will have a general debate at second reading. If we approve the general debate, there will be a detailed debate right after it. I am opening the vote on whether we will hold a general debate. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 22, registered 128, for was 125, versus 1. Result: accepted. So I am opening up a general debate where we have several priority applications. Mr Okamura has been the first to sign up in writing, and then Vice-President Kovářová and then Vice-President Vildumetzová are here. Well, I beg President Okamura to take his word for it. And, please, the others, if they could have a discussion in front of the main hall. Thank you. And, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite obvious that the government of Petr Fiala, due to the lack of a functioning strategy, does not manage migration from Ukraine after three months. And the inadaptable migrants are being deployed by the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan from the STAN movement into communities against the will of local residents. The government here very lately, and only on the basis of the opposition's pressure, wants to discuss and approve, in the so-called state of legislative emergency, an amendment to the law on the residence of refugees from Ukraine in our territory, the so-called Lex Ukraine. As part of this amendment, the SPD will support, for example, the idea of a complete refusal of temporary protection in our territory to citizens of the European Union, such as those Rom with Hungarian passports, a shortening of the time to report a change in refugee residence or the end of payment of humanitarian benefits to refugees who have State-paid accommodation and meals. This amendment comes very late on the part of the government and doesn't even solve... [[Mr Koloverstvík is speaking with Minister Austrian.]] Can I please... This amendment comes very late on the part of the government and does not solve the main problems of the impact of the refugee wave on our citizens caused to a decisive extent by the current government procedure. The Ministry of Interior, headed by Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement and the leadership of the capital city of Prague, where the coalition of Pirates, STAN, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL rules, for example, continue to deploy inadaptable Ukrainian migrants, many of whom are not entitled to temporary protection in our country, to various locations in the Czech Republic, without the approval of local authorities and against the will of citizens. These are, for example, cases in Prague-Malešice, where it is intended to be established on the Czech Post site a tent town for 150 migrants, as decided by Prague's Mayor Hřib of Pirates, without the knowledge of the Prague 10 district. Similarly, Mayor Hřib of the Pirates decided to place 120 Ukrainian Rom people in a house on Vrchlický Street. Again without consultation with local town hall Prague 5 and local citizens. The Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement also placed inadaptable Roma Ukrainian migrants in the village of Kramolín in Vysočina. These are typical examples of the power arrogance of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan from the STAN movement and the Prague mayor for the pirát, and a demonstration of the complete failure of the refugee wave by the government. The SPD movement clearly states that we should provide adequate temporary protection and shelter only to real war refugees, only for the necessary time. On the other hand, we see no reason to spend public funds on the care of migrants who are not war refugees, at the expense of citizens of the Czech Republic. Reading the submitted government proposal with a explanatory note was in a way a joy. Finally, the Fialův Government, at least in part, responds in fact to the great pressure from the SPD and to our comments and criticism, which I can sum up in the sentence that government aid to migrants from Ukraine is unsystemic, unnecessary, Fiala supporting economic migration and allowing abuse Petr aid. The government of Petr Fiala and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan from the STAN movement made the Czech Republic the best ATM in Europe, but for the money of citizens. It continues to be a criticism that the government is going unsystemically again. The protection of refugees, asylum procedures and so on, on the basis of international agreements, is dealt with by the temporary protection law, it is Act No. 221/2003 Coll. The adoption of the special law of lex Ukraine is therefore, from this point of view, clearly political theatre. The law itself does not speak of the citizens of Ukraine and in no way, it really does not solve them specifically, but it solves all foreigners in general and across the board, which is fundamentally correct, but in this case it is, again, fundamentally correct to regulate the law on temporary protection directly. All of you, as you are here, have cursed yourselves in your election campaigns, among other things, by simplifying legislation, which is now incredibly complicated, often senseless, and not even lawyers know it. In this amendment to the law called Lex Ukraine, government representatives confirmed the factual economic tourism of so-called refugees who arrive in the Union, then go to Ukraine and then go to the Union again, and according to all public information, they come here, to a large extent with goods that they trade in Ukraine and in our country. The large scale means that at one point Ukrainian dealers bought used cars throughout Central Europe, and they flooded the roads with four-day fronts, and we are talking about a front in the direction of Ukraine on the Slovak-Ukrainian or Ukrainian-Polish border. I don't think a used-car dealer, grocery store, or carpet, is definitely a war fugitive. He's not fleeing the war, and he's only going for a bargain. And it's really grim that this has been a known fact for many weeks that the SPD as the only party has pointed out, and the ministers have been here for this, and finally, after many weeks, the government also confirms in the explanatory report on this law. If I sum it up. People who are travelling for trade in Europe cannot have any special protection and support for a second. And since the conflict in Ukraine is taking place today on a very limited territory and the vast majority of Ukraine's territory is safe, there is no longer any reason to provide additional special benefits to migrants from Ukraine, e.g. from Western Ukraine, where there is no war, there has never been war. As we know, moms and children are already returning to Ukraine, saying that the reason is that they are safe in the areas where they come from. Schools and shops work. Even foreign media, national foreign television already warns that more people are coming back to Ukraine than they are coming to the EU, at least this is happening in some days, and even moms with children say that they are safe in their areas, so they are coming back from each other. So the Ukrajinec who are here, for example, from the Western Ukraine, perhaps from Zakarpati, which I personally visited, and there are a lot of them, those who intend to stay here, do so only for economic reasons. But in that case, they cannot legally live here with refugee status, and our state and our citizens cannot bear social and economic costs for them. [[16.00 hours]] The government also finally admits the need for greater verification of the so-called refugees. Unfortunately, media censorship does not allow us to evaluate the real situation and danger. At least one armed Ukrainian gang was arrested in Slovakia. It's hard to verify, but given that similar gangs, even before the war, followed and prosecuted Interpol, for example, it's not unlikely. Ukraine was also the centre of neo-Nazi tourism. Neo-Nazis from all over the planet have been here to shoot at Donbas and again this is confirmed by the findings of many international organizations from Human Watch to journalists from Bellingcat. These neo-Nazis, often with criminal experience, seem to be traveling freely today throughout the Union and also the Czech Republic. I'm asking - does the government have any idea about them? Is the government here analyzing any security threats, or is it taboo just because the neo-Nazi seed site is from Ukraine? Right-wing neo-Nazis attack and kill all over the world, just like Islamists, and it's incredible that just as ruling politicians have ignored Islamists for a long time because they didn't want to offend Islam, so now they're ignoring modern Nazis and Hitlers just because they're from Ukraine. When I sum up the above, the government law, in a way, is trying to correct the previous mistakes of the government of Petr Fiala, which cost and cost our citizens huge money, but the government is once again dealing with it unsystemically and inadequately. In the decision-making process, neither facts nor common sense play a role, but only momentary moods and ideologies, which is a reliable way that does not lead to solving problems, but rather reliably creates them. Finally, I would like to say that the SPD will support this law of lex Ukraine, as it addresses at least a partial way of failing the Fialův Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Another priority right is signed by Vice-President Kovářová, then Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, and then, if there is no further, we can move on to the participants in the debate. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are just beginning negotiations on an amendment for which the simple and apt name of lex Ukraine has been introduced. That in itself says it's an adjustment to a forced situation. Perhaps all members of this esteemed House, who have longer experience in legislative work, are well aware that, in the circumstances of pre-established laws, standards are often rushed and not well prepared. However, I believe that this is certainly different in this case. I'm sure everyone remembers basically a recent long debate about prolonging the emergency situation. Now it is certainly worth remembering that the time we gained by extending the emergency situation was needed, among other things, to prepare this amendment, was needed to prepare lex Ukraine. The technical details of the law will certainly be discussed here. I would therefore limit myself to a few points that I consider to be crucial. In my view, the overall impact of the proposal on the situation in the country is really important. I mean, of course, that if we discuss the matter quickly enough, it will no longer be necessary, because of the current refugee crisis, to prolong the emergency situation to which this House is already somewhat - let me say - allergic, and more substantial than the disgust of the Members and Members of the House, it is a fact that, although the last months of emergency affect the lives of citizens, the whole society already feels a great allergy to it. And once again, I want to stress that in those last few months, the fact that we are still living in an environment of declared emergency is far less pronounced in the lives of citizens than it was at the time of the pandemic. However, the public expects us coalition and opposition politicians to deal with the situation as soon as possible with elegantly and using gentler procedures than the emergency situation, designed - as we all know - to deal with a lot of different situations. I drive around our country quite often and I talk to a lot of people, so I can assure you of one thing. The solution is not only expected by voters of STAN, Pirates or other coalition parties, but also by supporters of the opposition. I think we all agree on one thing. If we have the opportunity to treat the legislative situation around the refugee wave without such a massive instrument as an emergency, it is indisputable, we have a duty to do so and we have a duty to do so quickly. For me, the most important thing is that this proposal includes provisions that will allow us to avoid the future in connection with the refugee wave caused by Russia's aggression, without emergency. I see two clear intentions of the government in the amendment. The first is that, based on this legislation, it will be possible to continue to help people fleeing war and destruction from areas where they are threatened with death. The second is that there are conditions for this assistance to be better and effectively controlled from the point of view of legitimacy, from the point of view of possible abuse, so that the State can gain better insight into the development of the situation. When the refugee wave broke out at the end of February and March, it really needed to respond immediately. We now have much more experience with the situation and these experiences are now included in the proposal that we now have before us. I would like to stress that they are incorporated there with all due regard for humanity and the dignity of refugees, but at the same time they are incorporated there with the knowledge of the need to ensure the really effective use of public resources. I am very glad that it has been said from the mouth of President Okamura that he will support this amendment of the law and I firmly believe that the discussion of this amendment will not slip into politics and into some pursuit of political points. This discussion should be about how well to organize helping people on the run. It should not be about what any of us think about Ukrainian history or the rights of the Russian Federation. We have over 300,000 refugees in the country. Our work today is to assess a law that will enable them to organise assistance and also effectively control this aid in terms of its effectiveness and legitimacy in specific situations and cases. I firmly believe that we will all understand this and that this law, this amendment, will be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Another registered with priority law is Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Mračková Vildumetzová and then Minister Lipavský. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I, too, would like to comment on the House press, the so-called Lex Ukraine II. I would like to start by saying that this House press has indeed been discussing today in the Security Committee. The Minister of Interior put this House press into the system on 19 May and I was very surprised that there was no earlier term where there would be enough time to discuss such an important House press, because today there was, in a way, a financial limit - a financial limit, a time limit, sorry - two hours. I don't mean to say that a number of questions have not been answered, but I think there are a lot of things that we wanted to discuss there, so I assume that if we ask questions here today, and I know that the Minister of the Interior can't answer everything, because there are other ministers responsible within the Lex Ukraine, but I suppose we'll get those answers. [[16.10 hours]] I would like to start by saying that I believe that Lex Ukraine II is late. I think it might have been preceded by the fact that we could have approved the Lex of Ukraine II here and did not have to extend the emergency for another month on May 19, because we are now clearly talking about either having an emergency, and if it doesn't, we need the Lex of Ukraine II. What I must appreciate is that many of the things that my colleagues in the Security Committee said in particular in March are responding, but it only reacts at the end of May and it is very late, because if it were to react much earlier, we might not have filled some of the stations and would not have started social tourism that started, and started practically five or six weeks before the situation here was in any case not like this. So I believe that this reaction should be far earlier, and I think that by pointing out and criticizing some of these things very strongly and loudly, the opposition has also put forward a proposal - and it is certainly a good thing that it is here - but again, the reaction is late. We constantly say that one of the most important things that has still not been fulfilled and is crucial is proper record. Today we learned on the Security Committee that 360 000 people received temporary protection in the Czech Republic. Those who weren't admitted who didn't get it, the number is 1,400, so the number is large. I asked the Minister the question that I was very concerned about how the figures were constantly changing, that on 15 May the Minister of Interior said that 160 000 Ukrainian refugees had already left the Czech Republic, that there were 200,000 of them. He then told us that he had done a pilot project in four municipalities with extended scope, and that when they found out if these people were on the individual addresses, it turned out that 80 per cent yes, 20 per cent no, so that immediately from May 15th, it increased to 280 000. And today, the Home Secretary on the Security Committee said that there are about 300,000 Ukrainian refugees in the Czech Republic fleeing the war. I have to say that when you're talking to the mayor, when you're talking to the authorities, there are no other things that you can do without the registration, and so unfortunately we still don't have a migration plan that's so important, and the most important thing in the migration plan is to know how many people are in the territory of individual cities, municipalities and regions, what kind of professions these people have, what kind of education they have, whether they want to stay here or not, and on the basis of individual numbers it's necessary to model on individual needs in those regions, cities and municipalities, and that is that we have enough places in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, so that we have enough pediatricians, practical doctors, dentists, but also enough employment and so on. And if we learn that, for example, yesterday's article from the General Health Insurance Agency, that the General Health Insurance Agency is currently paying health insurance for 333 000 Ukrainian refugees, and today we say that maybe they are here, maybe they are not, so it is obvious that these systems are not connected and we still do not know who is in our territory or is not. I am also very sorry that the Chamber of Deputies approved that the Minister of the Interior, as the national coordinator of the entire refugee crisis, would submit a plan by 14 April, first by 30 March, which was approved by the Security Committee. We've got a document that's not a plan at all. Then the Minister of the Interior came to the conclusion that he was bound by another resolution of the Security Committee, that he would therefore submit this plan to us by 18 May. We met with the Home Secretary on May 19 at the Police Presidium, where we were promised that on the next Security Committee, the plan would finally introduce us to discuss it with us, to present all the specific things, all the specific working groups they are talking about. And, hey, today was the Security Committee, and again, this item has not been included in the Security Committee. I'm sure I appreciate the opportunity to discuss this plan for a while, but you've seen how many people have been logged in, how many people wanted to transfer practical experience from the territory, and it's been so short a time that we've dealt with these facts here and we haven't come to any conclusion. Today, the Home Secretary said to the Security Committee that he would probably introduce us to the plan on June 9, so we're still waiting and we're still not expecting anything. And I keep saying that the plan is particularly important for the captains, the mayors, but for all citizens of the Czech Republic. They need to know and be sure what will be here in a month, what will be here in three months, what will be here in six months, in a year. I am always pointing out these specific things again, and I tell the Minister that, for example, the plan said that modular units would be purchased, that modular units would be purchased by the Administration of Material Reserves. We said there must be a term, there must be a responsible person. When I asked the House about it for the third time in the last plenary, I was glad to have received the answer that General Vlček replied that it could not be arranged, at this point in time to buy. But I think that the time has somehow progressed, that today is the 90th day, but most of all, I felt that virtually no one has ever started to deal with it, and that the state is certainly not thinking about buying any modular units, but that it will still be dealt with by military tents, as it is now in Troy or Malešice. I would like to ask the Minister of Interior, for example, what troubles the governor, and this is what is said that some regions are overloaded by Ukrainian refugees, it is Prague, Central Bohemia, South Moravian Region and so on, and there is talk about those so-called realoccasions. You regularly meet with the chieftains, and the captains could - or you agreed to do so - not to say it wrong - that the regions must prepare accommodation for Romani refugees, a region that is over a million inhabitants, I have to prepare 100 to 150 seats and smaller regions 30 to 50 seats. If they do not find such a suitable accommodation capacity, they must give you some location to build a designated camp. They were supposed to present it to you by today, yesterday, so I'd like to ask if all the regions have submitted it to you, whether they have the accommodation facilities, or if they have any suitable location to build a tent camp. Then I would like to ask whether - if the regions have given you this information - it is communicated with the mayors of the cities and municipalities concerned, if the mayors know about it, because, for example, we were asked at the regional council in the Karlovy Vary Region, where the locality would be, and we were told that they could not tell us this information at this time. But I think whoever's at the head of cities and villages is the mayors, and they should know that. And when I had the opportunity, but I only registered it in the media, perhaps the mayor of Prague 10 did not know about the construction of a tent town in Malešice. That's why I'm asking, and that's why I want an answer. [[16.20 hours]] At the same time, I would like to ask, because the fact that the Lex Ukraine 2 has been redesigned, so I would also like to ask whether the officials, the mayors, through the regional associations, the Cities Association, the Local Government Association, had the opportunity to comment on this, if you have a written positive opinion from them, if any, whether there are all the things that they are calling for, for example, if I now jumped into a humanitarian benefit, which is CZK 5,000, which is, therefore, the one who comes to the Czech Republic and obtains the status of temporary protection, can receive this humanitarian benefit for up to six months, and I registered it in many debates, for example, from the Governor Netolický and others, that they call for the unification of the levy within the other EU states, where Poland, Hungary, is constantly stating that the humanitarian benefit is much lower there, and that is about EUR 75, 80. I also asked the committee today whether it would be possible to demonstrate to us how it is in other EU countries, not just in those two, so that we could see and we could possibly make a comparison. At this point, I'm not saying what the amount should be, I'm just saying, has there been any reaction to the request of the chieftains, who sounded very strongly in the media as well. Then I would like to ask what we discussed today, too, on the Security Committee, that I am very sorry that a plan that does not exist - but you say yes - so why did not this plan be discussed by other committees that should deal with it, be it the Health Committee, the Education Committee, the Economic Committee, the Public Administration Committee and regional development. I am certainly not a great health expert, but I believe that this document, if it has come into the system on 19 May, and, at the same time, a matter that is concerned with the handling of this migration crisis, is two documents that should be dealt with by the other committees. I think that there are people on such expertise that they too could certainly give us a number of suggestions, which could then react in some way, whether in Lex Ukraine 2, or in a given non-existent plan. At the same time, when you say what we're missing there, we keep saying the same thing - what we were trying to do here at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the context of extending the emergency situation - and that is that the plan is to know how many people in the territory of the individual community, the regions are located, what those people have education, what professions and other things are within whether they want to stay or not, and that it is bound, of course, to the other things that I was talking about. Another important thing that concerns me a little, and if it is possible to answer it, is that the captains to the present moment on matters related to the refugee crisis - I mean to the regional assistance centers, which have prepared very well, I think, organizically and they deserve a huge thank-you for it - no subsidy programme has been written to the present moment and they have not received any funding yet. Furthermore, I must say that Mrs Novotná, of the Asylum Migration Policy Department, has responded very well to the committee today with regard to individual measures in the context of the abolition of the place of residence reporting. I was very pleased with the measures that were trying, practically speaking, to tilt Ukraine into the Lex of Ukraine in some way. I really have to say that the measures are right. The question is, even if the person isn't at that address, he's gonna be practically taken away from him. If he doesn't have a permanent residence, he's gonna lose the humanitarian benefit, but he's still gonna have a temporary protection status. So if you could comment on that, Minister, in any way. At the same time, I would like an explanation of the issue of the humanitarian contribution in some way, because, as I said, we do not know how many people are here, and you, in the current Lex Ukraine, are suggesting that if the Regional Directorate of the Labour Office invites a given refugee from Ukraine to come to the branch to verify the facts of the stay, it will take place in such a way that he will receive the shipment, and when he takes it - the question is when he will take over the shipment - he will have to attend the relevant employment office within eight days, and if he does not show up at the employment office, so that the humanitarian benefit could be withdrawn. Here's my next question. I would like to ask whether it is meant to be given the first dose of temporary protection, or, if necessary, Minister, if it is already the second, third, fourth, because he can only receive it for six months and it applies to children for six months. That means if you confirm it to me, if the mommy or someone who's coming here is already going to work, they're losing the humanitarian dose at that point, but the kids are getting the humanitarian dose further. Isn't that right? If I could get a confirmation answer for that, too. Because I can't imagine much of the way this is going to happen when the authorities are overwhelmed, and I am convinced that this control should be especially where these people live, where they have somehow reported their permanent residence address. If you said today that there's gonna be a police check, I can't imagine that the labor authorities are gonna be sending 300,000 letters and that these 300,000 people are gonna be coming to the employment office, and I can still see the risk that this guy has to show up when he takes over the shipment, okay? Yes, I'm sure there's an institute of delivery after a while, so it might be there, but still, if we want to solve the problems of social tourism, then the question is, are you going to be able to do that in quotes? At the same time, Mr Drahoslav Ryba and Mr Milan Brázdil, who will propose two amendments, will still follow me. The first will be about receiving or not accepting requests from citizens of Russia and Belarus, on individual exceptions, Mr Drahoslav Ryba will comment on this, and the second, which has already opened up on the Security Committee, concerns health insurance, where it is proposed to shorten the period for which a foreigner has paid health insurance, to 180 days. Today, it was said on the Security Committee from my colleague's mouth that if the stated objective is to motivate these people to participate in the work process, they would certainly want to discuss with you here whether the deadline should be even shorter. I'm sure Mr. Brázdil will introduce you to this proposal. [[16.30 hours]] To that end, I would like to say that at the moment, out of the number of 360 000 temporary protection, we know that 64 000 has already been involved or is looking for some kind of employment, but the number is not accurate, because only 45 percent of the 64 000 is on the main employment, which means that at that time they are taking social and health insurance, and that 55 percent is only on the job agreement where social and health insurance is not carried out, so the number is not yet large. That is why we would like to talk about this and we would like to discuss with you an amendment that would still change this, and the number if it could be shorter if necessary. Of course, I must say that I certainly welcome all the things that are being reflected in lex Ukraine II at the moment. I am really convinced that this should have come much earlier, even before the emergency situation has been prolonged, and we certainly want to support this House press, but we want to have all the questions answered, and at the same time we want to know whether or not from your side, or if you will, of course, properly argue that some of our amendments should be supported. However, I think that one thing is important about lex Ukraine II, and that, Minister, is the migration plan, and unfortunately it is not until now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u13	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President, and another party to the debate with priority rights is Minister Lipavský. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will be more or less brief and comment on the aspects of the current standard that are related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the agenda that our representative offices are dealing with. We well know that Russia's armed aggression in Ukraine lasts more than three months, and since the beginning of the invasion, the Czech Republic has expressed its fundamental opposition to Russia's aggression against Ukraine and its support from the Lukašenkův regime in Belarus. In coordination with our partners in the European Union and NATO, our government is promoting appropriate sanctions against the Russian and Belarusian regime. The government resolution, which has a direct link to the crisis measures with regard to ensuring the internal security of the Czech Republic, which is now in force and which makes it impossible for citizens of Russia and Belarus to submit applications for residence permits at the representative offices of the Czech Republic. I would like to say that, in connection with Russia's aggression in Ukraine, there has been a closure of the Consulate Generals of the Czech Republic in Russia, all these matters have to be dealt with eventually in Moscow or Minsk, and it has not been quite easy. As far as the legality of the measure is concerned, it simply needs to be noted that this is directly linked to the crisis situation that is currently in force. In order to continue with a clear conscience in a policy that will be clear, readable, this law gives us the opportunity for the government to have an instrument for the Czech Republic to continue to issue similar regulations in the form of government regulations. I realise that, in some cases, the total avoidance of residence requests against all citizens of the states concerned can be really hard, but in a situation where this proposal is passed, the government is prepared to adopt such a resolution, which will extend the existing exceptions, will extend considerably in particular to the benefit of the family members of the citizens of Russia and Belarus against those who are already legally residing in the territory of the Czech Republic. Of course, we also examine very closely the possibilities and conditions of transition from temporary protection to another residence title, but this should address the so-called transitional law, this is a different substance. Otherwise, let me mention one more important thing that is probably not spoken of too much. We are well aware of the role of opposition in Russia and Belarus and of the situation in which they are at risk. And in this case, together with the Ministry of the Interior and NGOs, we have prepared a programme called Civil Society. This programme has been passed by the government and serves directly to protect these particular human rights activists, who are thus able to reside and operate in the Czech Republic after successfully going through the programme, as specified. I therefore believe that the Czech Government is dealing with this issue quite in detail, and the adoption of today's standard will be very helpful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Minister, and given that all the priority rights are exhausted, no one is claiming priority rights, we can move on to the other parties enrolled in the debate. Mr Milan Brázdil came forward first. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear ladies, gentlemen, members of the government, hello. I'd probably start with that sentence, and I don't think anyone's gonna protest. The state is the biggest health debtor. Whoever works takes more to health than the one for whom the state pays, these are children, mothers at home and so on. Among other things, they are Ukrajinec who have reached us - and we are happy to help them - and these Ukrajinec, until this amendment was submitted, the House Press 221, for one year in fact, were state insured and could receive care like any of us. There is no exception between you or Ukrajinec, just any, even the elective, suspenseful one, but even the acute one could draw. And I am so glad that the government - they probably don't want my praise - but it still says, realizes that there isn't enough money in the health care, and so it comes up with that it proposes in Section 7 paragraph. 2 changes and actually changes the length of one year - Minister, you said 120 days, but it's 180 days, but it's, I know, but I'm just saying, 180 days, and you're saying it as not only - you don't mention money to health care there, but you say, the main motif is to motivate these people to get involved in the work process, and what they're going to do, they're going to do, so they're going to bring money to health, and I think it's right, nothing against that. [[more]] [[more]] By the way, we are still on the Security Committee today - that is, Mr Žáček, the rapporteur who delivered the report here, says: We have not adopted any amendments. Well, we couldn't, it was really about time. I'm sorry he's saying that because we had the changelings there, we wanted to load them, but we agreed to do it here in plenary, and I'm doing it. So what do I do? I want to and I'll sign up in a detailed debate so that we can have 180 days, that is, six months... [[16.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, imagine that you are refugees, imagine that, and you're fleeing somewhere, like Austria, something happened here. Say, put your hand on your heart: how long before you're able to find a job - like someone who'll do dishes or do inferior work. I think most of us in a month, okay, someone in two, but definitely six months, that's a luxury. I therefore come up with the idea that I would like to propose a shortening of the six-month period - and I will give that alternative as Amendment 2 - for two months, i.e. 60 days, or for three months, 90 days. When I was discussing it on the committee today, no one said anything that was wrong. It's for the benefit of all of us, the paramedics, it's for the benefit of the morale of the people who come here, they're gonna try to get a job. And I think that's what we all want. We don't want people here who are just gonna be pumping on this social network. At present, the war in Ukraine - and please don't take me at my word - is not, it is in some territory, but in most states of Ukraine it is not war, there is going to work, to school, somehow the health care works. I would also like to suggest that these people will either change their minds and come home, or if they really want to stay here and work, I think that within those three months and, alternatively, within two months - consider what is more acceptable - they will find work here, work is enough and we will be happy to employ them. And so we're going to do what the government said, we're going to motivate them to go to work, and secondly, those people aren't going to be state insured, and they're going to bring more money to health care, which nowadays - not that it's bad, but it could be better, and we're going to see how it's going to be next year. So I'd like to finish by thanking you again for the government doing the right thing, but I just think we can move on. I think half a year is too much to look for a job. You say, yes, a mother with a kid or two kids, I'm sure it's gonna get worse, but it doesn't have to be a full-time thing, it can be a time thing. This will lead to her being mentally better off than just living with a kid, but she'll be making money. So I hope I have explained my two amendments, better said, one in an alternative form, which I will then present in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u17	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Mr Letocha and Mr Zuna have signed up for it in fact. Mr. Letoc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable ministers, honourable Members, honourable Members. Allow me to respond to this contribution. Well, I'd like to think about it a little bit, too. It is very difficult to put yourself in the role of Ukrajinec, who have actually lived in uncertainty since February 24. For me, it's just that it's hard to think about a role I'm not in in my life. Nobody's bombing my property to me, no one's actually pushing me out of my own country with their risks. And if I should compare your approach to what the Čech have for six months, thank bůh for being able to be in the office of employment - they speak Czech, they speak language, they know local conditions, they have settled housing, they have solved basically everything. And how many times we're gonna talk, most of the unemployed are here for more than six months. So to ask ukrajinec to do the same thing that Čech can't do in six months, they can do in two or three months, so that seems very ambitious to me. And I'm not sure that for people who don't know the language who really can't move around, to have such demands on them, I'm not quite sure that's the kind of help we as Čech could give generously. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Another is Mr Zuna and will be prepared with the de facto Mr králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also respond briefly to Mr Brázdil's proposal. I will not comment on what has been said here that Ukrajinec who have temporary protection here should do some inferior work. I don't know why they should only be employed in the framework of inferior work. However, for those two or three months it is necessary to realize that if the influx of refugees started on 24 February and the biggest peak took place at the beginning of March, which is actually more than two months from now, so if these people do not have the opportunity by shortening the deadline, then it is necessary to realize that if they do not have jobs or want to be self-payers, they will go to the office of employment, so that at that moment, after two months, we should register all of these persons at the office of work, that it will, to a maximum extent, overwhelm the offices of work and at one point, send tens of thousands, maybe one or two hundred thousand refugees who would register. That's why, from my point of view, those two months are totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Another, with fact, is Mr králíček and another, with fact, please prepare Mrs Peštová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u22	Mr Vice-President, I would first respond to my colleague, Mr Letocha, through you. If we are already comparing Czech and Ukrainian citizens, you have the opportunity to change that. And if you're saying that you're not satisfied with the situation with Czech citizens at the employment office, change that. You're in the government, you have the power.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Another one with Mrs Berenika Peštová in fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u24	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker, but unfortunately I'm sorry, I didn't get the name. I was gonna ask, what's this low-level job? Our citizens can do the inferior work, and Ukrajinec, as you say, have problems with the Czech language... I wonder what that low-level job is. I appreciate every job. It's not that any work is inferior or inferior. If there are empty seats here, of course they can take over. And then you're remembering that there are problems with someone who's at home, taking social security benefits and not going to work, and they're elderly fundraisers. So these are real problems, we all know who you are from the Ústí Region or the Moravian-Silesian Region, unfortunately we have the problems there and we have been dealing with it for decades. And they're really not problems that can be solved, and we know that very well. I'd just like to make sure that there's no low-level work or low-level work. I only reacted. And then the next thing we know, we don't even know who's here or how many are there. That's the problem that's still going around, and everybody's trying to name it. We just don't know how many of them are really here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. And Mr Zuna wants you to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. I've only been for a really short time. The inferior work just didn't come from me, it was from your colleague, Mr Brázdil. I was just defining myself to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. I don't see another factual one, so please, another one properly... Sorry, in the meantime, Mr. Brázdil came forward very quickly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u28	Maybe the word came up, I'm sorry, I'm responding to you, maybe I didn't say it right. Anyway, imagine if it was me, the doctor, Charles University, and I had to run away today, I guarantee you, I won't expect them to set up a place for me in the rescue where I came from, so I'll take what's going to happen at that moment. It really will lead to the habit of continuing, a month from now, a second job, a third job. It's motivation to send this guy somewhere to do something, because if he doesn't go in for two or three months, he's not gonna want to, he's gonna get bogged down, psyche plays a role. Well, I'm sorry if I used the word inferior work, so I meant not as erudite as I did in the state where I worked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. And we also have one de facto Mr Letoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. I hope we just didn't get along, because of course I didn't compare, and I can't even compare, our citizens who are in the employment office. I just wanted to say that the Čech have five months or maybe six months to find work, and at the same time they have unemployment benefits during this time, and I said that the Čech have basically an advantage over Ukrajinec, when aside from all the security risks, mental amenities at the time, so they also know the language, they know the environment. And most of the time, the Čech at the Labour Office are looking for a job in their erudition, in what they are taught, a degree, which we now want again in ukrajinec, whatever they are taking here, ideally in two months. As I say, for me, the moment that this man doesn't even know if he wants to work for that reason, because he's planning on coming back, he's hoping to be able to go back to Ukraine and that his home is still gonna be okay, so he's gonna want him to start thinking about what he's gonna do here on the first day or the first week when he says, "No, I hope the war ends, I hope I come home and do what I did." That's why I'm saying that when the situation is developing in some way and that person is able to predict later how the situation is going to develop, even if it can never be said like that, I think it's very unsavory of us to ask them to find the job in two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Your de facto triggered a wave of other de facto. The first is Mrs Peštová, and the second is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u32	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. Those on the job, as you say - or you didn't say "worker," I say "worker" - the money that's being calculated to them is calculated from the income they had before, and they can be there for six months. And, of course, for them, it's already dehonest that they've even gotten there and they're looking for a job. But I'm more intrigued, now I'm probably -- maybe you can explain it to me, I'm sure you'll take the deed on me. You said they'd come here, and they're waiting for the war to end, and they're not going to do anything like that for that time? Or? I guess I misunderstood, but that's what it sounded like. So they come here, we give them welfare benefits, and we pray that the war ends in six months, or what? Only if you could explain it to me, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Another with the factual Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. I hope, then, that the Minister of the Interior will probably come forward after a file to answer all my questions. At this point, I would like to respond to Mr Brázdil's proposal, which brings about a shorter period of time when health insurance would be paid to them, and I must say that I am sure that the argument that was made here about 60 days, so if we take it that we now have 90 days from the war, then some would actually get into a situation that they would be the second day without someone paying them health insurance. However, I think that the 90-day proposal - and I would like it, because I think that there might be a proposal here for 120 days, because really, if you look at the number in terms of how many people have found employment today, and obviously there can be a language barrier and other things, so the number really isn't big yet. Yes? And I think that even though I understand if these people don't know and so on, I still think there are a lot of jobs in our republic. And I would like to know, if necessary, the opinion of the Minister of the Interior on a possible proposal for a reduction to 120 days of payment of health insurance, because I do not think that the time has yet passed within the framework of the person who has obtained temporary protection. I think that this could certainly be applicable in practice and could be effective, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Mr Letocha's Member wants to respond to another one of the facts. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. I'd like to respond to the question that fell on me. Maybe I'll surprise you, but I really don't think that people who run from Ukraine before the war don't run away with staying here for a while. I believe each of us would hope that this war will be over soon. That's why I'm saying that the person who comes here for the first few weeks doesn't think about where he's going to work, if he finds a job in his own business. He thinks about what's going on with him, he's worried about his loved ones, who stayed there, or those who are still on their way here. Yes, now that we've moved on in time, the war has some sort of development, and now we're talking about how long before this guy gets a glimpse and says, "O.K., I can't go back to the country right now, I need to get involved in the job market, so we're right here at the beginning, and we can talk about whether it's after a week, 14 days or a month, when he says, "O.K., I have to learn a language, I have to adapt to this company. And that is why I say that two months or three months after that is little more than that, and I will repeat that the Czech citizen can actually look for work under conditions where he has knowledge of language, knowledge of the local environment, not to mention that the diversity of the job offer in the regions is also different. Somewhere, it is simply not possible for our citizens to find work so quickly, even though we are at a relatively low level when it comes to unemployment. So maybe I've explained enough as I meant it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Another factual - Mrs Peštová - and please prepare Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u38	I'd also like to respond, of course, maybe move a little. I don't know if you've noticed this, but since June 1st, the Němec are starting to throw anchor, which means they're starting to slow down, and the support isn't as generous as it is with us anymore. They probably realized that there's only one thing that's gonna hold the system. This means that there will be no more refugee status, it will actually put them in social benefits and they will be able to ask for social welfare as the other Němec ask. I was looking - I haven't studied the whole thing yet, because it's all in German - but there's a limit - once you have a car worth more than 7,500 euros, they're gonna make you sell the car first, and then they're gonna have to apply for it, because that's where you have to make a claim to get social benefits. But I'm saying, I'm still graduating. Once I've got the whole thing, I'm sure there'll be a debate here. But they're already starting to brake there because they realize that the amount of money they spend is really big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. I prosit you, Mrs Balaštík, the de facto Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u40	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I'd respond to my previous speaker, my colleague. I don't think you're fully aware of the situation. I was helping colleagues who wanted to accommodate Ukrainian families in their home. I was just talking to my colleagues today that we should actually be asking them at the registration center - and it's not true that they don't know, they know - and whoever's packing their bags and leaving is almost 70 percent determined not to come back at all. I really talked to these people, and I can tell you that I said one thing to everyone: we are a small country, we do not have enough money. Please, we will definitely come to the moment when we have to discuss how we will feed you, and we will want to feed those who will learn Czech, or at least agree, find work and live somewhere, not live with someone. And so I bought them a dictionary, I bought them a Ukrainian-Czech textbook, I involved them in an online course - thank you that nonprofits did such a thing - I was looking for them work, two of those families already live and basically learn Czech. That's what they need to be told. And it's not true that they didn't get involved, but they need to be explained. The government will come to the point where it finds out that we don't have the money and we won't have the money to do it, and we only have to count on those who can do it, not keep them in the next three months, because they're gonna waste the three months they can look for jobs, accommodations and learn Czech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Madame. [[17,00 hours]] I see that no one else is actually reporting, so we can go to another properly signed up for the debate, we are still in the general debate. Mr Koten, please. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister or Ministers, I sometimes feel a little bit of the debate here that basically the Czech Government is subservient to a certain extent to Ukraine's social system, subservient to the Government of Ukraine, and I will have a few comments here. I therefore think that the government of the Czech Republic should, above all, take care that citizens of the Czech Republic have energy at affordable prices and social security, so that the citizens of the Czech Republic first of all have energy. We were told today on the Security Committee that there are basically 44,000 Ukrainian arrivals, that they have somehow integrated, involved in the work process, but we all know that there have been many Ukrainian workers here from past times, who have had a classic, proper work permit, let's say three months, and basically always at the time when they were finished - and until then they were paying social and health insurance in the Czech Republic - and at the time when they were finished, they were quite fluent in the regime of patience. What does that mean? So this means that those who have been paying social security and health insurance have become state insured, so it is currently being paid for by the State. I would like the Ministry of the Interior to be able to quantify in some way the number involved, because I assume that the foreign police have a database of these people who had a work permit, and of course, it is clear that if the same person's work permit ended and went into a state of patience, in my opinion, it is quite detectable and traceable. Furthermore, the Minister said that he was going to Brussels tomorrow and that he was promised an international database, i.e. access to an international database of people who receive social benefits and are from Ukraine. I would very, very welcome this link, because then social tourism would not happen as it is presented to us here in various media and the like that people who are coming can ask, for example, in Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and later Germany, because we all feel that there is a certain duplication here, and I think that this is not the purpose for us to pay as a third country or fourth country regular fees and health insurance for state insured people in the Czech Republic. What Mr Milan Brázdil said here, through you, is, of course, on account, already this version shortens it to 180 days from 360 days, which is, of course, good, but I think that we could also support those 90 days, because three months are a relatively long time, and given that many of the people who have arrived here have arrived on their own axis, even from the car brands that they have arrived here, especially in Prague, because I have seen a G-car Mercedes, Audi Q7 and so on, I think that they might be involved in the work process, but as my colleague said before, in Germany, it takes place in such a way that if someone drives in a car over 7,500 euros, the German state is building on it, to the benefits, very modestly, he will recommend that the vehicle sell it to them, and then only ask for the means to consume it when they consume the benefits in Germany. So I think we have the system set up very, very generously, and also for that reason there is organizing some tours from Zakarpathian Ukraine and then we have problems at the main railway station in Prague and then with the relocation of these people from the main railway station to various city areas in Prague, where unfortunately it is often without the approval of the city parts. I think that it has not yet been said here how the Czech government stands up to the conscription in Ukraine, because there are a lot of combatable men left behind, and I wonder, therefore, whether the Czech Republic is actively defending - or actively supporting - these people are not going to defend Ukraine, because of course there is an armed conflict going on there, and I wonder, because I have somewhere caught some statement by President Zelenský that they will perhaps lose the citizenship of Ukraine if they do not fight in the conflict of Ukraine-Russian, that they will lose citizenship. So what's gonna happen to them? Will they then be citizens of the Czech Republic, or will they be citizens without citizenship, or will it turn out like in the film Terminal, where Tom Hanks was imprisoned at the airport and couldn't even be there or gone? I wonder. These are, I think, quite relevant questions, and I don't even know if those men who won't fight and were given a summoning order - the Ukrainians - if there are any punishments then in Ukraine. So I think it's just... it's not an invective, but I really want to know legitimately, it's a legitimate question, so what's going to happen to them then? And I am particularly interested in how many of the 64,000 people involved in the work process, how many were there before the start of the conflict in Ukraine? That would be all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon, and we will continue with the general debate. Mr Drahoslav Ryba will be next to appear and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me address in my contribution Section 1 of the Act which we are discussing today concerning the unacceptable application of residence permits for citizens of the Russian Federation and citizens of Belarus. The Minister is here behind me, we touched it a little bit - no, I don't blame you, nor say we've discussed it a little bit - even for safety production. And I know that the limit, that it kind of smells like this collective guilt, and we were talking about whether it's some sort of recognition of collective guilt and punishment for it, or not, because it's a very thin line. And I don't want to discuss whether it is or not, but the problem is... Or I will begin by commendation perhaps - I appreciate the Government's efforts, because Section 1, which states that we will not accept applications for residence permits from citizens of the Russian Federation and Belarus, also has para. 2 which gives the Government the opportunity to make a government regulation providing for exemptions from this prohibition. And I appreciate the fact that the government in the upcoming regulation that I had at my disposal has extended the possibilities, and the circle of people who can get that authorisation or exemption is greater. Yet there is a group of people within this law that does not reach this exception, and I have to say that I have been greatly approached by several emails that I have received - some of which you have certainly received, because there have been addresses to all Members - who have actually asked us to live together. Let me just say one example: it is a citizen of the Czech Republic who lived here for x years with a girlfriend, there was a right to stay, she had to return to Russia, and unfortunately, in the meantime, the ban came out, she didn't get back, and she doesn't have the opportunity to live and stay here with her boyfriend. And then, when you put yourself in their role, that they lived together for x years, that they loved each other, and suddenly they can't get together, they can't, they can't spend months together, and maybe they can't get together for years, it's really a very, very bad situation from a human point of view. I would ask for this and ask you to support my amendment, my and Mr Patrik Nacher, an amendment that appeals or rather outlines the possibility of the government in the Government's regulation to solve other cases, other than those in today's proposal, so that we can help these people too. It is not only the citizens of the Russian Federation and the citizens of Belarus who are being punished, but it also affects our citizens, who, unfortunately, in this case, like Russian and Belarusian. [[17.10 hours]] So thank you once again for the possible support and I will read the amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask for Mr Jiří Kobza's speech and Mr Hubert Lang will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Allow me, too, to say a few words about the Government's bill on further measures in relation to armed conflict in Ukraine, which we refer to as Lex Ukraine for short. It is possible that some of what I will say has already been said, but repetition - the mother of wisdom. First of all, it should be stressed that the changes that this proposal brings into the administration process and some of the rules of organization and management of the refugee wave from Ukraine are very late, almost four months after the outbreak of this crisis, and are basically all the changes and proposals that we have presented in the SPD movement in public debates and here in the House since the end of February of this year when this crisis began. This was mainly about setting clear rules of thorough registration and illustration of incoming refugees and setting such conditions and rules of social and financial assistance to refugees, which will prevent their abuse at the expense of Czech taxpayers who finance it themselves and, at the same time, due to rocket-growing inflation and basic cost of living, they are getting into severe existential problems. I would like to remind you here that President Zelenskyj opened the prison, released the convicts and armed them to fight the Russian army, without handing over lists of names to our security authorities, so that we could at least have some control over whether these people who have committed heavy crimes happen to be in the refugee wave that rolled into Europe. The government basically ignored our proposals supported by experience and clear arguments, did not take them into account in the original refugee legislation, and unfortunately our concerns were fulfilled. A faulty government policy has led to negative consequences, to abuse of social aid, to the emergence of a phenomenon of so-called batch tourism, and to the fact that real war refugees are being carried along with the interpretation of economic migrants who are merely taking advantage of it and taking advantage of it. The highlight of the imaginary glacier is that the government does not know at all how many war refugees are actually located here, because estimates and data differ by tens of thousands, which has a completely catastrophic effect on any planning of accommodation capacities, places in schools, kindergartens, health system capacities and, above all, that means throwing huge funds out of the state budget without real ground and reason. Government policy liknavý led to the abuse of our social system by persons who, which has already repeatedly had to be admitted by the government itself, are not entitled to the status of war refugees and the status of temporary protection at all. It is mainly the Rom of Zakarpath with Hungarian passports, with which the government does not know what to do with them, the regions throw them over like hot potatoes, and again it costs a lot of public money. And now we come to the lex amendment of Ukraine, or to the fact that there are great internal contradictions in the government's actions, that it is not actually governed by its own laws and intentions. In the explanatory memorandum to this law, the government states: "After the fall of the initial wave, the Ministry of the Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic record a number of reasons where temporary protection is not necessary, or the reasons for continuing to exist for a particular person will pass away. It should be assumed that temporary protection is a subsidiary form of protection, i.e. it is applied only if another State is not responsible for protection. This is in particular a situation where it is found that a person is also a citizen of another Member State of the European Union.' And what's the contradiction? In the fact that the Government acknowledges that the temporary protection status has been unlawfully granted to many immigrants, that it rightly proposes not to grant it by this amendment in the future, or to abolish it if it concerns persons who, in addition to Ukrainian citizenship, have the citizenship of another State of the European Union. At the same time, however, the government and the Ministry of the Interior are doing absolutely nothing to ensure that these persons no longer reside here at the expense of the State. On the contrary, often against the will of citizens and local authorities, these migrants, without the right to temporary protection and social assistance, place themselves in various locations in the Czech Republic with a vision that they will stay here for a very long time. As a Member elected for Prague and also as a long-time resident of Prague 10 - Malešice, I am of course very interested in the examples that affect my region and the citizens I represent here, which are basically my neighbours. That is why, in relation to the establishment of accommodation facilities for migrants without the right to temporary protection, especially for the Ukrainian-Hungarian Rom, I have already in writing intersected Rakušan Interior Minister from the STAN movement. This is a tent town for 150 migrants, which is already being built on the Czech Post site in Malešice, not only without the knowledge of local citizens, but even without the knowledge and consent of the local town hall, only by the decision of Minister Rakušan and the pirate mayor Hřib. By the way, according to the mayor of Prague 10 Chmelová there are also other problems with cutting trees without the necessary permission. But only to illustrate how important applicable legal standards and legal procedures are for both the national and the Prague government. I must state for myself that the Prague mayor is more like a feudal lord than an elected representative of citizens. In his interpelation, Minister Rakušan also discussed why he did not consult the citizens of Prague 10 - which, and its negative effects, will be most relevant, the same applies to Mayor Hřib - but also to what will be the total cost of building and operating this facility, which is financed by Czech taxpayers against their will. And I would also be very interested to know how he intends to ensure safety, hygiene, public order in this camp, and above all, because it is 150 people, the sanitation of this area, and how much it will cost. The main question, however, is why the Ministry of the Interior and the management of Prague set up and finance public money for accommodation facilities for persons who are not war refugees and who have no legal or other right to stay in the Czech Republic financed by Czech citizens or are not entitled to temporary protection in the Czech Republic, which the government explicitly admits and confirms by this draft law. The Minister of the Interior and Mayor Hřib also decided to place another 120 Ukrainian Rom in houses in Vrchlický Street in Prague 5, again without consultation with local town hall and local citizens, while the entire management and council of the Prague 5 district, as far as I know, strongly disagree with this decision and state the relevant reasons for this, including the fact that this location is critically burdened by users of addictive substances from the nearby low-threshold drug-dependent facility and the supply of other people, when I say this diplomatically, unaccustomed to our quality of life in this part of Prague - it is also about the safety of domestic citizens who finance it all. By the way, even in Malešic, where the said tent town is built, there is also a homeless accommodation nearby. What do I mean? That the government behaves alibistically and hypocritically in the matter of the refugee wave and goes around its own standards, but above all, it goes around citizens. Unfortunately, it is not so important what will be written in the relevant law, but if it applies in practice, whether it will be observed and enforced. According to the deeds and activities of this government, it can be reasonably assumed that it will not be just another Potěmkinův village, a scam against Czech taxpayers, and that the imaginary wolf eats and the goat remains whole. [[17.20 hours]] I also have a written interview here, which I sent to Minister Rakušan, who I will not read to keep here, but I want to say that for us as citizens of Prague, for the inhabitants of Prague 10, especially Malešic, this question is very, very important. I hope that the way in which Prague's leadership approaches its own voters, its own citizens, will be remembered by citizens and voters in the upcoming elections. Mr President, thank you for the floor and for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Hubert Lang for his contribution to the general debate and Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u48	Mr President, honourable members of the government, Mr Home Secretary. I am glad that we do not have a limited time and I will get to what is actually being transferred to the practice of Lex Ukraine I and what is being transferred to the practice of Lex Ukraine II. I'll quote from the material created by the Home Office itself. It is an analysis of the risks that it assumes based on the experience of people dealing with this, a situation, a danger that any migration wave, crisis, can bring to the internal security of the Czech Republic. In its essence, every single point is slowly, but surely, starting to fill. The beginning was an unprecedented attack by the Russian Federation on Ukraine. We all know that. It's been mentioned many times. The YES movement supported all the government's actions in the beginning with the influx of refugees. Of course, we can't let anyone kill women, children, anything like that. In the beginning, we pointed out that this is not an easy situation. There were no type plans, as we discussed many times on the Security Committee, which were originally at 20,000 refugees or migrants. That's actually what all those type plans were worked out for, and all of a sudden, we had a huge tide here. Somehow, the first phase took place, that's the revenue phase. We are now in phase two, in the adaptation phase, and then there should be stage three - integration. I'd like to get to that, too. To date, according to the information we have from the Security Committee, we are granted 358 000 temporary visas. That means, it's a huge amount - it's practically 5 percent of our population - of the people who came here asking for humanitarian aid, for help, for accommodation, for protection, and so on. By being difficult and not alone in the Czech Republic, of course, Europe had to respond to this, we are in Europe, we are in Schengen. This means that Directive 2001/55/EC of 20 July 2001 on minimum standards for the provision of temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons and on measures to ensure a balance between Member States in making efforts in connection with the reception of such persons and with the consequences thereof, has been delegated under the Agreement of the Ministers of the Interior. I call it, in fact, a redislocation directive that has never been applied until the attack of the Russian Federation on Ukraine. Lex Ukraine I, in essence, is such a circumcised basis for this directive. The fact that everything is not ideal, even though we pointed out it - the minister of course also responded, always said: Yes, it is a huge influx of people, nothing is perfect, everything has evolved in some way. Everything can be agreed with, but we, Minister, have been pointing it out from the very beginning. I am not saying that in the first or second week of the disaster that took place in Ukraine and began to roll the migration wave, that it was all manageable. But today, as Vice-President of the House also said, our shadow secretary, Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová, is the 90th day. I say the shadow secretary of the interior, because I have also noted here at the House Forum that some coalition Members do not know that the ANO movement has a created shadow government and our shadow secretary of the interior is the Vice-President of the House. So just to clarify for some ignorant members of the government coalition. I will gradually allow myself to read the individual points of the risk analysis here, and I will always say completely pragmatically what the situation is. One of the points is: An effort to legalize illegal stays so far in the Czech Republic. These are so-called persons who are in the files of undesirable persons. Nationals of Ukraine until the outbreak of the war conflict were indeed some of the fundamentals when I tell it to slang, customers of foreign police in the territory of the Czech Republic. The citizens of Ukraine have long stayed illegally in the territory of the Czech Republic, working here illegally, abused various types of travel documents, especially European Member States, impersonating Romanians, Bulgarians, other citizens of other Member States because Ukraine was a poor state, average wage of around CZK 4,000, CZK 1,500 average monthly pension, and these people may have somehow solved their existence by working here in a really huge amount of black. Of course, the foreign police were doing their homework, those persons were somehow registered, getting into the files of undesirable persons. I have intersected the Minister, asking how many of the persons who, at the time of the effectiveness of the Lex Ukraine I, were in the register of undesirable persons and what we would do with those persons, because during the stay check it will be found that the person had previously committed some criminal or other infringement, was registered in the register of undesirable persons, received an exit order, did not respect it, moved on to the territory of the Czech Republic illegally. Lex Ukraine came and the person - and many of them - went to register at KACPU. Of course, that's where it was discovered, given an exit order, they can't carry out their expulsion, but there are quite a lot of these people here. So that's the first problem we have here. What the Police of the Ministry of the Interior wrote about this: "The increase in the number of foreigners asking the Czech Republic to grant temporary protection while staying illegally in the Czech Republic, on the date of application of the Lex Act Ukraine I and the associated burden for social, health, accommodation system in the Czech Republic. With this, there are increased demands for staffing the necessary number of police officers, not only the services of foreign police and police in general in connection with the administrative agenda of criminal proceedings and other criminal proceedings." As a way out of the situation, the Ministry of the Interior itself proposes to make the activities of the foreign police service more effective in the area of residence checks in the Czech Republic. You can imagine how residential checks are taking place today, when police officers are busy registering foreigners at regional integration centres registering foreigners, when they come daily from 800 to 1,000 people within the Czech Republic. The solution is to increase the number of police officers. This is in direct conflict with what the current government has approved, which means that not only has it not increased the salaries of police officers to a level to which the previous government wanted to increase, but, in essence, there are austerity measures. Next item: Falsifying travel documents of foreigners providing temporary protection. Please, at the outset, as my colleague Mašek said here, through Mr President, Vice-President of the Security Committee, we pointed out that the persons who were coming either had no papers at all, or had a birth certificate, or they simply had some other document to identify them as citizens of Ukraine, but at the registration points, there was a huge strain on who could. The specialization of document control is in itself difficult, it takes many years for a police officer to train, train, and in that huge number of incoming people it certainly happened that we don't really know who he is. We've registered someone in a lot of cases, and we don't know if it's really the person who had some kind of ID or if the ID was real at all. I repeat: we can look at this, statistically I am able to demonstrate that, in terms of counterfeiting and amending travel documents in the Czech Republic, with a Member State of the European Union and Schengen, Ukrajinec have participated to a significant extent each year in the framework of counterfeiting and alteration of travel documents. I ask why it should end only with the influx and the possibility of finding out certain groups of people - not, of course, mothers with children fleeing an immediate area - why they wouldn't take advantage of situations when they saw a huge strain on the registration points where they registered in quotation marks an official who had hands and legs. It was said to the Security Committee that many officials were accepted purely on agreement, because trade unions and asylum and migration policies are also undersized. Why is this happening? We can talk about this for a long time. He just registered there in quotes who had arms and legs. [[17.30 hours]] The Ministry of the Interior itself says: "The assumption of formation of groups dealing with the production and distribution of counterfeit documents after temporary protection may be directed towards organised crime, the extradition of other nationals as citizens of Ukraine, the increase in illegal migration and related crime, the threat to internal security. " From the experience of the Ministry of the Interior, I note again, he says from experience from previous periods of forgery of documents in relation to unauthorized employment and residence in the territory of the Czech Republic. So here's the question to the Home Office, the minister who always said, "We're leaders in Europe, we've registered a huge amount." I ask: Are these really all the citizens who have registered, are they really them? How are we going to look back when those people are receiving a five-thousand-dollar benefit for up to six months and at the beginning, my friends, really, really about 100 to 120,000 were registered in a way that would not stand today? How will we verify this backwards? It's a very difficult and difficult question. The Ministry of the Interior itself says: "Operative search activity in this issue from personnel subsidies." Once again from personnel subsidies, that means they need people to do it. "To ensure that" - this is the specialised workplace of the foreign police - "The National Centre for Document Control has sufficient police capacity and has come back to the examination of these granted temporary protection." Next item: Trade in poverty, the operation of illegal hostels. Today, as members of the Security Committee, we have learned that lex Ukraine is also talking about tightening up controls to actually find out where these people are staying, whether they are on those addresses at all, because we have all registered - and the media are saying this, not just the ANO movement as an opposition party, or the SPD, that many of Ukraine's citizens have arrived in the Czech Republic, registered, received a banking identity, received the first 5,000 hit and returned to Ukraine. You must have registered those three-day queues of cars, finely used, with mothers and young preschool children, who bivouaced for three days on the Slovak-Ukrainian border and transported these cars back to Ukraine. I ask: If anyone is fleeing from a war, saves their lives, and the Czech Republic has offered to help these people, do I really flee back to Ukraine by going back with a genteel Mercedes and with young children back to Ukraine? That's the question. The Ukrainian party canceled - or President Zelenskyj canceled - the customs duties on imports of vehicles are paid today to transport vehicles to Ukraine. So much talk about transporting soldiers to the front lines, no one really can be serious, that's where it became business. That means people are circulating between Slovakia and Ukraine, between all of Western Europe, all the bazaars, buying out these cars and driving them to Ukraine. I ask: Can you find out how many Ukrainian parties actually register, their customs authorities, these persons? I wonder how many of these people are driving these vehicles here and there, crossing the border many times with those cars, whether they are also recipients of our generous benefits, 5,000 doses, and if that's okay? I would never dare say that I wouldn't give any kind of help, accommodation, food to someone who actually comes from some affected area. But if I am fleeing and the Czech Republic has set generously, practically the most generous of all Europe - and we can all be proud of it, as it has helped and helped - we have set our arms, but please, Ukrajinec are 40 million. We never knew where the ceiling was. The war is likely to be long. Today it's a long conflict, there's practically no solution. We can say quite frankly that if we help Ukraine, and we want to do so, because the huge pier of the Russian Federation will probably not win, so it will become some frozen, long conflict and we really need to tell ourselves what we have and what we are not up to. [[versus]] We're connected by the economic crisis here, we've had a commotional crisis here, and we've been connected by this refugee crisis. And I really don't know if we are Parliament of the Czech Republic and whether we are elected representatives of the Czech Republic or if we are simply a union republic associated with Ukraine. This must be said openly, and people are beginning to draw attention to it because they are finding that we do not have funds for them and we have funds for Ukrainians. I say it's okay, but we just have to keep an eye on these things. Other point: Legalisation of the residence of foreigners included in the Schengen Information System pursuant to Art. 24 by another Member State because of a threat to public policy or public security. The Ministry of Interior itself says: "The risk of legalising a residence for which there is no reason to introduce SIS, the registration of SIS is done by another State." I'm asking: Even here, the material talked about it. At the time of the reception of the Lex Ukraine I people who really understand this at the Ministry of the Interior and at the Foreign Police pointed out these risks and we could already work these risks into the Lex Ukraine I. We could have avoided certain things, and we could have faced things that we now have to deal with. What the Ministry of the Interior says about this: "We must carry out increased control, operational activities, identify systems that transmit information to relevant services of the Police of the Czech Republic and intelligence services." It's the so-called ENO. Next item: Increased administrative activity and subsequent risk of illegal stay after temporary protection. We adopted lex Ukraine I, where we actually said on the basis of the redislocation directive that our guests from Ukraine could stay here for one year. Suddenly we have lex Ukraine II, we find that already that year, yes, it still lasts, but there are already some restrictions for 180 days. Probably the government is running out of money, it is reducing its preferences, which is also showing the April results of the surveys found, where we can see how the political party stands and what the Czech public actually thinks about certain government steps in this survey. Now, what about it? After the end of temporary protection it will be necessary to deal subsequently with the right of residence of foreigners, Ukrajinec, Ukrainian nationalities can be in the territory of another 90 days within a transitional stay if they meet any visa-free residence conditions. Please, when the Lex Ukraine is over, whether it be I, II, III, XV, we are in the European Union and we are in Schengen. The Ukrainian citizen is a classic third-timer. It's also partially answered by someone saying that these people are wondering if they're gonna stay here, stay and so on. For a lot of people, a window opened to Europe, even accidentally, and of course I don't want anything at all that went wrong there, but a lot of people are gonna use it. It is a similar situation, an analogy with the break-up of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, when we were dealing with practically the same problems at the time. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about, because at that time we really were dealing with practically identical problems. There were people coming in, they had another I.D., they opened their arms to all of Europe, a lot of people came in, and 80 percent of them stay here. As I was saying, 1,500 pensions in Ukraine, a weak social system, weak health security, 4,000 in college. I would probably, probably, have this open arms, in a country where my diaspora is strong, I'll agree in a moment, this open arms from the ruling coalition, only a fool wouldn't stay here. Increase in number forces and resources. Again, the Ministry of Interior says: "Preventive measures need to be taken, to instruct foreigners, to strengthen control activities in selected places, to concentrate such persons, or to evaluate transit migration routes. " And once again, there is a need for an increase in funds, which means the state budget that has been approved, and we all know that it was just an attempt to show that we were saving, that Babiš wasn't spared, that we were being saved. I am a member of several committees of the NBU, the SAO and so on, in all these commissions, we are implored by the representatives of the state administration that they have been cut to the pulp, that they are unable to carry out their basic tasks, and everywhere we are adopting a resolution as Members of the State budget, which will be amended to raise funds, because they are unable to tighten it, nor the mandatory spending, will suffice until October, November, for example, the NBU. [[17.40 hours]] Next item: Movements of refugees without residence registration. This is what Lex Ukraine II is now dealing with. On the Security Committee, we have learned that, in essence, the redislocation directive speaks of a person arriving, obtaining a temporary protection visa here, actually obtaining a temporary protection visa, which means that he can move within the Schengen area - yes, we are the other country, we are not directly on the external Schengen border, the harder it gets, these people are just moving here, moving from one Member State to another and so on. I didn't register at all in lex Ukraine II to try to get this done internally, just say: Well, you're fleeing to the Czech Republic, we're gonna provide you with accommodation, food, we're gonna give you your kids to school, we're gonna provide you with health security, but you're not just gonna circulate around Europe. This is also a big question, and the Ministry of the Interior itself says: an increase in transit legal migration, can lead to an increase in transit legal migration across the Czech Republic, an increase in corruption, trade in prostitution, drugs and health. The risk that the Ministry of Interior sees here is the involvement of the citizens of Ukraine and other post-Soviet republics in criminal activity in the area of organizing and allowing illegal crossing of borders with neighbouring states, smuggling, organised crime. When I took the liberty of saying here, it was probably when the state budget was being discussed, that groups would come in that huge wave, which would not have a completely clear conscience in quotes, criminally flawed persons, so here I got a statement from the Minister slowly to my person, when he said something in the spirit that he had to breathe out the statement, and so on. And you see, they're gonna run away for two months, and we're finding out that someone is sending us organized here, I'm not gonna say -- people with specific needs to be correct -- who just come here, register, and probably leave again. For some, 5,000 crowns is interesting. Again I note the university salary of CZK 4,000, CZK 1,500 pension. That's actually why these people are coming. I heard in public space, who's worth coming here for 5,000 crowns? Yes, if the family has 20 heads times 5,000 crowns, it's a lot of money, and it's our taxpayers' money. We're here to fight for 5,000 crowns for our families with children, it's a huge mess and chaos. We just don't have somebody here on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have somebody who probably doesn't deserve it. An increase in operational search activity - it is expected here to carry out directorates, services, NCOZ, SKPV. Today we have learned, or I have noticed it yesterday from the Police President that Ukrajinec are involved in criminal activities within the Czech Republic 2.5 percent. We have some number of crimes, and I'm not exactly sure if it's about 175,000 crimes per year, so if we take some 2% of that, we can do the math. The question is, what was the crime at the time of the covid, when everything was subdued, what crime is now. The Ministry of the Interior is also predicting that Ukrajinec who are already staying here in some form will commit some kind of crime. Next item: The arbitrary movement of already registered refugees. This is exactly what Lex Ukraine II is responding to today, where it is precisely because there are problems when foreigners just arrived, somewhere they registered, then for some reason they didn't like it there, everyone just wants to go to the regional city, everyone wants to go to the capital. When I flee, I flee to the village where I live, where there are 56 inhabitants. We have three families of Ukrajinec, mothers and children, our mayor took care of it, so they fled there, we lived there with them and live with us. Someone just wants to live in a big city, but we can't allow them to dictate in quotes where they want to live. We're gonna give them all that stuff. And that's what we pointed out that we don't have a strategic plan. We really don't know where these people are, and all of this is tied up further, education is set up, health care is set up, accommodation is set up. Police of the Czech Republic, Department of Migration Policy and other organizational articles of the state administration without data in the register of current residence of refugees are unable to solve this. There's a primary lack of a system to catch the movements. Here it is again - just to be correct, of course there is some way of working on these systems, so that it is not said that people who are involved do nothing about it, we were also promised that even some European system will be introduced perhaps 1. 6. 2022, information will be poured into it, and so forth, to find out if anyone is asking for humanitarian benefits in more countries, and how much such a percentage could possibly be. I've noticed somewhere that it could be up to 20 percent of applicants who just find out that it's possible in Germany, that it's possible in the Czech Republic, that it's possible in Austria, so they're going to order it and get the benefits. It's just probably human... Some group of people who always take advantage of the goodness when they can. Abuse of the temporary protection institute by persons who do not fulfil the conditions laid down by law. Once again, lex Ukraine is trying to respond to this in some way. Applications for temporary protection from other third countries or other EU citizens. And here we come across people with specific needs who have been bivouacing us or yet bivouacing us at Prague railway station, Pardubice railway station, Brno railway station, where we discovered that they also have double citizenship, which means they have a travel document for Hungary, namely Hungary, when they are members of another Member State of the European Union, and logically they cannot belong to the Lex Ukraine, and actually here the material already assumed that something like this could happen. The risk has been identified here, I have a note here, far before, therefore, on the basis of the Lex Ukraine, we have been exposed this way. What about it? Information campaign, registration, reporting obligations, the emergence of a European system that could somehow identify these things for us. It is also a link to the CIS system, which is the information system of the foreign police, and the SIS system, this is a Schengen information system where these data can be collected in this way. Reporting obligation - waiting for an opinion, here it is written, the Department of Legislation of the Ministry of the Interior. Here we come again to the fact that we should first... The fact that these people could have been long, they came here and registration was three days, then it was found that for capacitive reasons it could not be managed, so it extended, now Lex Ukraine again says that registration should take place again within three days, which means we are only going back to where we didn't even have to be anymore. Other point: Failure to fulfil obligations in relation to the notification of accommodation of foreigners - nationals of Ukraine within 30 days of entry into the territory where the obligation to report the place of residence does not apply to foreigners to whom the obligation to carry out the accommodation, ignorance or intention. What does the Home Office have to say about that? Unknown number of Ukrainian nationals in the territory of the Czech Republic. In particular, it is a situation where a foreigner is located on the territory of the Czech Republic, does not apply for temporary protection and is not notified of the place of residence in the territory. As I said, a total of 358,000 visas have been issued to date, but they say there may be up to half a million Ukrajinec here, so for some reason some people have not applied to those centres, and they simply do not draw any temporary protection. The foreign police are now in a state where they are not capable of practically, let's say openly, carrying out sufficient residence checks to seek out these foreigners by being employed by the registration of foreigners. I really don't know how the foreign police will manage in the current personnel situation to carry out checks on foreigners set by the Lex Ukraine II, which I think is really very illusionary. It's well written, but practical implementation in the current state, the number of foreign police is unrealistic. I'm getting close to the end. Falsified documents justify - here I still have, sorry, failure to fulfil obligations, I have also mentioned this here, so I would like to say very briefly that at least in the risk analysis, for example, there is talk of falsified documents to drive motor vehicles. Here we were referring to the fact that there are actually registration plates where they weren't insured, then it was dealt with in some way, we can't actually arrange a tow in Prague, where they park on the blue zones, if the driver doesn't get caught there directly and so on. These are small things, but of course these analytical materials also talk about them. [[17.50 hours]] I would like to say that a resolution by the Security Committee has been adopted today, when we really had it, as Vice-President of the House said, through Mr President, a total of two and a half hours, less than three hours, because we were commanded by the House's leadership. There, the chairman of the Security Committee always said: and now it's 9.20 hours and 9.35 hours and so forth to fit into a limit, so from my point of view, it's completely undignified. Despite the fact that the resolution was adopted here, it should be said that it was 8: 7 - 8 members of the Security Committee for the government parties that were in favour, 7 members of the opposition abstained. This means, of course, a resolution has been adopted when, in particular, in paragraph 3, in order for the Chamber of Deputies to end the debate on this matter no later than 19 hours, we have abstained, and so far we have abstained that we are not fully clear whether we will have a free vote or whether we still need to consult whether we will support or not on the basis of all the things that I have mentioned here. I would like to say that I am sorry one thing: I am sorry that since the beginning of March, or when we discussed these things several times on the Security Committee, we did not want to throw sticks under the feet of either the Home Secretary or all those people who are working on it in some way, whether they are firemen, policemen, nonprofit sector, captains, ammunition and the like. We were just pointing out that some things could happen, and unfortunately, as I read here, and that's actually why there's this tightening up, there's lex Ukraine, there's some things that have happened. We can provide help, we can provide help, but under certain conditions. And whoever doesn't deserve it or take advantage of it shouldn't get help from my point of view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next in line, Mr Lang. [[Mr Lang on the way from the speaker's desk: I have already spoken.]] Mr. Mašek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues. I will follow up on my colleague Lang, who described most of the problems quite extensively and in detail here. My comment on lex Ukraine II is that it turns out that this law is obviously necessary to discuss, because since the adoption of lex Ukraine I have changed a number of things and there have been various complications to respond to. But I would like to say here in advance that many of these complications did not have to appear here, or on a much smaller scale than they actually do today. At the same time, I consider, and I would like to submit here, the adoption of the Lex Ukraine II as a step towards ending the emergency situation, and I assume that the emergency situation will also be terminated as a matter of urgency. And here again, I will remind the current coalition, the earlier opposition that has caused us problems at a time when human lives were involved, at the time of the covideo pandemic, and when the emergency situation was not prolonged to us, and today, with their force in the House, they have pronounced it, even though there is no objectively need. So I want to believe that with the Lex Ukraine II, the emergency will be over. There are problems that, as I said before, could be avoided. They could be prevented by hearing our Members, the opposition Members on the Security Committee, where we are already on March 3 or 10 - and I note that this was two weeks, or three weeks, since the start of the conflict in Ukraine and the emergence of a migration wave - they proposed measures, particularly in the registration, which would have prevented many of the problems that we had already anticipated. But what happened was that at that time the coalition's clear view was won - we just have to help at all costs, people are dying there, now don't hold it up. Unfortunately, there was also a bit of arrogance. We've tried it repeatedly. Now, to be a little specific, what did we want? Our main concern was to have a perfect identification. A colleague of Lang's has already mentioned this as a former foreign police officer, so I'm not going to elaborate on this, but the perfect identification of those refugees is very important from my point of view. We drew attention to this even then and there was indeed registration of refugees for various documents, the beginning was hectic. I understand that when it took 17,000 refugees a day to find it difficult, however, who worked in health care, did at least some basic science and research, he knows that when he collects some material, he really has to sit down for a while at the beginning and think about what he's going to watch, what parameters he's going to follow, because you're never going to get back to that. And today, when the Home Secretary is arguing for us on the Security Committee and asking for some numbers, he's going to say, well, we're doing a pilot project in several cities, and that's where we get this and poppy percentages. You can imagine - I believe, well, if a number of parameters were followed at the beginning from the beginning, they were written somewhere in an excellent table to feed the systems in the future, we would have much more clarity. I already know why this migration plan isn't coming into the world to our liking. My idea, if I were in the mayor's position, that idea would be that I'm able to get information, not just how many people I have somewhere in my city, somewhere in which they are composed, what their professional composition is, how many children are there. I might also learn about the number of children or their parents interested in entering schools and kindergartens, but I would have to get that information comprehensively from the start. It would be a little bit more work, but today we'd be in water quotes, and we really should have a lot of information. And that would have to be a perfect identification. From a security point of view, we also proposed photography, and we proposed it repeatedly. The Minister of Interior agreed to this, or the Police of the Czech Republic, I say, the proposals were on 3 and 10 March, so it began to be photographed on 25 April, at a time when there were more than 250,000 migrants. We designed this at a time when there were around 60,000 migrants. Another thing we proposed was to record crossing the Schengen border. I know the Ukrajinec ferry was hectic, but with a little goodwill, even if the data were incomplete, at least the basic evidence could be obtained. We are now approaching this within the lex Ukraine II that we will require it, and we are actually a hundred days from the beginning of the war, so we could and should have reacted significantly earlier. It was also important to state where these people were coming from. We also pointed out what part of Ukraine they were from. However, it didn't happen. What was there to predict? That those who are from a safe part of Ukraine, which today is more than two thirds of the territory, would most likely be coming back. But it's just that these data aren't on the record again and we don't know what percentage is from a safe part of Ukraine. Surely there was a question to be asked, and those people - I understand, here was argued that in the first stage they did not know whether they wanted to stay here longer, or they wanted to connect their future life to life in the Czech Republic permanently or for a long time, but certainly the question should have fallen and the box should have been filled out. I'll tell you why - because, of course, it would be worth paying attention to people who were interested or interested in staying here for a long time. They could have already run language courses for them, we should have given them priority, not to catch it additionally, if we don't even know where to address them, where to find them, where to call them and where to get the information. So there's a lot of these things. It's also a question of professions, if these people would be interested in working here, possibly in what profession. As mayor, I would love to click on my computer somewhere and have these data - how many people there are, how many kids, how many of them want to go to kindergartens, schools in my city, what professions are available there, if we're able to employ them, how we can take care of them, and so on. And this assumption - now I understand it, Minister - you can't fulfill us because you don't have the data. [[18.00 hours]] And you're actually wondering how many Ukrajinec we actually have here - and we're talking about macro-numbers - if we have 360,000 registered here. Then there was a media statement from you that maybe 140,000 weren't here anymore. When we asked you about it, you misunderstood that it was the figures of Frontex and that you didn't mean it that way, and then again the number of Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic suddenly increased day by day, again by 80,000 back. So these are data from which you can't really assume anything. And I understand that the migration plan will then be limited to the fact that we have some global intentions on how to do it in individual departments. We don't know the exact numbers, we'll have to wait until 15. 7. until the children actually sign up for school or sign up, because we can't predict anything until then, so the situation is what it is. And I'm just reminding you that if at least part of our suggestions were heard, the situation could have been significantly better. I can also imagine that when I come as a migrant to a country, not only will I express my willingness to work in that country, but I should also express my willingness to sign the agreement with the rules of the game in that country - meaning what we are now catching up on, that if I have a place of residence that I have been assigned to KACPU, or I have found it myself, so I'm going to stick around and sign a commitment right at the beginning, that if I move somewhere from it, now I'm going to say after a few days, weeks, I don't know, but somehow it could be specified, so it would mean I'm going to report it somewhere, which is now catching up backwards and the condition of paying humanitarian benefits today is that the person has to prove his whereabouts. So it's all going, but it's going slow, it's going wrong, we could have had a lot of things really caught up and we could have gotten the information. As mayor of the city, I'm sure I wouldn't be satisfied with inaccurate national numbers, which really can't help me today. So all the numbers from my point of view today that we have, even the macros, are kind of on the water, and we see that there's no way to build a migration plan on them, as we asked for it. I'm not going to focus on the other questions here, because I could not only talk about safety, which Mr. Lang here said, I could talk about health, which is a separate issue, health insurance. And once again, we're in extremes, and on the one hand, it may seem like we're not getting enough money for Ukrajinec as health insurance people, and insurance companies are going to get into a deficit, and on the other hand, if I'm completely overreacting, if the 140 000 Ukrajinec who are here are registered and left, if that were true, we're pouring money back into that system that shouldn't be put there, because there aren't any Ukrajinec physically here. We're in a situation today that we really don't know almost anything, and I'm a little concerned because every time we talk about it on the Security Committee, the Minister is getting allergic to the fact that we said something on March 3 and 10 and that he doesn't even want to hear it anymore, and it's really bothering him. But I just have to remind this place, because I think it's very important. We should learn from this in some way and the situation that is currently here in the Czech Republic is unclear. We don't know the numbers, we have to be surprised by what's going to happen in the fall, for example in the schools and so on, and in any case it's not good. So it's just my comments on the Lex Ukraine II. I understand his need, a number of points, and I think his breakdown is logical, and my colleagues are proposing amendments on two points. Then I beg you to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. With a factual remark to your speech, Mr Lochman, Mr Lochman, has applied. Before the speaking table comes, I'm just gonna load up an apology. Mrs Pastuchová apologizes until 6:30, but Mr Navrátil Jiří cancels today's apology. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes to make a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would just like to respond specifically to a few things that my colleague, Mr Mašek, has said here, through the President. Mr. Mašek has said several times that we don't know the numbers and we have to be surprised. We'll never know them properly. I have heard here several times that it is necessary and that some are returning to Ukraine, where it is safe, and that some may have gone somewhere else. We will certainly be happy if they return to Ukraine if they feel safe there. And now that we have special entries for Ukrainian children in schools, we won't know in two months if they'll be here. Let's not be naive, we all wish they'd come home. Through the President, Mr Mašek, you do not know what it will look like on that front in two months and whether we will have 100,000 fewer or more people here. None of us know that. The system is created here, and it has been said several times that as mayor, he wouldn't want to hear that we have numbers that are inaccurate. I have to say that as mayor of the community with extended scope, I got the exact numbers of how many registered people I have on the oerpéčka, I know how many people I have in individual municipalities that don't filter out the state, and I understand that when we inherited, this government inherited the crisis plans that were for 20,000 migrants per month, and they came up to almost 20,000 per day, well, somehow it was impossible to prosecute everything. Then I have a lot of questions here, why, in fact, when there was another migration wave in 2015, why we didn't inherit better crisis plans, why we didn't have the perfect identification, why we didn't have all the things set up by our colleague here. I think it's a little bit of the Count's council from the bench, because if we had it ready, we could use it. And it's logical that if 200,000 people come in here in two weeks, you can't handle all of this. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u53	Time, Mr. Ambassador, has passed just now. [[- Thank you.]] Thank you, colleagues, for alerting me a few seconds earlier. And your factual point raised three further factual points: first in line, Mr králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded briefly to my colleague Lochman. I'm really sorry you weren't here last term. I'm really sorry. I liked your speech so much. It's a shame you didn't tell your chairman last year, because I can even agree with you that some things are changing. But it's a shame that last year, when Covid was here, your movement wanted exact things: how many infected, where, how, exactly, in a week, in two weeks, give it to us. And now everything's floating. I'm sorry you weren't here. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Mr Mašek, next with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Oulehlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. Just a colleague who had the comments here. I also agree with him, I know it's not easy, but to compare the migration wave where everyone wanted to go to Germany and it was all Mutti Merkel and one-way, and in our country it was minimal to compare it to this wave that hit us like this, and to want to prepare for tens, hundreds of thousands based on the previous migration wave, so I guess it wasn't that the preparation for the 20,000 long-term was probably adequate. This really hit us all, this migration wave, and I just see the problem really in preparation and listening to myself. You are not a member of the Security Committee, you do not know that we mentioned this, even here at plenary there were comments on the registration. All you had to do was catch it earlier. We really came up with these comments on March 3 and 10, so they're not the Count's advice some backwards, but they were online and the question was to use them at work. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping time. The next, with a point of fact, will be Mrs Oulehlová, Mr Lang will be prepared, followed by Mr Lochman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u58	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond, through Mr President, to the Mayor of the ORP, who has made a substantive remark here. I'm also the mayor of the ORP. I don't really have the exact numbers. Even the government admits that 30% of people are somewhere, somewhere migrating, so I'm really surprised that you have this exact figure. [[18.10 hours]] As for the fact that the previous government did not prepare a plan for such a large migration wave - I think that no one really counted on such a large migration wave, and neither did anyone count on the pandemic of the covid, where I really watched the past government really take it from the opposition and in what a difficult situation they were. So don't be surprised that we're asking too now. And I think we're still decent against what was here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Next in line, Mr Lang, Mr Lochman will be prepared. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Mr Lochman's previous speaker, through you, Mr President. Why are we where we are? I'll tell you why. Because in 2010 to 2013, right-wing governments ruled here, something similar to today, and at that time, when we look back, for example, a reduction in the Foreign and Border Police Service was made to the Foreign Police Service. I don't have to get yelled at by an MP like that. Please, we're on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so you can behave yourself, or you can go outside and we can talk about this!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u61	I will ask that Members address themselves not directly, but through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u62	So thank you, through Mr President, I would like my colleague to either express himself here on the microphone or remain silent. At that time, I beg you, a major reorganisation of the Foreign and Border Police Service was carried out at the Foreign Police Service. The departments under individual regional administration were dissolved. There has been a transfer of competences to the asylum and migration policy unions, a lot of people have left, no one has come. If we are in the situation that we are in today, we are also in that time in 2010 and 2013, and believe me, I know what I'm talking about, there has been a reduction and a restriction that we are reaping today, the fruits. So it can't be said that it was Mr. Babiš's previous government. It's the long-term underfinance of these special components, which every state that's aware and interested in its security keeps -- these people just don't grow up like potatoes. I've always used this saying: If you think you can plant someone in the spring and harvest them in the fall, that's not it, colleague. We have to take care of these people, we have to fund them enough, we just have to take care of them in some way. So I was suggesting here, and that point has not been approved to start thinking again about whether or not we need the Foreign Police Service as a nationwide unit with unified leadership, with a unified methodology, with uniform instructions, with uniform training for these policemen, and I definitely think they deserve funding. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, time - if you so log in again. Thank you very much. And the final application for a factual remark, Mr Lochman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'll start from the back. It just seems a little smiley to me when YES was eight years in the government, that it didn't change, Mr Hubert Lang, through the President, what you said was so bad, that in 2012, 2013, something changed here. You had eight years to change that if there's a problem. As regards the migration wave, through the President, I would like to respond to Mr Mašek. I would only consider that, when 1.5 million refugees rolled across Europe, the government, as administrative caregivers and caregivers, had been deprived of the government and created a risk analysis and prepared everything Mr Mašek was talking about. This obviously did not happen, and this government had to try so quickly to accommodate such a large number of refugees. And to Mr, through the President, colleague Králíček, that I was not here - he was not. I'm very surprised at what they do here on purpose. A hundred people switched here, and maybe the pranks wouldn't have to happen again. I understand it might have looked like four years in some way, but I wasn't here, but I'm not sorry. Because I believe that this government has managed to handle the refugee crisis, to accept 300,000 people, and on our oerpéčka, I checked it right now, even today, with the Police of the Czech Republic, there has certainly been no rise in crime. So I don't care that I don't know exactly where the fugitive is that day because he doesn't commit crime and goes to work. And that's what I need as mayor because I feel safe and that my citizens are safe. So I'm really not sorry I wasn't here because I think it was much more chaotic than it is today, and all I need to know is that I saw it on TV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Mr králíček has made a point of fact, Mr Letocha will be prepared, followed by Mr Mašek with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u66	As my colleague Nacher said, I didn't want to perform anymore, but I have to. You, when it suits you, you say we've been in this government for eight years so you can kick Babiš again. But in that government where Mr Sobotka ruled, there were folks, your coalition partners, by the way, so when you kick them and say that someone's been doing something wrong for the past eight years, you're also kicking your own coalition partners. Oh, by the way. And the other thing I wanted to say: you're saying that we should have done a risk analysis in 2015 and that we should have done something for eight years. Again, we didn't have an interior minister in either government, first of all. And secondly, we wanted a plan for the current Home Secretary. You didn't have to do the risk analysis, but you don't even have a plan. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u67	Mr Letocha and his point of order, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to what was happening on Committee 3 and 10, and how we are constantly being told here that it was necessary to ask those refugees to take pictures. If I recall correctly, that question was not left unanswered, and as far as I know, the Minister informed us about how it was going, that refugees with their passports weren't photographed, but if they didn't have the passport with them, that is, they haven't been able to prove their identity since the beginning of this crisis, the refugee crisis, they were photographed, they were illustrated in various databases, and the illustrations took place here. So the fact that it was falling, the questions, it's true, but the second thing is that there were answers to the committee back then, too, and that was enough for you. I kind of feel like it's forgotten. The illustrations of people who did not actually prove the origin, or the passport from Ukraine - were illustrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. Mr Mašek, Mrs Oulehlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. I'll be really brief. So it wasn't enough, we wanted the photo shoot, the photo shoot came up to 25. Four, flat. Until then, it may have been random, but it was definitely not KACPU's turn to take any photos, and that's why we wanted to. Another thing I would like to respond to here was the question of the role of the past governments and the reduction of the foreign police and these departments, which are now very much missing, or it was indeed in the right-wing governments. We didn't fix it, maybe it's our fault, but we didn't initiate the drop. And I'd like to remind you of one more thing, quite interesting. When you plowed us on the covide, you know that hygiene was failing. And do you know who weakened hygiene back then? It was Minister Heger at the time for the TOP 09. So, all those austerity measures have now backfired on us - in Ukraine, before that, on our covid. In the case of Covid it was the subject of your criticism, we responded at the time, Minister Adam Vojtěch responded very quickly and strengthened hygiene by 80 people, although it was not so easy to get doctors and hygiene professionals, but it could not be saved completely. So look for the roots in your savings again, and I'm afraid this nation is rushing back into those savings, and that's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another one with a factual point by Mrs Oulehlová. I'll ask Mr. Zlínský to prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u72	I would still like to respond backwards: On February 24, the war started in Ukraine, on February 27, the first moms started coming to town on Sunday, who were really miserable, tired after a 40-hour journey, one with a two-month-old baby in our arms. I was at KACPU by midnight on Tuesday with firefighters in our county. I came here, it was emotionally difficult for us, it was just complicated. I came to the Chamber of Deputies on Tuesday, which she was meeting, and naively - I admit, I'm a rookie, I didn't know how it was going - I expected us to drop everything and deal with the crisis that the mayors, which ordinary Czech people managed to handle, were handling. And we've been talking here - you know what? The rainfall at sea, the protection of the hops, so the government has completely forgotten us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u73	Mr Zlínský and his point of fact, Mr králíček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'll look at it a little differently. Here were the words that the pandemic and the migration wave of this magnitude could not be predicted. I have a slightly opposite opinion, because some experts pointed out that if there was a pandemic of large scale, it would be some type of pandemic that eventually occurred. As far as the migration wave is concerned, I fear that an even larger migration wave and even greater migration and other problems may come in the future, and this only results from the fact that if we look at the history of what our ancestors experienced and what happened earlier, I do not think there is an end to history, but history continues, and we must prepare ourselves for further crisis situations and predict what might happen. We don't live in paradise, but we live in the real world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Mr králíček is next, Mr Lochman is ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u76	I would like to respond to my previous speaker, colleague Letocha. I was on that committee, too, and I guess I heard something else, because I don't think we got the answer you presented, and I don't think it was until April 26th. I don't think that's where the answer came from. And even if it did, it wasn't about answers. We only wanted to recommend something based on our colleague's experience. You've done it in the past, too. We've taken something into account, something hasn't, but nothing's been done here. You're saying that your answer is in there, and I disagree, and I think the only person who can judge us is the Home Secretary. So I'm putting a procedural motion to interrupt this point in the presence of the Home Secretary. [[The minister is entering the hall now.]] And here he is, so I'm downloading the proposal, and I just want to comment that, on the one hand, I admire the Home Secretary, that he's holding the flag alone, because I would have expected that by such an important law... [[Minister Černochová from her seat, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stands before the speaker.]] I haven't finished talking yet, Madam Secretary. I would have expected that Minister Jurečka and Minister Válek would also be there for such an important law, because there are also important issues relating to social affairs and health care. So, on the other hand, I must also be correct and positive towards the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Mr Lochman's point of fact follows, Mr Nacher will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u78	Dear colleagues, as you can see, the Minister of the Interior is here, only Mr králíček will make up his mind. I really only have one factual one, for the President, really de facto according to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Mr králíček said that YES did not have any Interior Minister in the past governments. Thirteenth Minister of Interior of the Czech Republic, in function 13 December 2017 - 27 June 2018 - Lubomír Metnar. [[He's reading from his cell phone.]] I understand that some people may not be so expressive, I haven't been here, but I can read. I understand you may be mistaken, but I suppose you could remember who your minister was when he was from your club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u79	Yes, thank you. Mr Nacher's point of fact follows. You have a word and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u80	I originally wanted to speak to the amendment that my colleague Ryba here has read, and I think I'm going to apply to that to draw your attention to it, because there's hardly anybody sitting here. But now I have to respond to my previous five-calice speakers. You may not have been here, but it has some similar elements. Back then, the covid was news to everyone, and yet, as opposition, you wanted us to really like big details - development, measures to follow up, scenarios and so on. That means, now that the same people are surprised that we want it to happen to something that is also new with the robustness - not that it exists, the robustness is new - but else the migration crises have been and repeat themselves, but the robustness is new, so nobody here says that, so now it's a wonder that we want the same thing, so it seems to me at least strange, colleagues. That's the first point. And second point. He's already started this place, Robert králíček, and I'd point it out. We're here to discuss a pretty important thing called Lex Ukraine II, and when I look at it, there's only the Home Secretary sitting here as always - emergency status, pandemic law, he's always sitting here all day, that's okay, but there are, on average, two to three ministers of 18 from the government. Okay, maybe there's four of them now, I don't know, but 18. Now imagine if four ministers from all over the government were sitting here during the previous government on a standard as important as this, which nobody here is building, we're just asking, you'd be the first to blame us. And you see, we're being generous ourselves. Thank you for having the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u81	Time - thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Letocha, will be prepared by Minister Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u82	I would like to respond very briefly to how it fell here that the government forgot about us. I would like to remind you that I have heard here very often from opposition mouths: the government is dealing with nothing but covid, the government is dealing with covid, the government is dealing with nothing else. I also remember how on February 24th, maybe for the first time in the history of the House, the House was meeting on the day it was convened. This is how we have dealt with the resolution, which has been condemned by Russia's aggression by all of us united, for which I thank you. But since then, I don't think anyone can say that the government hasn't done anything here, on the contrary. The government is handling the crisis, and the opposition is currently grasping at straws, looking for various reasons to instigate a narrative that simply doesn't happen to the government here. But it's not true, the government has mastered the refugee wave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Now, on a point of fact, I ask Minister Rakušan, Mr králíček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u84	Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for the floor. I'm waiting patiently for some comments, and I'm taking notes, and then I'll be calm to answer your questions. Thank you so much for your concern for me, for your care and for your praise. Thank you so much. I can take it. Maybe I can do it without it, but it cheered me up. It encouraged me to listen to our interesting discussions in the next few hours. I wanted to respond very much like my previous speaker, my colleague, through the President. The government didn't do anything? The government, which immediately convened the crisis crew for the weekend, when it was immediately after the event, when we spent the entire crisis crew all weekend at the Ministry of the Interior, to come up with the principle that has worked so far, the National Assistance Centre for Ukraine, the Regional Assistance Centre for Ukraine, defined in detail, three days after the Ukrainian crisis began? We have created a system that works so far, we have created a system that has worked well, and we have created that system as the first countries in the European Union. This means that, on the contrary, our government has proven itself in a fundamental way, and we have been able to cope with the wave that was unprecedented since the start of the refugee crisis. We don't see each other in our mouths when we say these words. And the fact that the mayors and the mayors did it, that the chieftains did it, that's right, they did it great. But the system that works so far has been set up by the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. Mr Králíček's factual comment follows, and Mr Novák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u86	Well, then I won't praise the Minister anymore so he won't have it any harder. I would only respond to Mr Lochman, through the President. You're right, I was wrong, we had a few months of minority government without the confidence of the Home Secretary. And if you want the Minister of the Interior of a minority government who, according to the opposition at the time, was supposed to be shining and drowning, to fix all these things, it's exactly the same as if I wanted Minister Rakušan to deliver these migrations to me in 14 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u87	Mr Novák's point of fact follows. Mr. Lang will be ready. Mr Novák does not want to make a factual point, so Mr Lang follows. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that one of the previous speakers told us that the YES movement had one Interior Minister - yes, it was a successful Interior Minister in that otherwise rather special situation. The YES movement did not have the Ministry of Interior resort, we were a minority government, there was a degree of compromise and I will not mention any more. And how the government can or cannot handle the situation, I'm just gonna read you some data. YES movement in April public opinion research 30.1 ODS 19,6, SPD 14,3, STAN 7,8. And that's it. Pirates 4,6, KDU-ČSL 4 and TOP 09 3.3 %. This is what the citizens of the Czech Republic think in April about how the current right-wing government is ruling and how it can or cannot handle, among other things, the crisis associated with lex Ukraine. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u89	Mrs. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová continues. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for the floor. I must certainly respond to Mr Petr Letocha, through Mr President. Do you know who best handled the first wave of the refugee crisis? Mayors, captains, firefighters, policemen, paramedics, paramedics, and, above all, citizens who provided accommodation provided funds, provided humanitarian assistance. Yes, and they deserve to be thanked. But now comes the adaptation, integration process, which must be held in the hands of the government, by the Minister of the Interior, who is the national coordinator, and at the moment I see that there is chaos, there is a lack of clarity, no one has information. Go out there, ask these people, ask the mayors. Those things just don't work. We don't have a plan here, it's still promising us, it wasn't submitted. And I don't understand how you can say something's right here. You don't listen to Mayor Hřib and the others? Why do we have refugees at the station? Why doesn't anyone care? And other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Your factual point raised Mr Lochman's factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u92	I'll try to speed it up during. I asked my fellow mayors there, as you recommended, through the President. They're happy. Otherwise, I agree with you. Thanks to our citizens, thanks to the captains, the mayors managed to cope with the crisis, and now they got a good framework from the government and good motivation, and they had an example that they could also follow. What the government didn't have time to give them, what the state didn't provide for them, they were able to provide for themselves, and thanks for that, I agree. Otherwise, please don't argue. One of your colleagues says, or one of your colleagues here from the opposition, that the government does it wrong with tent camps and temporary housing, and you say that it doesn't actually do anything about it. I don't know what to choose from. They're either doing something or doing nothing. If they're not doing anything, then of course you're gonna criticize them for not doing anything, but they're doing something, so you're gonna criticize them for doing something. And that's what's happening at the moment. So please don't argue, and if you're so specific. And I'll try to refrain from making factual remarks so that we can move on, folks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. The following is the factual point in fact made by Mr Letocha. Mr. Foldyna will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u94	I'm sorry to take this away from you, but I really didn't want to perform anymore, but I can't do it. Today, on the Security Committee, we were blamed for actually taking advantage of the resolution from the Security Committee. I don't think it's abuse, because that's exactly why we're making these resolutions. And I would like to respond, through you, to the Vice-President, who claims that the situation has been handled by the mayors, the captains and so on and so on. We all fully agree with this, but I also say that you have changed your mind a little bit, but you have changed it late, because that is exactly the 16th April we are on the Security Committee in the resolution - and let me read it - when "the Security Committee takes note of the information provided on the document Setting strategic priorities for the Czech Government to manage the refugee wave related to the invasion of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and supports and appreciates the actions of the government and individual ministries regarding the resolution of the current crisis". The next point is: "Glorifies the work of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic, the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic, individual regions, cities and municipalities, employees of education, non-profit organizations, labour offices and all others who participated in the management of the refugee crisis." I therefore mean that this resolution was approved unanimously, 14 members of the Security Committee, which was then - all those involved were in favour of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. Mr Foldyna continues with a point of fact, Mr králíček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u96	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please stop arguing about whether the government can handle the crisis or not. She's totally handling it, our government is handling Ukraine perfectly. The only thing the Czech Republic can't handle is inflation, precious, all that comes to people, so you don't care at all. You handle Ukraine and some migration crisis super, it's perfect. You just forgot that you were elected citizens of the Czech Republic to take care of them. Ask them what the single moms and the families of the poor are gonna do. What are they gonna do? When they go on vacation, they're gonna get through it, or they're gonna go to suburban camp if they get their turn. They come to school to buy things for their children in August, and in September, the first Christmas balls in Tesco fall on them, and the prizes that come at them, and they pass out and drive you with a stick, because they're sick of it. Your preferences are falling. Can't you see where he's going? We're always arguing about some kind of crisis here. You handle Ukraine perfectly, you do it well, you get commendation when you fly to the United States. But please start working for the citizens of the Czech Republic, they elected you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u97	Mr králíček, Mr Lang will prepare, we are still in factual remarks. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u98	Well, Mr Letoc, through Mr President, on that resolution - you are right that we took note of the document then. And the fact that we supported the government's actions was in a broader context. There weren't specific steps, we had reservations about them, and it wasn't 100%. And I can guarantee you and the Prime Minister that you will never see a single resolution with us again. I'm not gonna support you at all, because you're using him now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u99	Another point of fact is submitted by Mr Lang, prepared by Minister Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor. In fact, my previous speaker said it all for me, and I'm saying the exact same thing. There are 8 government MPs on the Security Committee, there are 6 of us and 1 of SPD representatives - 8: 7. You guys vote anything. For the second time here, the government coalition has really been talking about the abuse of the Security Committee resolution. That was wide, we've always said that we're going to support these things, but let's say we're 70 percent willing to agree on that in some way, out of 30, out of 40 percent we might have a different opposition view. And we've been told here for the second time: what exactly are you going to say when the Security Committee as a guarantee committee agreed to do so? It really wasn't like that. Also, at least a delay for me, as we will be very careful today to agree on something on the Security Committee to the President or possibly colleagues from the Security Committee on the right side of the spectrum, because they are taking advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u101	Thank you. Minister Kupka canceled his point of order. Then it is Mr Žáček's turn, the last one to make a point of fact so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor. I've been provoked, I must say, by expressing my colleague Králíček and others. To the colleagues who are here for the first term - I also made the same mistake at the beginning that I tried to answer everything, every nonsense, every stupid thing that comes out here. In the second term, you're a little distant, and you miss some things. However, I would pour a little more into the fire - memory is a terrible thing, we all forget. The resolution that we are referring to here, which the colleague here has read after me for the second time, was even formulated by the Vice-President of the Security Committee for YES Jirka Mašek. So just so you know what a political mistake you made back then, and today, if you're criticizing us, just criticize yourself. [[18.40 hours]] On the other hand, I'm standing on my own, and I said it on the committee this morning, and I said it on the radio, that the committee should be over-party, and I'm trying to run it out-sided. Of course, the coalition leads there because it has a majority, but I would like us to still, even in the future, reach consensus in the area of national security and make it a majority vote. So please vote for words, colleagues, and don't say in the future that you won't vote for anything, even if it's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u103	Thank you. Last point of fact deleted, we are returning to the general debate. After Mr Mašek was signed in by Minister Válek, but I do not see him in the hall, so next in line, Mr Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u104	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, I finally came to the floor to present some of my experiences here, and to get back to what was going on here from the very beginning, because I'm in the middle of these problems, and I think that - and the Minister can confirm it - we were all the ones putting together the system, okay? It means captains, government. And I'm going to say what I think is true is that the system of national assistance centres, regional assistance centres actually started to work and was set up in such a factually good way. However - and now I come to what I said at our meeting, maybe the third week of our negotiations, that we must record where these people, I mean refugees, are. Today, this deficit, because it has not been done, is being dragged with us as the biggest problem in the management of the Ukrainian crisis. If you look into this dashboard - and I thank you for it, because I think it's the first, say, act from the point of view of data integration in various information systems - we know that we have 350 000 registered, who have, say, a visa for patience, but we have 140 000 refugees within the HUMPO and solidarity households register. The difference is still big. I am glad that we have agreed - and I have agreed with General Vlček - that we will do pilot projects and try to verify at least statistically probabilistically, how it is actually with refugees on those addresses as indicated. The error is about 25 percent in order. But unfortunately, it's average, because of course there are places where these things differed in the order of more than 25 percent and somewhere less. But we're still in this situation that we don't have a clear picture of where these people are, and that's what's gonna cause us trouble. So I have to say critically here, Minister, that this hasn't been handled here. From the beginning, within the framework of the registration of refugees, within the framework of the KACPU, we have not found a model functioning properly to this day, confirming where these people are located, where they are. We don't know, and that's what's gonna be bothering us right now. And now I don't just mean you, but it's gonna bother me as the captain and the other captains, because, of course, it's gonna be a big uncertainty that's gonna burden our system, and I think the first thing to say is how many kids are gonna sign up for school from 1. 6. As part of what must be done - this means registering children from Ukraine to schools - this is probably the first moment when things really show up. But I don't want to be here just from the point of view of being cheaply criticized. I think we want to find a solution to the problem. In my opinion, if we do not have valid data, we will really still be moving in a range that is relatively wide to be able to prepare ourselves wisely for this. There's just no question about it, and we have to do something about it, we have to make it right in some way. Of course, a group of abusers entered the entire refugee crisis. The group is not as large as the amount, the set of those who really needed humanitarian aid, but it is here and to some extent - not to a certain extent, very - complicates our lives. That means, unfortunately, there is a principle that even the 5% - maybe it's not even 5%, it's much less - it just complicates our life and we have to fix it somehow. I can see what Mr. Mayor Hřib here is saying that he wants to do a relocation. Please, we will not do the relocation, we will not order it, it will simply have to take place in a natural way, in a natural way, and it would be good to get ready for it, because we do not know how these people will move into the future, and of course we do not know how many of them will return to Ukraine. And here I'm going to go back to what was said here. The plan cannot be predestined. He really has so many uncertainties that we can't draw up a timetable that there'll be so many people and we'll take care of them then and then. The method we must use must be fundamentally completely different. I read in that strategic document that we have to do it agilely - yes, we have to do it agilely, but please, it's not agilely done yet. So agilely means that we have to move in some kind of iterations, get to the target state and constantly perceive what is happening around me - that is, the data that affects us around us, of course, changes the rules of the game. So what to say in conclusion, and now I'm really going to speak for myself, because then, of course, the club will have the right to decide what it needs. I say that we are approaching a bifurcation point, that is, a point where there is a real threat of instability of the system, at the moment, if we do not accept the Lex Ukraine, and so if we do not accept the Lex Ukraine, we must have an emergency. So please, I think we should accept Lex Ukraine II. I think that this is a necessary condition for us to continue to handle these things, but please, there are a number of things that are not finished and which make life extremely difficult for all those who take care of the crisis. I would have responded here to what was said by my colleague here that we have - that the mayors of the oerpéček are satisfied. Please, that's not true. We have not yet received a crown to compensate for the costs that we have associated with everything that is happening around us. We only got money to accommodate people, but that's not what we're missing, okay? So when I look at it from our point of view, we didn't get a single crown, a single penny, when I say it in English, to cover the costs associated with KACPU. We've been asked to present the costs, and I just want to say that it's already cost us 30 million as a county. I'm not saying this will put us down in terms of cash flow. He won't, we can handle it. I don't know how oerpé can handle it, but I can already hear from the mayors quite intensely talking about the fact that this has to be covered in some way, let's say the costs that result. I'd like to say here that at the time of the covid, which here is given as an analogy with this, it was that we immediately got 10 million each county to deal with the crisis. Like I'm saying, it's not gonna kill us if we don't get that $10 million, but we're in a situation where those costs are gonna go up, and in the next two months, it's gonna be another $30 million. This means that we do not actually have a reasonable way of dealing with these things in the future, and we will have to take the money from other, let's say, topics that we would like to finance. So I would also like us to agree that the rules of, let's say, reimbursement of costs will be defined. When we first met with the Minister of Finance, it was said: Two thirds of the government, one third of you will pay as self-government. This was said because it was consistent with the division of the RUD, which we basically have, the region and the community, together, but so far, please do not do so. Well, it's not happening yet, so I'd really like to do a lot of work for us to start having a really serious conversation about this. Like I'm saying, I don't think it's gonna break any county and any big community's neck yet, but the future is gonna be like we have to deal with this. So, in conclusion, let me say once again: I am in favour of adopting this law, I think that is the only way to avoid chaos, because if there is no emergency situation and there is no lex Ukraine, then our accommodation system and all the systems that are related to it will actually collapse. So I am in favour of adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. Minister Kupka is claiming your priority, followed by Mr Bašta.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refute some of the attacks that have been said here during the afternoon about how the government is not listening to people who are struggling with the current problems of increased energy prices, food prices and everything, and that we are dedicated only to Ukraine. If we could not manage the refugee crisis together, with people, with the whole society, with the mayors of cities and municipalities and with the authorities, we would face much more serious problems today. The fact that at this time more than 50,000 people from those who escaped from the conflict have found work in the Czech Republic means important help for the Czech Republic too, reducing the burden that the Czech Republic faces. And if all these files weren't involved, if the crisis crew hadn't sat down from the first moment, if the government hadn't been able to cope with the current unforeseen crisis with the regions and with the cities and municipalities, we wouldn't have been in the current situation in which we are. And we are arguing about concrete measures that go on to ensure that the Czech Republic can cope with the crisis and manage the resulting effects of the energy crisis that accompany Russia's aggression in Ukraine as well. And I want to highlight a few specific things. It has been said here that we are not talking to the people of Mr Foldyna, who are struggling daily with the problems of the energy crisis, with the effects of increased energy and food prices. Exactly the opposite! We are in daily contact with them, and we know that if we could not cope with the current crisis, the impact on them would be much more serious. I will not repeat here how, for example, specific transport companies have managed to cope with the situation, how they have helped and how they have subsequently helped with humanitarian aid towards Ukraine and with weapon aid towards Ukraine. However, I want to highlight several key moments, key roles of the government and all the elements in what we are facing now. There's a problem here at the main station where none of us can be happy. Whether Prime Minister Vít Rakušan or I were in daily contact with the people who helped those who were there at the main station, and if we did not also make contact with the specific captains, such as Mr Netolický, by contacting the counterpart of the Governor in the Zakarpat region of Čubirka and could not really talk to him about what caused the specific problem, which was mediatically visible, but which, in terms of the volume of the problem, was far from being such a serious intervention for the whole Czech Republic. If Vít Rakušan had not been in contact with his counterpart in Ukraine and the conditions for the transmissibility of the Ukrainian borders towards Schengen had not changed, we would have faced a much more serious problem today. I want to make it clear that all these steps - and now I'm not beating myself in the breasts unnecessarily here, and I'm not saying that the government has secured everything, but I want to say clearly and completely realisticly - that if the fight against the current crisis is not successful, today the effects are much more serious, and anyone who doesn't see it is rejecting a realistic view of the matter. And I understand that the opposition's daily bread is pointing to government mistakes, that it can't handle specific things, but in this case, you're shooting yourself with that unrealistic look on your own feet. And instead of clearly aiming in this case, even the whole Czech Republic, to deal with the following problems, you just point out that instead of a constructive approach at this critical time, you only choose to fight for yourself. It doesn't help anything. I have no need to explain in detail all the individual steps of the government and all the individual measures. When there was a sound of the impact it would have on specific single moms, what a specific impact it would have on families with children, that is what concrete help is going to come to them over the summer, a clear answer to what these people are facing. And I assure you that our government is well aware of what will mean to them the current struggle with energy and the arrival of children at school. And if we hadn't been in daily contact with individual parents, if we hadn't been in contact with people who really live and really fight the current difficult situation, we probably wouldn't have thought of this. So the attack misses the target! They're totally missing the target! If we did not see the obligation to cope with the crisis, to connect and coordinate our actions with cities, municipalities and regions, and at the same time not to see the need to maintain belonging within society, we would not come up with concrete proposals. What am I to recommend to you, how do I play the opposition? I just think it's really unfair, I think it's outgunned when you're criticizing the government in this way, and at the same time you're passing the steps that, in line with the government's coordinating role, a whole bunch of people are doing in the territory from the mayors to the captains. In this respect, I just want to ask for a realistic view of the matter, namely that how the Czech Republic must cope with the current situation. And you don't have to take individual steps and the government's merits to heaven, no one wants the opposition to do that, but please be a little realistic, at least a little pragmatic about what we come up with so that the next few months can be better handled. And please let the future assess whether or not Russia's current government and all the key components have mastered the current situation and aggression in Ukraine. And I am convinced that in this scrutiny of time the current government, but also the current Czech society, the captains, the mayors of municipalities and cities, will stand very well!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u107	Thank you. Your speech raised Mr. Foldyna's factual comment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor. You're touchingly taking care of these people. Touching, really! We are talking about the crisis that you have caused yourself by your political decisions. You refused to negotiate prices for fuel and energy, gas and oil with Russia. Why didn't the Maďar resign? Why does the Hungarian Prime Minister care about Maďar in particular? Why doesn't our Prime Minister care about the Čech? You're talking about mommies. Well, wait, they'll give you those! Wait in September and autumn! You guys are touchingly talking about some beggars so people can come begging you to give them a raise. You should have dealt with the energy crisis, which you yourself politically provoked! Your reaction is inadequate to what's happening! Why didn't the Němec do it? Why didn't the Hungarians do it? Why did you do it? I'd tell you, but you'd probably give me a $100,000 ticket that I'm not decent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u109	Minister Kupka will respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u110	Unlike my previous speaker, I will try a calm but clear response. Please take the train of České dráhy, the first to go to Hungary, and go to see what petrol stations look like, what you recommend to us and what you are doing here to Czech citizens, so that you can really experience what is happening at the gas stations there now, how the queues are standing and how the police ensure that the current energy crisis is managed. But you have kindly forgotten that in your contribution. Well, I'd advise you to keep a little... [[Mr Okamura's repeated loud comments.]] Mr. Okamura here says...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u111	Mr Okamura, I beg you not to disturb the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u112	I only took the liberty of reacting to the previous post, which you unfortunately did not hear, so I just wanted to recommend for the real vision of the situation and for the situation we and the surrounding states find ourselves in, so you also went there to see. Please take this only as an offer, as an invitation, and I assure you that the Czech Government will continue to try to ensure that, not only in the context of the Ukraine crisis, or the crisis that has been triggered by Russia in Ukraine, but also the resulting effects, the Czech society has been able to maintain well and manage all the challenges that are discussed. And that's what I think is crucial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. There is no further factual point, so I will ask the Minister of the Interior who has applied with priority right to speak in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable Members, honourable Members, I will also try to be very factual on the basis of the comments I made here during your speeches. But let me start with one thing after all. You know, sometimes it's good to be here all the time, listening all the time to the statements of all the opposition Members, many times from the same parties, many times to listen to each other's contradictions, many times to listen in the words of politicians from one political side to an absolutely opposite point of view, which are always meant to lead to the same conclusion, and that is a clear criticism of the government of the kind of roundabout - the government didn't make it. All conclusions lead to this, many times only from completely reversed logical poles. We have heard the sentences here - we could not have been prepared for such a crisis. We heard such a phrase a little surprisingly today from opposition mouths. We couldn't have had plans for such a crisis. Well, I'm just saying, after eight years of co-ownership, I didn't really find such plans. That's just a statement. I won't discuss whether you could or couldn't have prepared them. I note that the migration plan for the large-scale crisis spoke of 20,000 people a month. On the contrary, in the B - and this did not happen - sentence, the government, of course, had to come up with a very fast, very fast concept of how to deal with the situation in the beginning and put it into life gradually. And that's what happened. The fact that the National Assistance Centre was created here, the regional assistance centres, it wasn't itself, it wouldn't happen on its own. Someone has to set it up, figure it out, put it in life. Once again, I thank all citizens, through the mayors and the captains, that they have managed to bring this into their lives. Another point I would like to make at the very beginning. You know, it says here, the government doesn't have a system, a strategy, a plan. And what else is the Lex Ukraine II that we're presenting today? What else is this but a result of strategic planning? What is this other than the result of strategic thinking about the whole crisis itself? We are coming up with a series of measures that have strategic problems that have arisen in the context of the migration crisis in the Czech Republic. That's a strategic approach. I appreciate some of the Members and the opposition parties saying from the outset: Yes, lex Ukraine is a step in the right direction, somewhere with some specific reservation. That's natural, that's normal, let's talk about it, let's discuss amendments and so on. But it is a strategic, and I stress, a strategic step in the right direction. There's a whole bunch of not-so-precision statements coming up. Unsolved situation at Main Station - let's tell the facts. At the Central Station, where there were some 600 people a day, now we have some 150 people a day to take care of. The humanitarian town is closing down at the Main Station. One tent city is created in Prague - Troja, where people waiting for the illustration are being transported, another town in Malešice, which of course we also have to take care of, and there are people who basically have the status of homeless people in the Czech Republic. Non-profit organizations continue to work with them on the principle that these people leave the Czech Republic as quickly as possible. Have you been to the Central Station, have you seen what these people are getting into their hands today? They receive a leaflet in Hungarian, which tells them that in the Czech Republic they are not entitled to any social assistance, to any support, that they actually become homeless here. On the flyer, it is precisely calculated what support they will receive in Hungary if they return there. That's what they get. At the same time, they are instructed in the respect of trains going to Hungary, from which bulkheads, from the bulkhead 12, 13. There are representatives of the Ministry of Transport who help them buy tickets and help them to check them out at the Main Station. There are mixed four-man patrols. Two of them are plainclothes cops, a cop, a cop, to make it nicer, no uniforms. Two representatives of the Roma non-profit sector work with them. They do field work at the Central Station, they provide information, they provide help, they provide all the information that this person needs to navigate to the environment where he came from. How come we didn't do anything about it? What's our call to the Ukrainian side, the Home Secretary? What is the work of Ukrainian border guards who are already at the border giving people going to the Czech Republic information that the Czech Republic is capacitively exhausted, Prague completely? They will inform them that if they have two passports, even the Hungarian one, they are not entitled to a crown in the Czech Republic. From that moment on, the currents headed for the Czech Republic have fallen. If someone is criticizing the small town, where we should leave these people, who have a Hungarian passport, it is in quotation marks people who can stay here for this passport quite freely within the Schengen area, but become homeless, because we cannot help them and give them no social assistance. So either they stay asleep at the station on the floor, which we don't want, which has been called by you almost a humanitarian disaster over the past few weeks. Yes, we see it that way, mothers and children really shouldn't be at the station on the ground. Well, what's the reaction to that? They will set up some place where these people can stay warm, with food, and where they work to return to the country of origin as quickly as possible. This is a system that works, and from 31. 5. there is no humanitarian town or any extensive humanitarian activity at the Main Station. There is an entry dashboard where, by the way, representatives of the social protection of children, i.e. a child in need, can be provided with help immediately. Let's not say the situation isn't addressed. You have inaccurate information about the photo shoots you mentioned here. I don't know who he was anymore, you've been talking a lot, taking pictures of people coming to the Czech Republic. From the very beginning, all incoming people were photographed without documents. Once again, from the first minute they were photographed by all incoming without documents. Since 22. 3. were photographed by all over 15 years of age. Everyone, including the children, has been photographed since the end of March. So again, it was inaccurate information that you have at your disposal. This is official information from the foreign police, you can verify it. Please, let us give you the exact facts. That's just a specific response to what's come up here. Of course, those who did not have documents were dealt with via Europol, fingerprinted, other biometric data were identified in Europol systems and identified in the systems of the Ukrainian counterparty that had been contacted. Then we're still hearing the phrase, "You don't know where the refugees are." Well, I'm asking if any country in this refugee crisis could have such a 100% idea? If we have some 75 to 80 per cent of people where they are to be, according to the survey and pilot project, they are data from which we will be able to refine the school record, or any other obligation that will be linked to the payment of some of the benefits, we can specify the data, we will get to 85 per cent of this knowledge and we will not get any further. That's the best we can do. I read the German data today. Do you know how many Němec we receive as a role model have an idea of the exact accommodation of their citizens refugees on their territory? The Germans we're modeling? About 50 percent. They don't have any more. This means that if we are moving somewhere around 80 or 75 percent to avoid exaggerating, we are among the best countries about where we have people. But I understand Mr. Governor, and he's right. They need accurate data, they need new data, the mayors need it. And that is why we are also working on this clarification now, that is why I am going to a meeting with the Commissioner tomorrow, among other things, if the European registration system, which will show us duplication, will actually be operational 1. 6. as Europe has promised us in the long term. Because if we find duplicates there, a person who is registered in Germany and in the Czech Republic, there is a local investigation on both sides of the border, and at that point, if it is found that the person is not there or there, then he may even lose his right to temporary protection, which, by the way, today approved Lex Ukraine will also greatly help us. If this person is tracked down on one side and on the other hand, he can also be dealt with in a way that he is suspected of some fraud. This is another thing that will enable us to make the data more precise, because we will demonstrate duplication within the European system and really find out where those people who prove to be duplicated find themselves. [[19.10 hours]] Our negotiations with the Hungarian side on fast and good and quality illustration - it started to work. I would question it a little quickly, but unlike the original processes, when the Maďar of 100 people coming here told us that the duplication is in units of cases, so today's number is that of the fifty people who went through Hungarian illustrations, we have twelve who have double citizenship. This is a relatively decent capture and it turns out that this method, which we have set up with the Hungarian Interior Minister and Mr. Police President with his counterpart, is starting to work. And all we have to do is listen to the words that we're missing the exact idea. These people live in the Czech Republic, in the middle of the Schengen area, and if they have not fulfilled their obligation to opt out of the system, they have traveled outside the Czech Republic, whether back to Ukraine or another EU country, there simply was no possibility of real discovery here at this time. We are doing everything we can to refine the data, we are doing everything we can to have it at our disposal right when school entries are taking place, which is the first crucial moment for local authorities, whether the mayor or the captains, it is absolutely necessary for them to set up individual systems. Please don't say it's not strategic planning or decision making anymore. Those people were registered from the start. They were registered on the Kacpes, their name, they were identified. If they didn't have documents, they didn't have proper documents, we know who is in the territory of the Czech Republic. The only problem we have here is that many of these people, of course, have moved and have not fulfilled their obligation to report this or have left the Czech Republic. And we, with all the methods at our disposal, are coming to this refinement. The HUMPO and CIS system has been connected since 13. 5. That's why we needed an emergency so that we could also put data from the MPSV system, which otherwise works separately. I thank the Governor, whose performance I appreciate because he has also assessed some elements positively, and this is, for example, the emerging dashboard, which will replace all the required systems of whether a million refugees come or 500,000 refugees come, because he creates individual local models for us and will inform us to a large extent of the number of refugees in the various parts of the Czech Republic to the distinction of individual municipalities. Of course, the data is collected, the data is being precise at this point, but the idea that it could have been flawless from the start, or with some error rate in units of percent in the system, is really completely illusionary, and if you're chasing other countries in different dose settings, then find out. Find out how many other countries are familiar with exactly where refugees from individual countries are located. The Czech Republic is certainly not worse at this point, and I think it is in the first period within the framework of an overview of who is in the Czech Republic and who is in its territory because we checked and registered it from the beginning. Another thing that has appeared here - I am sorry, I have to look here: why we are creating a humanitarian town - I may have answered enough to respond from Mr Koten to some challenge from President Zelenský that he will take citizenship from these people and so on - we are not dealing with Ukrainian matters. I'm not going to worry about President Zelenskyj taking somebody's citizenship or taking somebody's citizenship on the basis of some of their internal rules. I approach the problem under European legislation, which we have implemented. This is lex Ukraine, which clearly defines who is entitled to temporary protection in the Czech Republic. We don't provide temporary protection to anyone who isn't entitled to it. However, we provide it to all who are entitled to it. And at this point, we do not illustrate whether it is a man who has somehow escaped or has not escaped from his country of origin. It's really not our place, even though you've been calling me to it from the start. On the other hand, once again, I repeat the facts: 70 percent of the incoming are women, so it turns out that the female element is dominant here, and from the total number of incoming, it's some 40 to 45 percent of the children. These are the arrivals who are here, and nothing fundamental has changed since the beginning of the crisis until today. Yes, you can tell me that in units of percent men grew up, that's true, but basically the percentage model, in large numbers 70 percent and some 40, 45 percent of children, corresponds essentially to that state all the time, but still the same. I really don't think the government reacted too late. I know you have to say this, you have to talk about it, but we respond to the development that is here in the Czech Republic, we respond to the need to change the humanitarian dose, tighten up the need to tighten up the registration, and come up with a comprehensive amendment to the law. We're not going to come to the Chamber of Deputies every two weeks with a new law, we're always going to collect a file from individual ministries, across individual gesces, and we're going to come up with a package that we're going to introduce here. We will proceed there, surely another lex Ukraine will come, surely there are other challenges, but it is not that we are coming with something late. That's just a little bit of a comment that even in the time period that has passed, in the time that has passed since 24. Two, even a little funny. Then there are notes - modular units. Here is a very specific answer for the Vice-President. We're waiting for confirmation by the Danish party to provide us with 500 units of modular units. The Danes promised us. Until the Danes answer us, and we expect that answer in the coming days, we will not order and buy any more and spend money from the state budget when we can get 500 of those in high quality from the Danes, as they also promised us. Otherwise, for the Vice-President - the MIT has already gathered a list of manufacturers of these modular units, all of which we have prepared, or we have prepared a direct purchase of some for both the remaining and the selection procedure for their purchase, so that we are not labeled as using emergency conditions in any way. But sentence B: We don't need them right now for any need. At this point, we have two tent towns. You can talk about whether there would be better modular units or not, but the tents are of high quality, they are not some tents to which it would flow, or there was cold, and I think they are now sufficient. We could use those modular units in the month of September, if there's a need for some kindergarten capacity in some regions in an improvised way. By the way, such installed kindergartens were already here long before the war and for the needs of Czech children in regions where it was simply needed, and until then we will have it ready. I don't know where we're going. We're waiting for the Danish reaction when we need them, we'll have them. Manufacturers are gathered, asked or bought directly, modular cells will be available, creating a problem elsewhere. Other EU countries and a comparison of the levy - I will please the Vice-President here. This will be discussed next week by EU Interior Ministers in Luxembourg. It is one of the negotiating points to look at some comparison of the level of social benefits in individual countries. We are still comparing ourselves to Poland and Hungary. Yeah, we're up there. However, if we compare Austria and Germany, we are not there above. If we compare the states to the west of Germany, we're somewhere in the good half. So it's not like we're a magnet, as we've heard here several times, just because of the amount of the dose itself. And after we tighten up her extradition, when we approve the Lex Ukraine today, we will certainly eliminate the currents of people who would only come here to gain some economic advantage. Temporary protection - the Vice-President also asked - and its registration within the EU: I will have close information tomorrow. I really hope it'll be very soon. Then another specific information I have researched here and I will quote the answer from the people who created it: the first humanitarian benefit is usually paid immediately after the granting of temporary protection, the second and other benefits are already conditional on actual stay in the Czech Republic. This is because of the time gap between the granting of temporary protection and the increased mobility of persons to the European Union or back to Ukraine. We want to avoid paying benefits to people who do not stay in the Czech Republic. The call for verification of the facts of the stay is sent through the application, there is no sending of any thousands and thousands of paper letters. [[19.20 hours]] At the same time, I would like to draw attention to one thing which has also not been given exactly in the debate. We are not going to give the humanitarian money to those who receive controlled food in state institutions, sanitary facilities, that is, all the provision - in the state guaranteed accommodation, that is still to be said. And here it was pointed out: then those people wouldn't have pocket money or toys or anything like that. It's a state facility where they have very good access to things like other equipment. Here's what I answered, CIS - HUMPO I answered. Temporary protection of 360 000 people - is that true? And I'll try to explain it to all of you. I hope to have more understanding than the Vice-President, who was still unwilling to see my explanation. So one more time. Of course, we had some estimates about the presence and departures of people coming from border countries, that is, from Frontex. Yes, there was a calculation, a working calculation, that the Czech Republic could actually leave 100 to 140 thousand people. That was the Frontex working model, the only number I had at the time. Because it did not seem to us, and it was from the interaction with the captains that we felt and the information that there would be more people here objectively, we entered, as Mr. Governor Vondrák agreed with Mr. CEO Vlček, an inquiry in certain ORPs, where we came to the conclusion that between 75 and 80 percent is in the Czech Republic. From this came an updated number - not from the scare, but from some survey - that around 300,000 people should be found in the territory of the Czech Republic according to sophisticated estimates. It's not some change that I've slept with, it's some kind of procedure in how we get to what you want us to do, to the data we're working with. And we're here to tell you how we get to the data, how it progresses, and this data is reflected in the entire flexible strategic system that is managed by a strategic group under the Central Crisis Staff, which has developed a large-scale document, extensive IT tools and presentations that it is now working on. Each of these teams has a clear deadline, they have a clear assignment, and we'd be happy to introduce it to you, but it's an unfair remark that I didn't introduce anything to the Security Committee today. I promised to introduce it to you when it was included in the Security Committee. The Home Secretary doesn't set up a security committee program - don't be mad at me, he doesn't. If this is included on the Security Committee's agenda next week, I am prepared to give you this information in detail to a large extent. Then I have information here that the state is paying for something to Ukrainian insured people. The state doesn't pay the insured people anything, please nicely, the state pays the health insurance companies. The money will not disappear anywhere, the money remains to health insurance companies, which then pays for health care in the Czech Republic. The state of the insured as such doesn't put anything in the pocket, and the money doesn't disappear anywhere in the system. There were questions about how many percent of people are working on an agreement, how much are working on a permanent employment relationship within the 65,000 people. I'm gonna find out exactly for you, it's our demand for an MPSV, but even if these people were working on a deal, there's a lot of ways to understand that. These people don't know if they'll be here in September. And it's not just that bad Czech employers force them to make a deal. Those people have been actively wanting this deal many times. And then the figure you still want here: how many people are going to go to school, how many people are going to be in the system - we don't know. We really don't know how many people are going to be here in September, and we won't know in August, because if the conflict were to go somewhere, many people can go back, and among the refugees themselves are not yet clear whether they will stay or not in the Czech Republic and for what time. Of course, we do these questions. Yes, we want to use school entries, we plan to do it organizationally, to collect other necessary data, to ask when these people want to be here, how long they want to be here, how busy they are, what ratio they are. And this is all part of the strategic planning of what we have under control, we've been planning it from the start. There are representatives of all relevant ministries in the strategic group, they meet every week, and unlike the previous government, we did not get out of crisis management. We didn't create any duplications of the system, we didn't create any advice that wouldn't be assigned anywhere, but everything is managed by the Central Crisis Staff, which sets up their work units, and those work bodies may be set up by external groups. You know, I'm watching the idea fair here, and that's good, that's the challenge of the opposition, I'm just a little sorry that the moment you guys drew some covido measures here every week, the idea fair didn't come from you. You didn't have them at the time, and then you listened here obediently and watched that the plan wasn't really real and that there was quite a bit of confusion here. And to my colleague Okamura, who has somehow evaluated my house here: yes, I have a house, certainly not as big as you, with a few rooms, and since the beginning of the Ukrainian crisis, I have been housing two Ukrajinec there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. However, I would like to read my apologies. Between seven o'clock and midnight, due to illness, Mr Feranec apologizes to his colleague and from seven o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Svoboda apologizes. I'll remind you that I'm voting with a replacement card number 26. Now, then, to factual remarks. Mr Brázdil, Mr Kobza, will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor. Minister Rakušan, I know it's not easy for you, it's a difficult time. But please, you're talking about how you control everything, that you have strategic planning and everything under control, and yet you say to some Ukrajinec, "We're exhausted now, and then we're supposed to have bad information. Colleagues and colleagues, few of you have read this, but the strategy on page 26 and 27 states that our Republic, doctors, health care professionals, is slacking down and the figures are documented here that practical doctors are only employed by 41 percent, their utilization, their demand, is only 41 percent, even pediatricians have only 83. They have nowhere to jump, they're exhausted, they're old, they can't keep up with their own kids, and you write that it's only 83 percent. Even dentists say they're only going at 49 percent! It's hard to find a dentist today, and we're saying - not us, not me, not you, but somebody set it up, I don't blame you, he set it up for you, I know you have a family and a doctor, we talked about rescue in the last term, I know you didn't do it, but someone set it up for you - they even talk about gynecologists only going 52 percent. Well, then if that information -- we all got it on the table -- if this is the valid information we're coming from, then don't be mad that sometimes we say, well, it's not exactly ideal. Sorry, I hope I wasn't too sharp. I just wanted to say there's a mistake, the mistake is crucial. I don't know who processed it because it doesn't match. That would make our health services look like they have nothing to do with doctors and health care. It's completely different. That's why my amendment, but I already said that. Maybe you'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening. We will continue with a series of factual remarks. Mr. Jiří Kobza will now appear, then Mr. Aleš Juchelka and others. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have listened very carefully to your speech, and I would like to return to it, because it seems that in all the concerns about refugees you have not been informed that there are 20,000 registered homeless people in our country, and the reality is far more trivial. And I would be very interested to know that when you have such care for Hungarian nationals, what you do for our own homeless people, how you take care of them, how they are kept warm, provided with food, they get benefits, just like you take care of the Hungarian ones. [[19.30 hours]] In my previous speech here, I asked some simple questions about the nomad camp you created in Malešice. I'll take the liberty of repeating them. Mr. Secretary? Would you have a moment for me, please? Thank you. I was wondering how, because, as I said before, I am the population of Malešic, how the order in the camp and the surrounding area will be secured, safety, hygiene, sanitation, what it will all cost, and, of course, from what budget it will all be paid. And what interests all the people of Malešic, how long you intend to run that camp there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aleš Juchelka, then Mr Pavel Žáček, is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be very brief, honourable Members, because I have also listened carefully to the speech of Minister Rakušan. So, first of all, modular houses, if you have, of course, somehow put together those who make those modular houses and are from Denmark, I just want to point out that you promised to have an emergency situation by the end of June and that after June you would no longer be able to buy those modular houses without a tender, that the deadline will be much longer due to the selection procedures. Then, as regards the humanitarian contribution, which of course is paid, or any other form of it in other European Union countries, I would ask you to give us the information, because you as a minister certainly have information from the meetings of the EU Interior Ministers about how the system is going there, so I ask you very much not to find out about it, because you certainly have the information, and if you were able to give us this management summary by 6. 5. and I do not have any other material available, so you can certainly put on the table some correlation table of individual using countries in the European Union. As far as 200 or 300,000 refugees are concerned, as you said, 200,000 is your number, 14 days ago, which was said in Václav Moravec's questions. If there are 300,000 of them right now, and we have some 360,000 in the register right now, and the rest has come back, which is actually the 20 percent that we have through the ORP -- here's the difference, so I get it, I get it. And I keep saying, of course, like colleagues, that we lack the strategic plan, because the holiday is coming, and after the holidays some will have to start going to kindergarten, to school, they will have to be adopted in some way, where, of course, we are interested in the strategic plan from the point of view of social, health and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u121	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Pavel žáček, now with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u122	Thank you again for the floor. I just want to confirm the Minister's words that we agreed, because today, for time reasons, we have not been able to fulfill the promise or the agreement that we made at the police president's last meeting of the Security Committee, so we agreed that the next proper committee should be held to discuss the government's strategy in this area on 9 June. The minister wasn't at the end of our committee. I have already signed a resolution on which, as we have all voted, this item is included. We'll give him the two, three, four hours we discussed on the committee today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u123	Thank you, too. I do not see any further factual point, so we will continue the general debate in the context of proper applications. Mr Jaroslav Bašta will now appear and prepare Mrs Marie Pošarová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what the published statistics say. We do not know how many Ukrainian refugees are present, as the Minister of the Interior has said. On the other hand, there are precise statistics in all the offices that handle money. So far, only health insurance companies have released their data. The general health insurance company registered 333 000 refugees, smaller health insurance companies an additional 38 000, so a total of 370 000. However, he has requested temporary protection according to the Minister's statement about 350 000 and there are currently about 300,000 Ukrainian refugees in our territory. I guess I won't be far from the truth if, based on these numbers, I estimate that 20 per cent of refugees perform health and possibly social tourism. I do not see this as good news for several reasons. Those who act like this damage the reputation of those who really need our help. Abuse of the welfare state is an addictive matter, so the probability that even after the war, these tourists will remain in our quotes, not refugees, is quite high. Finally, I expect the government to treat Ukrainian war refugees as its citizens, which means that every social benefit will be carefully and directly recorded and will also take into account their social conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, too. Mrs Marie Pošarová will be next, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u126	Thank you for the floor. A few days after the outbreak of the refugee wave as a result of the conflict of war in Ukraine, I have intersected the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan in connection with some systemic errors and confusion in the system of reception and assistance to these refugees. It was coincidentally at a time when the so-called Lex Ukraine I was discussed here, in which the government and the government coalition, despite our warnings and suggestions, did not make significant comments which were intended to clarify the process of receiving refugees and to make the payment of benefits transparent, fair and resilient against their abuse. Regardless of the fact that these benefits were set too high in the context of neighbouring Central European countries and became an impulse for social benefit tourism. At that time, I asked Minister Rakušan, among other things, how specifically is the registration of Ukrainian refugees in connection with the granting of temporary protection status? Do these refugees receive certain official Czech personal identification documents, such as in Poland, for example, when they are assigned replacement birth numbers, which greatly improves the process of identification, registration and payment of benefits? On what original personal documents is registration carried out? How does the applicant not have any personal documents when a refugee is present? Is there, and how, verification of data communicated by refugees who do not have personal documents when applying for registration? Is it ongoing, and how, to verify the authenticity of the documents submitted, for example, to verify whether these documents actually belong to the person submitting them? Is it possible to rule out the situation that more registration documents cannot be issued to one person? Based on what documents and what data is paid to refugees by the so-called humanitarian benefit administered by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic or by its territorial workplace? By the way, we have also repeatedly pointed out that putting this agenda overpaid and poorly paid to employees of the employment offices is not a good solution. The government ignored this, and our concerns were fully confirmed. My further questions to Minister Rakušan were these: Can you say that the registration system and this social assistance, I mean the humanitarian benefit, is consistently secured against possible fraud and against its misuse? By far, not only by refugees, but by groups and individuals who would abuse them for their own enrichment. [[19.40 hours]] Why am I talking about this? Because these questions weren't self-serving. They were based on the incentives I had from the terrain from my electoral region, from the environment of the foreign police, the regional authority, local authorities, the employment office and so on. And I wanted to draw attention to the great risks of misrepresenting the legislation of registering refugees or rather non-registration, because there was an extremely benevolent 30-day time limit for login, which resulted in an unbearable situation where the government and the Home Secretary did not know how many war refugees were currently present, and they talked about an interval of between 200 and 350 thousand, which is something incredible. The government basically ignored these reasonable concerns and comments, and now after three months, some of them are being incorporated into the law and pretended as if they had discovered America. Shortening the time limit for the notification of residence registration, tightening the payment of humanitarian benefits only after their complete removal to those refugees who are paid by the State for accommodation and meals - all these were suggestions and proposals of the SPD right at the start of the crisis. It is good that some of them have been adopted by the government after a quarter of a year, but it is its outrageous failure not to include them in legislation immediately at the beginning of the refugee crisis, causing the Czech budget and Czech citizens at least extremely high financial damage, not to mention other negative impacts, failure to manage the refugee wave by the government headed by the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u127	Thank you, too. Minister Válek is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I have this time taken the ipad, written comments, and I thank Mr Brázdil for lending me his initiative on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would take the liberty - if I could load my face, which I did - to say what a state insured person is. [[The Minister is manipulating the iPad.]] We're talking about Law No. 592/1992 Coll., when a state insured person is defined as a pensioner - that is, every pensioner is a state insured person. There's one thing that needs to be realized. Unlike the vast majority of countries in the world, we don't have savings accounts. That means, we don't actually do what's done in a lot of insurance, that we deposit part of the insurance into our account, and then we draw it, but what's chosen in that year is spent in that year. That means, for all seniors, for all pensioners, the insurance is paid by the state, for all careless children the insurance is paid by the state. A state insured person is something that is completely unique and does not know most insurance systems in the world, perhaps no insurance system. It is a unique solution in the Czech Republic. Persons receiving - the beneficiaries of maternity benefits are state insured persons, persons caring for persons in the degree of dependence, recipients of benefits in the necessary need, persons registered at employment offices and so on - they are state insured persons and in this law of 1992 it is also defined that they are "recipients of life pension or old age pension for a fixed period, precisely determined by the amount of pension" - state insured persons - and beware, "they are foreigners with a residence permit for temporary protection" - we are talking about the law of 1992, twenty-year-old law - "if they do not have income from dependent or self-employed" - if they do not have income - and then "the applicants for international protection together with children or those who have a visa to bear". It is necessary to realise that this reflected the war in Yugoslavia, the civil war in Yugoslavia, and this law does not state how long the citizens who are using a visa are suffering, which are now refugees from Ukraine - mostly mothers with children fleeing before the war - for how long they are state insured. And we are now using the Lex Ukraine to define the period for which state insured people are. Now let's go back to when the war started. It began at the end of February, that is, the first refugees appeared in the late days of February, and they came to the Czech Republic with this, and to the whole of Europe, with the fact that it was clearly defined that they were actually some variant of a state insured person. In the Czech Republic we have this variant of state insured, in each country it is a little different, because health is not a common policy of the European Union, which I consider not entirely happy, and it has been shown by the purchase of vaccines. The purchase of vaccines together was an enormous advantage for countries like the Czech Republic, and we made a lot of money on it. You have to say that's a good thing. So these citizens fled here, the mothers and children fled here with the fact that they actually live so far in the feeling that the state insured, that therefore the treatment for them is guaranteed by the state basically by March. We are now limiting this guarantee for some time and talking about 180 days. And I'm ready to discuss a possible shortening, we can talk about that, but we have to be careful of one thing in case of shortening. It must not happen for any of them to have this shortening so that in the last two, three, four weeks - and they fled at the end of February, that means March, April, May, three months, 90, more than 90 days - to happen that any of them are pumping in the last weeks of care, now by accepting a shortening, if it shifts the Senate, it will come out as valid, so suddenly it would only become 90 days pumping the insurance and medical facilities that would take care of him, she takes care of him, last week, last week, the week before, she suddenly would not have the care she provided, she would not have been covered by the state insurance. That's impossible. Who we're talking about: we're not talking about children, because the kids are going to be state insured, no matter what, we're not talking about seniors, we're talking about pensioners, if that's who they are, we're not talking about disabled people, we're not talking about those who care about children under two years of age. As I read, they are state insured people according to Czech legislation anyway. We don't talk about those who take care of two children under the age of 15; If they take care of one child over two years of age, they don't belong in that category anymore. That means I'm ready to discuss shortening, some sensible shortening. I would point out that 180 days is a standard in Europe that has now been adopted by a number of countries, but I understand that it is good for them to be able to get to work as soon as possible. I would not very much like it to happen in any way that any of these Ukrainian refugees will get into a difficult situation and will not be provided with health care. And I understand, and I understand very intensively, the objections of various non-profit organizations and their concerns, and I would like to dispel that. First of all, whoever he is, whatever he is, he is not a state insured, acute care - and this is defined very, very, very widely in our country - everyone who stays in the Czech Republic gets. Our health system is very, very social. Not socialist, socialist. He really thinks of anyone who needs acute care, and acute care is defined widely. Secondly, you can object to me - I expected this objection to come in the discussion: and what if an injured soldier comes in here, lying in the hospital, let's say we cut the time to 120 days or 150 days, he'll be in the hospital for 150 days, he can't, of course, ask for the office of work, that is, 151 days will pay for health care? No, it won't. We can solve these cases individually. We can't solve them backwards, we can solve them prospectively, so 90 days is too short. Can you tell me, okay, what about the mommy who's gonna have - and this is where the debate went down - part-time? But that's what legislation thinks. Legislation on state insured persons, legislation on public insurance, I believe from 1999 - this is from 1992 - clearly states how much he can earn on a part-time basis to remain a state insured person, or not to be a state insured person. [[19.50 hours]] I also think about what happens when the time is up and the man doesn't get a job. Here we must objectively acknowledge that part of the refugees for various, very objective reasons will not obtain work. Yes, there are paramedics among them, and I'm really, really trying to get everyone to work in our health system, but it's not that simple, because the education system in Ukraine is different than in the Czech Republic. There may be lawyers among them, there may be other bound professions among them, where restrictions are limited for various reasons. Then what happens? Well, I'd like to reassure nonprofit organizations - nothing's gonna happen. This person comes to the employment office and becomes a standard person who can't get a job, can't be employed, will continue to be a state insured, only in another regime, not in this regime, which defines lex Ukraine. It is only necessary to give a long enough period. And now it's May 31st, if I'm not mistaken if May 31th is, and my watch shows it well. That means, I'd like them to be here two, three months of time when our friends, our moms, are taking care of the kids whose brother died, whose husband died, who are in a desperate situation. I've never lived - and I'm very grateful - in a country where a fool would attack and murder there, raped there, but my grandmother and my mother lived in such a country. Her name was Czechoslovakia and she was attacked by another lunatic named Adolf Hitler. And I wouldn't want to put them through any more stress. Therefore, I would like this transitional period to take, say, two, three months. I understand that this period is going to be during the holidays, I understand that I will want to go on holiday after the employment offices - but I think we might want to, because that period would be long enough to, if they don't find the job, deal with it and become standard state insured people. In any case, as Minister of Health, I will not allow - and I will beg both the opposition and the coalition to always support me in this regard - to make care worse for Czech citizens and for anyone who lives in the territory of the Czech Republic. I always do, just because I'm a doctor, to improve the quality of care and to increase the availability of care in some fields such as pediatrics, practical doctors, if possible. It's complicated in the case of dentistry and we're looking for a solution. And I am absolutely sure that all my colleagues, both from the opposition, whether it be Professor Adámková, Professor Špičák, Dr Brázdil and others, whether it be from the coalition, my colleagues like Vít Kaňkovský, I apologize for not addressing you, but you are colleagues, through the President, so all of these, that is what they want too. Because what we're after, what we swore when we graduated, was the Hippokratův oath, and we swore we'd always work for the benefit of our patients. So, yes, I can imagine some reasonable shortening, and if such a proposal falls, I'm prepared to support it, I don't care if it falls from the opposition or coalition, but please think that there must be enough space. And once again, I warn all those who are afraid and are rightfully worried about those mothers with their children - don't worry! Health care will be provided, there will be a sufficient transitional period and will always be protected by the Czech state and the Czech health care will meet them. Of course, the statistics, and here I dare to respond to that remark, through Mr President, Mr Brázdil - these statistics are changing. It needs to be said who is the physician, who is the pediatrician, who is in that category. I would very much like to thank Dr. Šonka, Chairman of the Association of Practice Physicians for Adults, and I think that the emergence of paediatric UA POINTs is a good step to address the situation. I am extremely glad that all three paediatric companies or all three stakeholders of these paediatric companies have been able to put together together, and do they need to be thanked for that, because what am I? They're the ones who propose a solution. They have proposed solutions, and we will now throw all our money into the training programmes of practitioners and pediatricians so that we can raise them as much as possible not only this year, but in the coming years, the situation will gradually improve. The problem is dentistry and here, and I am not afraid to say it, thank you to the Senator of the Moravian-Silesian Region, and he is a senator for the ANO movement, thank you to Mr Vondrák, who will attend the event, for calling something at the Ministry of Health, where we invited the President of the dental chamber, the President, present and past, we invited the senators and MPs from the county, or the Governor, to invite insurance companies and others, and I want to talk about how we will solve the dentistry. It has something to do with Ukrainian refugees. If dental care for Ukrainian refugees is available, I am 100% sure that it will also be available to Czech citizens. Well, let me sum up: yes, not all of these numbers are exactly accurate because they evolve and change over time, and for that I'm sorry, but that's logical, because every day these numbers change. It is certainly possible to shorten the 180-day deadline, and here I am waiting for a proposal that I could support. It is certainly possible and certain that we must provide maximum care for both refugees and Czech citizens and we cannot make differences between them. We cannot make the availability of care worse for Czech children, for Czech mothers, on the contrary. And it's absolutely certain that even if there is a time period, whether it's 180 days or some other, they immediately become state insured people on the way to work. So there is a zero, zero chance that any Ukrainian refugee, whatever the mother is, whoever the child is, would not have health care in the Czech Republic like any other state insured. I am very pleased that this debate is constructive, I am very pleased that this debate is reasonable, and I am very open to supporting any sensible amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u129	Thank you, Minister, and now duly entered into the general debate, Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna make this as short as I can. I wanted to talk about constructive realistic opposition and how we feel about it, but I'm only going to cut it to two points. The first point concerns Prague and the relocation. I wanted to use the Minister of the Interior and I did not want to use the facts, because I would not respond to anyone in front of me, but I wanted to ask in my contribution how the relocation is the positive motivation, as we all agreed, as I understood from the monitoring of the press, as it was meant, because Prague is really under enormous pressure. [[ask]] At this point it may not be so visible at the accommodation apart from the main railway station and so on, and there is some way of dealing with it, but from September it can be noticeably seen in the school area, in health care and the like, where secondary capacity will not be in Prague. I am saying this here regardless of whether or not I am here as an opposition MP and opposition representative in Prague. This means how the relocation, or positive motivation, is really meant in practice. The second point - and I am cutting it short to conclude - the second point - I would like to apply to the amendment which my colleague Ryba, number 838, has already presented here, which is actually the answer to that, I would call it the principle of collective guilt, so that we can deal with individual cases of some, such as Russian citizens. To me - certainly also to you, because I saw that you were there in a copy - turned for example citizen Ivan Rulík and these are really some personal matters that would simply be individual matters that would be really good to deal with on an individual basis and not punish everyone completely. So it would be good for the government to have some option, as we propose in the amendment - perhaps you will have some other option, so here with it, so that there is no principle of collective guilt, so that we take into account the individual fates of people who might want to get here, and they just don't have a chance to extend the visa right now, and they don't fall into any category. So so many two points, that means relocation in Prague and Amendment 838. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u131	I also thank you, Mr Member, and I am currently not registering anyone with an application for a general debate. I will look around again if that is the case - well, until the general debate, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u132	I was about to leave it to the final word, I didn't want to make any more factual remarks, so I'm just gonna answer my colleague Nacher to make sure that it's solid, that I'm responding to him too. Of course, we have had various methods of motivation examined, which seem inadmissible, even if the logic of the matter was the most effective one - and this was also pointed out to us correctly by Governor Schiller, that it is likely that it will be inadmissible, the legislative group has said so - that means that we would give the amount of social welfare in Prague, perhaps lower than in other regions, to motivate us. However, this is unfortunately unacceptable and the opinion of the legislators is quite clear. Then, of course, it is an information campaign based on real numbers of what the availability of school capacities in Prague is. Here the problem will certainly show up, and of course, with these people right away on the basis of talking to them, showing them where the possibilities in the regions are and so on, as well as having prepared the exact basis within the dashboard, which is being prepared, which is increasing your individual capacities in individual regions. Then, of course, it is better motivated by an address for people for whom capacity would not be in Prague. It's illusionary to think that it's going to be thousands, that we could get to some 8,000 people that we're going to move somewhere from Prague. My guess is we could get to maybe 3,000, but I'm actually saying, now it's an estimate. It would also relieve Prague, but it is equally illusionary to think that the distribution around the Czech Republic will sometimes be in some way completely even. We will have a capacity model prepared to respond as best as possible, we will strive for positive motivation. We have a certain system and how to send information to people, some specific IT solutions are being prepared that could help in some information platform and so on. All this could help. On the other hand, we don't think it's gonna be self-saving. Foreign experience also speaks of the fact that the utilization of capitals, metropolises, centers will be and is always the largest, and it is also within individual regions. Even if we take an example of the South Bohemia Region - I have mentioned it here - the concentration in České Budějovice will always be higher than in any smaller centers in individual regions. But we will do everything we can to make Prague feel better. That's how I talk to the Mayor repeatedly. I won't comment on any more statements now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u133	Thank you, too. I see no one else in the general debate, in which case I am ending the general debate. Do I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor? [[It says, "No! Minister Austrian wanted to speak, but eventually he changed his mind.]] Okay, the Minister doesn't want a meeting with Mr. Nacher. [[With a smile.]] So I am now opening up a detailed debate, and here I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Two Members have applied for the floor. First of all, Mr Milan Brázdil and then Mr Drahoslav Ryba will speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u134	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, things looked different at the beginning, and at the end of our debate, too, the debate leads to something. In the morning, when we met on the Security Committee, it was so very, very hard, at the end of the day maybe we'll come to some conclusion. So let me read the amendment, which I justified in general, and I said that there would be two alternatives, but after the discussion, I acknowledged that it was nonsense that it was not good to shorten it to that much, so let me just load the change. It would be two amendments that I give for myself and for Vice-President Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová. The first proposal would be that in § 7 para. 2 changes the 180 days to 120 - that would be the first - and the second option would be 150. So once again, two amendments for legislation, we are already agreed, that is, 120 or 150. Thank you. I have justified this in the general debate, after all, we have been discussing this for a long time, so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u135	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Drahoslav Ryba will now appear and be prepared by Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u136	Mr President, I too will be very quick. I am signing up for Amendment 838, stating that the reasoning took place within the framework of the general debate. Let me just remind you that the aim of the amendment is to resolve some very pressing and, let us say, human issues where this decision complicates life not only for Russian and Belarusian citizens but also for our citizens. So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u137	And I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and as another Mrs. Mračková Mr. Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u138	Thank you so much for the floor. I also had the opportunity to communicate with the Minister of Health. He will comment on the two amendments tabled by Mr Brázdil here now. I would like to thank him in advance for his helpfulness, for his communication and for the fact that, as I have announced, one of his proposals for shortening should be confirmed. At the same time, I would like to ask, both within the scope and in the scope of this helpfulness: I have prepared some accompanying resolutions here, but by the fact that communication has worked in this way, I would like to propose only two accompanying resolutions. Mr. Home Secretary, the first one, because you've announced today that we're going to talk about this 9. 6. on the Security Committee at the latest, I would only like to say that we are asking - I will call it, Minister, a migration plan - to be discussed by the Health Committee, the Social Committee, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Economic Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, preferably next week...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u139	I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, but I acknowledge that it is an hour later, but I am going to ask you to keep your voice down so that we can understand what proposals are being made. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u140	So that would be the first suggestion. And since he's a committee next week, it could be on that committee week. The point here is that, of course, the plan concerns particular areas, which means that the Minister of the Interior, who also has a lot of work responsibilities, may not be present if it affects education, if it affects the social area, if it affects health care. It would certainly be very good, because there are many things that can then be updated in this document from the experts who are on those committees. Secondly, we would once again like to ask the government to send funds to the regions and the capital of Prague for all the costs associated with solving the refugee crisis. We put the same term there - also by 9. 6. So I would like to propose these two accompanying resolutions and whether it would be possible to vote on these resolutions separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, I want to ask if anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate? I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. And here I want to ask the final words whether the Minister or the rapporteur - do you want the final words? [[Not interested.]] So the final words won't be. We now need to determine the next procedure in the context of the vote and the discussion of this point. I conclude with the second reading of this proposal and, given that amendments have been tabled, we have the opportunity to proceed first, that we will immediately continue with the third reading, with the fact that you do not insist that these amendments be processed and put on the table in writing to individual Members. [[There's no objection.]] In case you don't insist on this procedure, I'll start a straight third reading. [[20.10 hours]] Since no one disputes this procedure, I am initiating a third reading of this press. I will read an apology: Mrs Helena Válková apologizes today from 19.45 to the end of the day for personal reasons. For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act can follow the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, I begin reading the submitted Government Bill and I expect the rapporteur of the Security Committee, Mr Pavel Žáček, to follow the debate with me from the rapporteur's table. [[third]] I am opening this debate. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a third reading debate? I don't see anyone. Mr. Secretary? First, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lipavský and then Minister of Health Válek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I would merely comment on Mr Fish's amendment, which I find redundant. He talks about the legitimate interests of the people, but we simply have to take account of those requests for legitimate interests without being mentioned in the law. And as I understand it, it is motivated by specific life situations of unmarried partners and the possibilities of merging their families. In the follow-up regulation of the government, we assume that we will be dealing with this exception in some way, and I will continue to do so in detail. At this point, it is not appropriate to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. Now Minister Válek in a detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you immensely for the very constructive and reasonable debate, and I would like to thank Mr Brázdil through you. I believe that 150 days is something I can imagine that we would support and warmly support this. I think, therefore, that all refugees from Ukraine, mothers, children, everyone, are left with June and July to deal with the situation. The Department of Health will help those of them who are health professionals to the maximum, really help them to enter the system. On the other hand, they need not fear that anything would happen to them in August, because if they were in employment offices, they would be state insured. I don't see a loophole, I consider this reduction to be 150 days worth of support, and I recommend this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. I'm gonna read an apology. Today, from 20 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate? I don't see anyone, in which case I'm done with the debate. Do I ask the final words whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants the final words? It's not like that. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Pavel Žáček, to introduce us now to the voting procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for helping my colleagues here in the legislation. Based on their detailed monitoring of our discussion, I propose a voting procedure for printing 221 in accordance with Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure as follows: Firstly, to vote on the A1 proposal, which relates to the shortened period of insurance, where in Part Two in Section 15, the number 180 is replaced by the word 120. It is the proposal made by Mr Brázdil and Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová. Secondly, as the second item that we should vote on, proposal A2, where in Part Two in Section 15, the number 180 is replaced by the word 150. It is once again a proposal by Mr Brázdil and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. It concerns the same, which means shortening the period of insurance. The Minister has already spoken of this. As the third proposal B, which concerned an individual approach to the requests made by the citizens of the Russian Federation and Belarus, which was jointly submitted by Mr Ryba and Mr Nacher. It is in House document 838. Fourth, vote in some way as a whole. Fifthly, the proposals for two accompanying resolutions, which we should vote separately. I'd just like to ask Mrs Mr. Vildumetzová if she has a better copy, because what I got is missing some of the words on the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. I ask if anyone has a proposal or a counterproposal for the procedure put forward? I don't see anybody, in which case I'll vote to approve this procedure. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all and ask you for a re-registration. I will now ask the rapporteur to conduct us by voting procedure, or first I will put to the vote on this procedure. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 23; 161 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 161, against no one. This draft procedure has been approved. I therefore ask you now, rapporteur, to show us around, and I will put to the vote on the various proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u148	Thank you. So first - let me just repeat - Mr Brázdil's proposal A1 and Mrs Mr Vildumetzová. Is it enough like this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u149	No one's upset? [[The reaction from the diaper.]] It's: 180 is replaced by 120. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 24, 161 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 74, against 84. The proposal has not been approved, we can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u150	Secondly, we will be voting for proposal A2, once again for Mr Brázdil and Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová, where in paragraph 15, heading 180 is replaced by the word 150.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u151	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 25; 161 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 155, against no one. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved, that we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u152	As a third, we will vote on the proposal B by Mr Ryba and Mr Nacher in accordance with House document 838.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u153	Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 26; 161 Members and Members are registered, for 74, against 81. This proposal has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u154	As the penultimate vote tonight - hopefully - we will vote the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u155	I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on further measures in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops and the amendment of other laws in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, according to the House of Press 221, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 27; 161 Members and Members are registered, for 158, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And I will ask you, colleagues, to be patient, because we will be voting on two accompanying resolutions, and I am making a proposal for us to vote on individual proposals alone. [[20.20 hours]] If no one disputes this procedure, we can proceed with the proposals. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u156	I'd like to ask my colleague to read it because I don't have a complete version of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u157	Thank you. First of all, the first accompanying resolution, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u158	First accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies requests that the migration plan be discussed by the Health Committee, the Social Committee, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development by 9. 6. 2022." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u159	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this accompanying resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 28, 161 Members of Parliament, for 74, against 8. This proposal has not been adopted. Please read the second accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Second accompanying resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to send funds to the regions and the capital city of Prague for all the costs associated with solving the refugee crisis to 9. 6. 2022." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-31-ps2021-025-01-001-001.u161	I thank you, initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion for this accompanying resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 29, registered 160 Members and Members, for proposal 73, against 3. This proposal has not been agreed with. As we have voted on all the proposals that have been made, I am ending the discussion of this point. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, I wish you the rest of this evening, and I'm interrupting the meeting by nine o'clock tomorrow morning.
