ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-16-ps2021-009-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. It is 9 o'clock and I am opening the second meeting on the 9th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you all out first, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your I.D. cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I also say that the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting: Mrs Věra Adámková from 6.15 a.m. to 9.05 a.m. - working reasons, Andrea Babišová - health reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - health reasons, Jaroslav Dvořák, that was from 2 to 6 a.m. - health reasons, Ivan Jáč - health reasons, Lenka Knechtová - health reasons, Jiří Kobza - health reasons, Michal Kučera - health reasons, Lubomír Metnar - health reasons, Ivo Vondrák - that was from 0.01 to 8 a.m. - health reasons and Milan Wenzl - health reasons. Furthermore, Mikuláš Bek apologizes from the members of the government from 1.18 to 8 o'clock - personal reasons, and then from 8 o'clock to 23.59 o'clock - working reasons, Jana Černochová due to foreign travel, Marian Jurečka - family reasons, Helena Langšádlová from 0.01 to 9 o'clock without giving reason, Jan Lipavský - health reasons and Michal Šalomoun - family reasons. Mr Dvořák cancels his apology. Now I ask for peace in the hall. We will proceed to a dignified, serious moment. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask for peace of mind. Before we proceed to the next meeting, allow me to allow the new colleague to take a parliamentary pledge. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the pledge of a new Member for Mr Jan Farský, who has given up the parliamentary mandate. First, I will ask the chair of the mandate and immunity committee, Member Helena Válková, to introduce us to the steps he has taken on this committee, and then read the constitutionally prescribed promise that the new Member will place in the hands of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
