ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u1	31. Proposal by Members of Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala, Jan Hrnčíř and others for the issue of the Constitutional Act on the National referendum and on the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic /German press 8/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as Parliament's press 8/1. I ask that Mr Tomio Okamura present the motion in favour of the appellants. Mr Hrnčíř will represent the petitioner. I ask Mr Hrnčíř to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll try to relax the O.R. a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u3	I will ask my fellow Members to calm down and move their debates into the foyer so that the plaintiff can appear in a dignified atmosphere. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u4	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. So I will briefly try to mention our proposal, which we have already tabled repeatedly, because this House has been debating the referendum for many years and we still have not yet been able to approve this important law. As promoters, we are proposing this law with the conviction that the adoption of a referendum as a commonly used institute will lead to a better democracy in the Czech Republic. The condition is that the question in the referendum is as limited as possible and that citizens' direct decision-making options are as broad as possible. As of 1 January 1993, the Czech Republic lacks a law on a general referendum, although it does not include an article. Article 2 (1) (a) 2 The Constitution indirectly calls for it. The Czech Republic is one of the few European countries that do not have a law on a general referendum in their legal order. Although the Constitutional Charter of 1920 knew the Institute of referendums, the Act on a General referendum, which was to be implemented by Section 46 of the 1920 Constitution, was rejected as a government bill by the National Assembly. Since the 1920 law envisaged by the Constitution was never approved, neither could any general referendum be implemented. A certain scope for the application of direct democracy in the form of a referendum was provided only by the provisions of Art. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ _BAR_ 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and its real implementation became constitutional law No. 327/1991 Coll., on the referendum, according to which only the fundamental questions of the form of the state-law arrangement of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic could be put to the decision in a referendum to the citizens of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics, and only a referendum could be made on the proposal for the withdrawal of the Czech or Slovak Republics from the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics. The referendum could only be written in this single and very specific case, and this legislation was not implemented in the end. The essence of the proposed legislation is that it is the subject of a referendum and not a plebiscite, as is known mainly from the French practice of Napoleon III. and Charles de Gaulle. While plebiscite is limited to the fundamental issues of politics, namely the exercise of state power, such as the Constitution or sovereignty, the referendum is wider and all political issues are the subject of it. The reference should therefore be unlimited in advance, except for the basic obligations of the State of both national and international. The bill is based on natural law and on the constitutional principle that sovereigns in the Czech Republic, as well as in every democracy, are citizens who either delegate their power to their representatives or exercise it directly. The current system does not allow citizens to do so today. Supporters of the purely representative system claim that citizens have voluntarily given their mandate to their representatives, and they therefore have the right to make decisions. However, they ignore the fact that this kind of mandate creates an internal contradiction. Legitimate mandate is a legitimate gift. It can only be donated voluntarily. Volunteering means that a citizen must be able to donate the mandate, but to choose the right to make a direct decision through a referendum. The mandate enforced is a false, stolen mandate. [[20.20 hours]] Every citizen of the Czech Republic has the right to vote in a referendum, which reached an age by the day of the referendum at the latest. A referendum decision is taken if a majority of the votes vote for it, if at least 20 per cent of the citizens of the Czech Republic who are entitled to vote in the referendum participated at the same time. I would like to add the introduction and some sort of treatise or reflection on direct democracy, because we often hear that we are not mature enough for direct democracy. And I'm saying, if that's true, it's high time we brought direct democracy here and brought the nation to it. If we live in a party oligarchy, which will monopolize for citizens, we will never raise citizens to account for our own country. President Beneš said: for democracy the nation must be advanced and morally strong. Of course, it's better when people have moral and ethical values, but if they don't, then we have to have a strong system that can reflect, correct our moral flaws again. If I know that crooks are coming into Parliament, then I must be able to control and influence their actions, and not give them a blank check for years of governance without any means of correction. Our Slavic and Germanic ancestors lived in direct democracy. Indian tribes live in direct democracy with the Amazon and other tens of thousands of Indián in Mexico. If they can do it, we can do it. The Švýcar have lived in direct democracy for centuries. Direct democracy was also introduced by the Paris Communards in Paris in the 19th century. No one wondered whether citizens, members of the family, communities or tribes were mature. Reflection was and is guided differently: Are we equal in rights and obligations? Yes. And what's crucial? If we are not mature, then is it better to live in some dictatorship or imitation of democracy? Why? Does anyone feel that representatives elected by immature voters will be more mature, more responsible and moral? In more than 20 years, we have tried the elite government without responsibility. Does anyone have the courage to say that elites are wiser than citizens, morally, decently, honestly? On the contrary, many of them trumped even the biggest gangsters. The robbery of state property from the time of privatization seems to be unsurpassed in history. The country has lost not only billions of assets, but it has deprived citizens of all the illusions of its elites. The word politicians became a vulgar word and synonymous with thieves and corrupters. I beg all of you, colleagues, let us finally move forward the referendum law in the approval process. We can use it as a carrier, we can accept amendments to it, but if you reject it, we will not be able to get to it again for a long time, and I think the Czech Republic and its citizens deserve it to be approved here at least during this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u5	I thank you, too, and I ask you to take a seat at the rapporteur's table and the plaintiff's table. And now I will just inform Mrs Urbanová that she is signed up for action, but it will be a mistake, because we are not yet in the debate. And since the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Milan Feranec, is excused, we should vote to change the rapporteur that would become Mrs Válková. So I will just call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, and I repeat that we are voting on the amendment of the rapporteur. [[Noise in the hall.]] I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the rapporteur for first reading being Mrs Helena Válková? Who's against it? I state that in the vote number 72, 141 present is registered, for 85, against none. So the proposal to amend the rapporteur was adopted. I will therefore ask Mrs Válková to present a news report, and I ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down, so that we can really hear the rapporteur, who has taken up the rapporteur as a substitute. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u6	Thank you, Madam President. There isn't much to report so far. The MP's proposal was presented as one of the first to look at it numerically, 21. 10. has been sent to Members as press on 8 November 2021, on the 19th... no, it was sent to the Government on 19 November and on 15 December the Government sent its opinion. The Government's position was disagreeable, the reasons for the disagreement were mentioned more, and I will, if necessary, comment on them, but as rapporteur, I am merely stating that you, as President of the House, have recommended for discussion on 4 January, designated Mr Feranc's rapporteur and proposed that, logically, this parliamentary proposal should be ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee in the light of its content. The further discussion of this parliamentary proposal was only possible practically from Christmas, which, of course, was not possible because it was December 25, and the press was on the agenda of the 9th meeting of 15 February. So now we are coming to a stage where for the first time we come to this House's press in the framework of a general and detailed debate. That's all for me so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u7	Thank you. I also ask you to take your place, rapporteur, at the rapporteur's table. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Síla, Mrs Lesenská, Mrs Válková, came forward. I therefore ask the Member of the Síla to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to comment on the general referendum, and I would like to point out that if we want to talk about a general referendum, we must first define what it is and why it is a fundamental condition of authentic democracy, the definition of which is a form of government, in which a minority of the majority is subject and the freedom and equality of citizens is recognised. At the same time, the ruling liberal democracy is holed up with principles: political pluralism, equality before the law, petition law, the right to a fair trial, other civil rights and freedoms and civil society. In fact, it is based on classical liberalism with three fundamental rights given by God - the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to protection of private property. However, it excludes positive rights such as various demands on education, health care and social care. The representative democracy itself was already mentioned in ancient times, and Aristoteles recommended a system called olitheia, when there was a smaller group of elected representatives who obtained mandates in free elections or lots, but these mandates were very short, at most one year. The representative parliamentary democracy, the mythical pillar of the democratic political system of the Western world, mainly in the 21st century, allows citizens to vote only on political parties, not on their programmes. After the elections, these political parties can make coalitions and then make excuses for not fulfilling what they promised before the elections, because the coalition partner disagreed. With this mechanism, representative democracy does not negate the will of the elector. The main functional deficits of representative democracy are the passivity of citizens who have found that there is no point in going to elections at all, because they cannot influence anything, lobby of interest groups, nepotism, protection, but, on the contrary, by referendum, direct choice and removal of politicians, these fundamental deficits in indirect democracy can be addressed. And that is why I will mention a general referendum on why we are leaning towards putting this instrument of direct democracy in our order. [[20.30 hours]] A general referendum. Why a referendum? Firstly, with a sufficiently large and well-chosen sample, average people in quotation marks are more successful in their estimates than a small group of experts, and this concerns above all the most complex decision-making cases. People make decisions not only on the basis of information but also their life experiences. There is a great difference between experts who make decisions based only on information. The advantage of expert decision-making can be the possibility to study the issue well. But experts may have a diametrically different view of solving the same problem, so it is very difficult to determine a question so that people understand it. The main disadvantage is the possibility of corrupting experts. Lobbists are usually well funded, and every expert has a price. Politics is always about someone's interests, and public interest is in last place. The representative democracy is easily corruptible, working directly contrary to the interests of the electorate. Few realize that this instrument is exploitable just as much as anyone else. The voter is interested in directly influencing strategic decisions by an instrument called referendum, because there is a significant difference in whether he decides alone and millions of other voters, and not two hundred anointed and potentially corrupt politicians. On the other hand, the intention of the referendum is best eliminated by the question. There must be a political consensus and control of the formulation of questions in order to be well formulated. In Switzerland, the referendum is the most frequently used way of popular vote from all countries, and the referendum is only 5% of the decision-making process, 95 percent of the decision-making process is reserved for representative democracy institutions in Switzerland. The decision taken by the referendum is binding there, therefore it is not influential by other political institutions, and in this respect, the sovereignty of the Swiss citizens alone is over the classical representative bodies. Parliament has only legislative, executive powers, and is therefore a sort of government assembly, which then mainly handles administration. Moreover, citizens are directly involved in the process of taking key decisions through not only referendums, but also folk initiatives with legislative reach and veto form. In practice, there is only a combination of direct and representative democracy in the world, with greater predominance of direct elements in the form of semi-direct democracy, such as Switzerland in particular. It is clear that in parliamentary democracy, politicians will not cut back on their decision-making powers, so all political representations have not had a chance since 1989 and have not had the will to agree on the terms of the referendum. All political representations have been waiting for something since 1989 and have tried to put this proposal under the table for a general referendum. We need to think and realize that, unfortunately, Godot is not coming, the hus is burned, and probably not even a magician. It's up to us. Please take the handlebars and try to devote some of your competences to people - vote for you or agree to the terms of the general referendum so that it is actually applicable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u9	Thank you, too. Mrs Lesecká - Lesenská, I apologize, and Mrs Válková follows. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u10	Thank you. Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, as my previous speakers have said here, I would just like to highlight some of the moments presented to the press. The proposed bill on referendum allows citizens to vote on everything that does not contradict the main law of our state, and that is the constitution. In the referendum, decisions will be taken on matters of internal or foreign policy of the State with some exceptions on which voting will not be possible, such as decisions on fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by constitutional order, on the state budget and on matters of intervention in legislation or tax administration. The proposal stresses that the question for the referendum should be clear, understandable and formulated in such a way that it can be answered by the word 'yes' or 'no'. In one referendum, more questions may be raised in the same matter if these questions are not in conflict with one another. Opponents of direct democracy spread the myth that there will be a vote on every stupidity. But experience from all over the world suggests otherwise. There are referendums in Switzerland from time to time, and more questions are being put to the vote at once. Citizens do not demand a referendum on each of the hundreds of laws that Parliament adopts each year. However, it can be assumed that once a year several important issues will be gathered that interest citizens. The referendum does not replace Parliament, it serves as a control of its excesses. Laws around the world assume that at least 1 to 2 per cent of voters need to vote on the issue in order to hold a referendum. This means that the citizens will collect enough signatures of eligible voters on the question they want to vote on for their own money. In this way, there is no risk that anyone or at any time or that the public budget is unduly burdened by the vote. It must therefore be an issue which will arouse the interest of a sufficient number of citizens to encourage them to discuss it. Only then, with a sufficient number of signatures, can a referendum on the law or an appeal policy be written. The reference will be able to be called bottom-up, i.e. from the bottom of citizens, which is crucial for the elements of direct democracy. In particular, every citizen of the Czech Republic will be able to propose an event if he has reached the age of 18 on the date of the start of the collection of signatures. His petition must be signed by at least 250,000 citizens of the Czech Republic, who also reached the age of 18 on the date of signature. The period for the collection of signatures on this petition shall begin from the date of commencement of the collection of signatures under petitions and shall end 12 months after the date on which the decision of the Constitutional Court, by which the proposal to hold a referendum with constitutional order and law, became enforceable. Anyway, the referendum will not be able to be called bottom-up, but it will be possible to make a proposal so-called top-down, i.e. from the top, and the Parliament of the Czech Republic will have these powers. The majority of all Members and the majority of the Senators present will need approval to submit a proposal. This combination of both ways of principles will ensure that the referendum can be triggered by both politicians in the leading positions if they perceive that it is necessary, but citizens will also be able to initiate a referendum, which is crucial for fulfilling the definitions of the elements of direct democracy, because really the elements of direct democracy cannot be just in the direction of government or parliament. In order to ensure that any proposal for questions in a referendum would be in line with the constitutional order, the Constitutional Court will examine the proposal for a referendum. A proposal from the Constitutional Court may be submitted after the petition has been signed by at least 50,000 citizens of the Czech Republic who reached the age of 18 at the date of signature. From this point of view, any objections that it will be possible to vote on issues that may be contrary to constitutional order are therefore completely misguided. [[20.40 hours]] As I have already said, in the SPD, we consulted lawyers to ensure that the proposal of Czech legislation fully complies and that no question in the referendum could cause any problems in the law or threaten democracy. The very announcement of the referendum will then be under the authority of the President of the Republic, who will declare a referendum within 30 days of the date of verification of all the conditions fulfilled in the law. The referral would then take place not earlier than 90 days and no later than 180 days from the date of its publication. At the same time, if a referendum should take place in the last six months of the term of office of the President, Parliament, the European Parliament or the representatives of local authorities, the President would declare a referendum so as to take place together with the new elections to these institutions. This point in the bill will mean considerable savings in funds for the state, while ensuring that there is no risk that citizens will be exhausted from the need to vote in elections and then separately in referendums. A large part of local referendums are already working on a similar principle today. So I do not think that any referendums are costly for the Czech state. What is important, however, is that the decisions taken in these referendums are binding on all institutions and persons, including and their amendment or cancellation is possible only on the basis of a new decision in the referendum. The Government shall implement or ensure the implementation of the decision taken in a referendum under its responsibility. We therefore do not propose a type of referendum that would be non-binding, and the government and Parliament would not have to abide by the will of citizens. The government will be in charge of making citizens' decisions, but it cannot ignore the will of the citizens themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u11	Thank you, too. So now, Mrs Helena Válková, the last one entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'm not in an easy position. You know that, in the past parliamentary term, I have always firmly held that a national referendum needs to be adopted in the sense that it would be good to adopt such a constitutional law, and we have tried to enforce it. This has ultimately failed for many reasons, there is probably no time or energy for them and no desire to discuss it on my part, but I consider it a mistake. Perhaps this failure has also affected the fact that we have also been accused of the fact that the national referendum law has explicitly not been included in our programme of the YES movement in the elections of 2021, given the difficulties we encountered in promoting it, and maybe the skepticism of the part of our movement against the Senate enforcement. Nevertheless, I think it is a good thing that we are talking about this issue here, and, like the SPD, I think it is perfectly legitimate to open this issue. I suppose that, for example, the Pirate Party will not object to the debate about whether or not it is moving, especially in today's - I must say an adjective - the time to open the issue of a national referendum, when citizens could express themselves on some issues and show us the way, or at least show us how and in which direction we should not go. And I am thinking, however, of nothing more than dealing with the situations that the current crisis in Ukraine and with the immediate surge of refugees in the Czech Republic, which we accept on the one hand and we are trying to help them, on the other hand, we will certainly have to deal with the different moods that could also be possible in this way in the context of a national referendum if fundamental laws were to be adopted, which should affect the normal lives of our fellow citizens, to regulate. After this somewhat philosophical and political introduction, allow me to comment on what we have put forward here. You know very well that at the end of 2019 we had a rather well-developed proposal, which was known as the House Press 111, as amended by the comprehensive amendment of the then members of the ČSSD, which came closer to, say, the consensual perception in the House, and we were not far from voting for it at least on the House's ground, even knowing that it would not pass in this form in the Senate. I remember at the time - there were more - but the motion to dismiss was made by Dominik Feri. Anyway, it didn't work out. We now have another proposal which, in some respects, recalls proposal 111 - House press, so I agree with Mrs Lesenská, through you, Madam President, that this proposal has certainly been consulted by lawyers in relation to other SPD proposals. On the other hand, I am not surprised - unfortunately, in parentheses - the opposition expressed by the government when it does not recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to accept this proposal in December 2021. The point is, I think, especially - and I am not going to quote what you can all read in this dissenting opinion, but it is more about my views which I have collected and I have supported arguments from the last parliamentary term when I compare the proposal that lies before me - because the proposal excludes or at least narrows down the legislative power, although it certainly was not its purpose, because it limits the legislative process by giving the possibility for quite generous laws to be adopted in the national referendum. In the referendum, according to the petitioner - he says it here, I will say it so-called people hard - a citizen could vote on issues not only internal but also foreign policy, and he could also agree in the referendum to ratify or withdraw from the international treaty. I see it as one of the most problematic articles. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2, which states: "If, under this constitutional law, a referendum is held to give consent to ratification or to withdraw from an international treaty, the consent expressed in such a referendum shall replace Parliament's consent.' Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative In fact, if the wording were applied literally, it would, in the case of the so-called legislative referendum, be in accordance with Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 which states that the amendment or repeal of the decisions taken in the referendum is possible only on the basis of the decision in the new referendum - it is not new there, but it means new - there was a situation where, in order to adapt the relevant law - and I am stressing this, I also said so at our parliamentary club - and possible legislative defects, not to mention amendments, it was necessary to adopt a decision in the next national referendum. Then this is all the more true when in Art. 10 states that a referendum may take place at the earliest three years after the date of the announcement of the results of the vote in the previous referendum - a combination of two articles, or an almost absurd situation. [[20.50 hours]] Moreover, the proposal does not exclude the adoption of a constitutional law from the scope of national referendums, even under the same conditions under which laws of a normal and not constitutional nature should be adopted. At least this is the way in the wording presented now for the assessment of the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, this very low kvorum - we are here, and I will remember it, because it helped us very much back then, the former Member, Mr Vojtěch Pikal - discussed the establishment of a quorum for the validity of the referendum decisions, and in the end I think we also reached a very reasonable consensus. I understood the math calculations, too, and I identified myself with them. Here in this proposal, a decision should be taken if the majority of the votes voted in favour of the proposal if at least 20 per cent of the citizens of the Czech Republic who are entitled to vote in the referendum participated in the referendum. In view of the key nature of the issues that we may not have - but could have - dealt with in a national referendum, this is really very low and therefore very inappropriate, or I almost want to say unacceptable percentage. So for us, for the YES movement, opposition - I dare say not because we would not support a national referendum in a quality form of constitutional law, although we do not have it in the programme, but in this form it is unacceptable for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Chairman of the club STAN Josef Cogan has yet to sign up with priority rights. Please, Mr President, you have the floor, and I ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would certainly follow up here, and I could certainly underline the words, through Madam President, Mrs Válková, particularly in the legislative interpretation of the referendum. We too have these exact reservations. Otherwise, it must be said that the referendum is indeed a very important institute of democracy, but it must be used very carefully and cautiously, indeed in the most important matters. I know that this is traditionally their core point for the SPD, so it is a bit sad that it treats this point so recklessly. The referendum is a really serious thing. Indeed, the SPD proposal has a very low number of signatures required to hold a referendum, only 250 000. They're 3 % of the eligible voters, it's about half the voters they have, so maybe they're betting on it. I don't know what's leading them to this. It may also be the purpose of the proposal for a cascade of referendums to set us up not by Parliament, but by the whole state. We really need to say that this proposal allows legislation to be approved in a referendum, and that is when we see in the House how difficult it is to adopt legislation, how very difficult it is to fine-tune, and yet it comes back here, there are amendments - that is simply a hugely difficult matter, we ourselves see it here, and that is, of course, the people who are much closer to it and who are dealing with it today and every day. And it must be said that the fact that it is not theoretically excluded that constitutional laws should also be passed here, except for decisions on fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by constitutional order, so this is really absurd, especially with regard to the relatively very low standard for the binding nature of the decision taken. The proposed validity of the referendum is already 20 per cent of the eligible voters, and the binding nature of the referendum is proposed at 11 per cent of the eligible voters. This is indeed the number when we will be leaving the European Union, NATO, when we will be changing the constitution - this is really absurd. The design of the Constitutional Court is also very inappropriate in this matter, when the Constitutional Court examines here the proposal to comply with constitutional order and with the law. Will the Constitutional Court, even though it is a judicial authority to protect constitutionality, also check compliance with administrative conditions? For example, will it verify the authenticity of petents' signatures? I think - my colleague has been said here before, the word absurd - it's just really absurd. In fact, with all this in mind, I propose that this proposal be rejected, and I must say that I would also respond, through the President, to my colleague, Lesenská. By rejecting the proposal, we will also protect SPD colleagues a little, because she said here that there should actually be a recall of politicians, and I believe that if a referendum could be called off by politicians, then no one really sits here in time from SPD colleagues. So I think that by rejecting them, we are going to help them very much, say, in democracy, and that is why I am presenting this proposal to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u15	Thank you, too. Now are the actual applications - or do you, Mr President, prefer them? In that case, the actual applications shall take precedence. You want facts? So you are the third in the order, your colleagues from your club are previously logged in. First, then, Mr Koten, followed by Mrs Lesenská, then by Mr Okamura. So you're downloading both factual? Okay, and now with priority rights, President Okamura, that's what we agreed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u16	Of course, I will not comment on the total ignorance of the President of the STAN, I am sorry, I will not remember your name now, but as for the referendum, I will just remind you that the Czech Republic is only one of the two countries in the European Union - the other one is your famous Cyprus, where you have sponsors from the tax haven, which you have not yet admitted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u17	Through me, please. Through me, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u18	I don't know who I'm calling right now because I can't remember my name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u19	Mr. Cogan, I'll advise you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u20	Yes, through you. And I wanted to say, so we are really one of the few countries that has this democratic deficit. That's one thing. The second thing is that there has already been a national referendum in the Czech Republic, I am struck by your total ignorance, and it was a referendum on accession to the European Union, which was completely without a vote, just for your information - you are talking about the kvora. Yes, it was a government-induced referendum, the government law, but there was no vote of participation, so even one person could decide to join the European Union. This means that we could have made decisions about joining the European Union without a vote, but if the referendum had the same way and in the same guard, so that there would be a referendum law, you wouldn't like it anymore. So that's what's bothering me, if you meant it, or if you wanted to show up, make a complete fool of yourself here by not knowing what's going on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u21	I will indeed ask you to address the Members through me! And it's no excuse you don't know the name. It is stated in the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u22	Yeah, well, you found yourself in it that you're still calling on the middleman. I see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u23	I am in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. I believe you respect that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u24	That's right, and I know him. So that is one thing, so we are one of the two countries in the EU that I suspect does not have a referendum. The second thing is that there has already been a national referendum here completely without a vote, so it suits everyone, and now you don't want to allow citizens to do it again. The third thing is that this country, Mr President of STAN, through Madam President, does not belong to politicians. She belongs to the citizens, you know? And the fact that your party is making a fool of an ordinary citizen and that it suits you that citizens come to the election only once every four years, and then you want basically citizens to shut up and step, that's just not right. [[21.00 hours]] As far as appeal is concerned, it's total ignorance, and I don't know if you want to be completely ridiculous, don't be mad at me. The opt-out of politicians takes place in such a way - to explain it to you at all - the model we are talking about is that it requires, first, a direct choice of politicians, that is, it can be applied to the Senate, and that appeal is basically a local referendum. So, for example, the model is that when people - so there's a need for a direct choice, the institute, and then there's an appeal - and the model is, for example, that when people collect 10 per cent in a petition, over 10 per cent of the eligible voters in that constituency, they can basically call for new elections, and that policy, which is elected by direct choice, must be at least one vote more than the number of votes they've been elected so that it's not exploitable. So it's a logical model, you're just showing that you don't know which one's beating. It's sad that you're the chairman of the second-largest government party, so it would be good to get a little education. There's a series of books about how it works in the world, and then say something. You just don't want a referendum, you don't want democracy, you're looking for excuses, and if you're saying that you might like a referendum in some form, then come up with your government law, put in that high bargain and let's at least adopt some referendum law! But you're not gonna design one, and that's the point! They're just excuses!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u25	I remind you that in one minute, perhaps less than a minute, the day may be over, but now, with a factual remark, Mr Staněk is registered, and I apologize, but if we fail to do so, I will interrupt you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u26	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I'm sorry, if we don't make it, we're definitely gonna keep doing this...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u27	And we didn't make it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u28	We didn't make it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-022-031.u29	Mr. Ambassador, you'll be able to sign up next time, but I'm gonna have to cancel our meeting tonight. On this point, we will therefore continue to have some of the following meetings. So I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you the rest of the day. Goodbye.
