ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-003-100.u1	100. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to express its consent to the ratification of Appendix No. 1 to Host Agreement on location, support, privileges and immunities between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Agency for the European Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), signed in Prague on 27 January 2012 /German press 194/ - second reading Please take the floor - I have Minister Kupka here, but Minister Baxa will appear to represent him, so I will ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-003-100.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, you have before you the proposal to negotiate Appendix 1 to the Host Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Agency for the European Global Navigation Satellite System on the location, support, privileges and immunities signed in Prague on 27 January 2012. This material follows two memoranda of understanding concluded between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Agency of the GSA, respectively EUSPA, last year and last year. In May last year, as a result of the approval of the new regulation, the EU space programme was transformed into a new EU space programme agency, or EUSPA, by the original GSA for EU satellite navigation systems. This significantly extended the scope of the original GSA from satellite navigation to all services of the EU space programme, including the Copernicus Earth Observation System, the GOVSATCOM Government Satellite Communication System and others. The importance of the Agency and the scope of its activities have thus increased substantially. I remind you that this is the first and only agency of the European Union with its registered office in the Czech Republic. Besides prestige, the agency's headquarters in Prague also means direct financial benefits for the Czech economy. According to GSA calculations, it amounts to hundreds of millions of crowns a year. These are carried out in a variety of ways, for example through easier possibilities of cooperation and consultation with EUSPA for Czech companies, concentration of experts and meetings within the agency's events, attracting foreign companies' branches to the Czech Republic and congress tourism, which is gradually coming to life again. In connection with the creation of the EUSPA, it is possible to expect further multiplication of the benefits for the Czech Republic compared to the benefits realised from the location of the GSA headquarters. However, an increase in the Agency's responsibilities and tasks will require higher staff and technical resources, for which the current building provided by GSA on the basis of the original host building will no longer be sufficient. The number of employees will increase gradually over several years. According to the Agency's calculation, their total number will increase by more than 200, i.e. to a total of approximately 570 in 2026. At the same time, negotiations are currently taking place at EU and European Parliament Council level on another EU space system for secure telecommunications connections. It is intended to be a system of hundreds of satellites, in which the EUSPA is to play an important role. The total number of EUSPA employees in Prague, as well as the benefits of the Agency, will probably be even higher. After joint negotiations, representatives of the Czech Republic and the Agency concluded that the most appropriate solution would be to secure a new building for the purposes of EUSPA in the wider centre of Prague and to provide the Agency's data centre with the services of the secure Centre for Shared Services in Zelenč. Both parties expressed their intention to proceed in this way through two mutual Memorandum of Understanding. To this end, the Government proposes, in the form of an amendment, to negotiate an amendment to the original Host Agreement between the Government and the Agency. The subject of the amendment is to allow the transfer of the EUSPA headquarters to another location in Prague and the possibility of providing the EUSPA with a data centre or other necessary premises that will be subject to the same regime as the Agency's headquarters. At its meeting on 9 June 2022, the Foreign Committee of the House recommended that the Chamber of Deputies agree to ratify. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-003-100.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now please the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Jiří Horák, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 194/1. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-003-100.u4	Thank you. Beautiful day, ladies and gentlemen. The Foreign Committee discussed this material at the 10th meeting of 9 June 2022. I would point out that the extension of the agency and the extension of the headquarters will of course bring not only prestige to the Czech Republic, but the expansion of science, research and other investments into Czech companies, so I would say that this is very important, and so the foreign committee recommends The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. agrees to ratify Supplement No. 1 to the Host Agreement concerning the location, support, privileges and immunities between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Agency for the European Global Navigation System, signed in Prague on 27 January 2012; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur' et cetera... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-003-100.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Now, before we open the debate, I will read the apologies. Mr králíček apologizes from 15 o'clock for family reasons, Mr Hubert Lang all day for health reasons, Jan Richter until 10.30 for health reasons, Sadovskýý Petr from 9.20 o'clock for work reasons and Minister Anna Hubáčková from 10 a.m. to 11 for work reasons. And now I am opening the debate, which was the first to be heard by Mr Strýček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-003-100.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to be on the brink, beyond what has been said here from the mouth of the Minister and the rapporteur, as the club rapporteur, also made a few comments on this. We, of course, will support the Yes Amendment to this Treaty as we supported it at first reading, but, of course, the title is very noble, a lot of people don't know what to imagine under it, so allow me a few comments to make the matter clear. The European Union Space Programme Agency is basically the successor of the European Global Navigation System Agency. It has its seat as the only European Union agency in the Czech Republic - which, of course, is a prestigious matter - here in Prague. Currently, as I understand from the presentation report of the Ministry and the media, its only residence is sought after Prague. As I said, it is the only European agency that is based with us, and I repeat again, it is a very prestigious matter. Of course, I would not look for a purely financial return or benefit in this regard, it is rather a mediated economic advantage and will reach Prague in particular. The need to search for a larger building for this agency is given by the extension of the Agency's competence, because apart from the existing agency, which is satellite navigation, all services of the EU space programme will also be newly managed. This includes, for example, remote exploration of the Earth, observation and monitoring of the universe or satellite telecommunications. Of course, this will require about 200 people to increase staff, and this will, of course, involve the need for new premises and new buildings. In addition to the building, however, a secure data centre will be needed, and the supplement to this international contract is therefore intended to allow the agency to move within the capital city of Prague. What is clear, however, is that the timetable is already pushing very hard, because these new premises are needed from 1 July 2023 and the move will start about half a year later. As I said before, there is no need to look only for the net financial contribution, because of course the amendment agreement has an impact on the state budget. Let us not say that, because according to the host agreement both now and after the entry into force of Appendix 1, the agency pays a maximum of 25 per cent of the local commercial rent and the rest, 75 per cent of the rent, the Czech Republic pays. Renting new premises of the European Agency will thus become the cost of the state budget for a long time. Again, we agree with this, of course, with the establishment of the Agency, but I would just like it to be said here that, in fact, 75 percent will actually be paid by the Czech Republic. [[9.50 hours]] What is another solution for the state? Either there will be a state building or the agency will go to a commercial building and the Czech State will not pay her commercial rent. [[Will it?]] According to the presentation report, we're basically in the other case, which means we're gonna go in the form of a lease. According to my information, the State has allegedly not found an appropriate building owned by a State which could be based on the location of the Agency and the use of the Agency. Why, we don't know, reason reports say nothing in this regard. So we have a second option, new premises will be commercially rented for the agency. We are, therefore, more or less already faced with a done matter. What is important now is that in this explanatory report - and I am a little stunned - there are no quantified economic impacts. Although it says that it is not possible to quantify the impact until the new building of the Agency's headquarters is completed, I understand that, of course, but surely some outline in the explanatory memorandum could have been heard by the Ministry. We learned from the media that the Prague City Council signed a contract with the Ministry of Finance in July and should prepare premises for the agency, still unfinished, in the centre of Nová Palmovka. The costs of completion and its provision will be in charge of the Prague development company, they can reach up to CZK 1 billion and the investor will be Prague 1. This year should be announced a tender for the designer and supplier of the first stage of completion which should, could start next year and should be completed in 2025. So if I sum it up again, the recipient of money from the state budget will be the capital city of Prague through its service development company. However, since this year is only due to announce a tender for the designer on completion, I do not know how this will go all the way to the given deadline. So it's probably somehow staged in time and space, and the spaces are probably going to be passed down gradually. As I repeat, I am not questioning this here, or we, as a club of the ANO movement, will, of course, approve this here, but it was my remarks on this press. And I would just point out that I would therefore imagine a better justification for the chosen solution and at least an estimate of the cost for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-003-100.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. And I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Not interested. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. In the meantime, I will read the resolution as the rapporteur has read it. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify Appendix 1 to the Host Agreement on Location, Support, Privileges and immunities between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Agency for the European Global Navigation Satellite System, signed in Prague on 27 January 2012.' [[GNSS]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered by 130 Members, for 115, against none. The proposal was accepted and we agreed to ratify the amendment. I'm done discussing this point. And we're going to move on to the next point, which is the point.
