ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-013-025.u1	25. Proposal by Radek Vondráček and others for the publication of the Lobby Act 1/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered as House Press 1/1 and I am asking that Mr Radek Vondráček present the proposal as the appellant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-013-025.u2	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want a longer version, including GRECO, OECD, WHO, UN, Council of Europe and others, or the shorter one, more entertaining, and will you be nicer to me in voting on the continuation of this press? [[Fun in the hall.]] Okay, so we're getting to print one and two. It is the very first press to come to this Chamber of Deputies. Since the elections were in October and we have March, so almost five months later. If I round it up a little bit, it's been six months. In fact, one-eighth of my term is gone when I'm at it. I'm so glad we finally got to point one. I do not need to present the press in detail because it is the result of long meetings within the working group, within the constitutionally-legal committee during the previous parliamentary term, and there are a number of commemorators. Lobbying itself is not my invention or our invention, it is a thing that is traditional that Roman citizens stood in front of the Senate in the days of ancient Rome and tried to convince the senators of their good intentions and intentions. It is said that Magna Charta Jan Bezzemek from 1215 is actually the result of lobbying and the first historical evidence. The modern history of lobbying is being placed in the United States of America, and so was the name of lobbying, because President Grant liked to smoke cigars, and Mrs Grantová wouldn't let him smoke cigars in the White House and had to smoke at the Willard Hotel, which is nearby. As soon as the influential citizens of Washington found out, they followed him to the lobby, and that's how the lobbyist was called. Of course, in America, they have been trying to affect this phenomenon for years and have taken a number of legal measures. I like Senator McCaina's quote the most: "What I do is lobbying, what my opponents do is corruption." Of course, we are one of the last European countries to have no regulation of lobbying in their legal order. Legislative efforts to lobby in the Czech Republic have repeatedly appeared, but they have not yet resulted in any comprehensive solution that should increase the transparency of lobby activity and legitimize lobbying as an activity that benefits the political system. As stated in the substantive intention of the Act on lobbying, approved by the Government's resolution of 21 February 2018, number 114 could also be used to meet the objectives, such as ethical codes, public policy diaries and the like, but despite several attempts in the past, insufficient political will was not found to implement them. Instead of self-regulation mechanisms, lobbying regulation must be implemented at the level of legal regulation. I have already mentioned this: the last attempt was made in the last parliamentary term, when the adoption of the law at third reading prevented the slight obstruction of opposition parties, and the proposal is based on a comprehensive amendment which was approved by the then constitutionally-legal committee headed by Marek Benda, who came here to listen carefully and closely to me, and on which there was a broader consensus. I think that if we called this law the Law on Legislative Lobbying, it would be just as precise a term as the Act on Lobbying, on lobbying, because what we've been doing is really just a legislative process. The basis of this law is to define what lobbying is, to define who is the object of lobbying or what is the object of lobbying, who is a lobbyist and who is lobbied. A register of lobbyists is being established, various responsibilities are introduced for lobbyists, but also some permissions to even motivate them to become officially admitted lobbyists. The effect on public authorities in order to influence their decision-making does not always take place transparently. You all see it, we've been sitting here for a long time. I mean, even the newcomers who've only been here a few months. There are no clear rules, which, of course, poses a risk of endangering the public interest in favour of hidden partial interests, and lobbying can also have negative conventions such as intolerable influence, unfair competition, political corruption, so-called capture of a regulator that adversely affects public interest, public policy, and therefore the economy. That is why lobbying is often associated with corruption in the eyes of the public. Another cause of negative perception can, for example, be a very fine line between lobbying and criminal acts, such as indirect bribery. Non-state non-profit organizations that have long sought to regulate lobbying in the Czech Republic consider it an important element in the fight against corruption. Remaining in the current state would also lead to international recommendations and proposals for activities in this field addressed to the Czech Republic. Here I have already mentioned a group of GRECO states, I have mentioned recommendations from OECD countries, organisations such as the Council of Europe and WHO. The legal regulation adopted by lobbying in recent years in individual countries in Europe also demonstrates the relevance and topicality of this issue. For those interested then I offer the book Lobbing or Corruption?. I don't want to be too long. I'm interested in a debate on this. I have pointed out here in the past that legislative regulation, legal regulation of lobbying in the Czech legal order, is one of the conditions for drawing funds from the National Recovery Plan. It is therefore in the real interest of the Czech Republic, it is in the interests of us recipients of legal standards, but above all, the government and the government coalition, in order to adopt legal regulation of lobbying in the Czech Republic as soon as possible and we could draw billions from the National Recovery Plan without risk. Of course, the proposal I am making is a proposal to the opposition, we are discussing it within the opposition window. I'm fully aware of that. On the other hand, this subject is universal and should not only be a subject of opposition. I have not yet noticed that a government proposal or a proposal from a coalition group has been tabled here. [[18.10 hours]] I would like to emphasise once again that, in the last parliamentary term, a comprehensive amendment was tabled within the framework of the constitutional and legal committee on which there was agreement, and I did not go beyond this framework in the preparation of this law in any way. I would be very sorry if the weight of this debate and the energy that has already been here fell through the sieve. And that is why I think that this press would really deserve to be discussed at first reading when the House concludes that it is worthy of moving forward to second reading. I look forward to the debate with the government Members, I look forward to the debate with the opposition Members. I can count to one hundred and eight, but if it succeeds and there are a few votes in favour, I thank you all in advance and I am here prepared for any questions in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-013-025.u3	I thank you, too, and I ask you to take your seat at the plaintiff's table. And now, as rapporteur, Mr Marek Benda, the rapporteur for first reading, will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-013-025.u4	Madam President, Minister, Madam Secretary, I am sorry, Madam Secretary, Minister, Dear rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has given a detailed statement of the draft law. I will not take advantage of my reporting role in expressing my personal position, or the ODS's position, so I will just say that the government, which was the previous government, since it was on December 6th, adopted an agreement with this bill at its meeting, which I am not surprised because it was originally its draft law and that the House can therefore deal with it. At the same time, I am reporting to the general debate, but before that, I would have one procedural proposal, because it seems completely wrong to discuss prints 25 and 26 with those prints 1 and 2 or points 25 and 26 with those prints 1 and 2 separately, so I recommend that we present the introductory words for both of them and then we run the joint debate. So this is my procedural proposal if we could merge the debate on points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-013-025.u5	Thank you. I am registering this procedural proposal, which we will immediately vote on. This is a proposal to merge the debate with the press 1 and 2 which are points 25 and 26. I checked you all out. So please re-enlist with your cards. I am opening the vote on the merger of the two press debates, and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 155 vote, 131 Members and Members were registered, for 129, against none. The proposal has been adopted, and we will therefore merge the debate on these two points.
