ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will now unsubscribe all of you and ask you to re-engage with your ID cards, or tell me who's asking for a replacement card. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to ask you to remain calm so that we can approach individual points. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 19th meeting on 14 April of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Stanislav Berkovec. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see any logged in. [[The noise lasts.]] Once again, I dare ask you to keep your voice down. Initiating vote on the proposal submitted to the verifier of our meeting. I said, who's in? Against? In voting number one, 123 Members and Members have been voted in favour of 115. [[No one.]] The motion was accepted. I therefore note that we have designated the verifiers of the 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Barbora Urbanová and Mr Stanislav Berkovec. I agree that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologize for their absence to the negotiations by the following Members: Babiš Andrej - working grounds, Balaš Vladimír within 16 hours for zlínský Vladimír, Bělor Roman from 15.30 to 19 hours for work reasons, Berki Jan - foreign travel, Bžoch Jaroslav - foreign travel, Decroix Eva - Růžička grounds, Dostálová Klára - foreign trip, Dubský Tomáš - working reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav - medical reasons, Purova Eva until 17.30 hours for work reasons, flek Josef - foreign trip, Juchelka Aleš - foreign travel, kolář Ondřej - medical reasons, Stržínek Robert - Renáta Pavel, Kuchař Jan - foreign trip, Lacina Jan - foreign trip, králíček Michalírová - foreign travel - žáček Pavel, Lochman Ondřej - foreign travel, Naiclerová Hana - working Pavel, Nováková Nina - medical reasons, Pokorná Jermanová Jaroslava - foreign travel - foreign travel, foreign travel, foreign travel, Weisne - Zuna Michal, ŠebelováMichal Karel - medical Michaela, Wenzl travel, medical reasons, medical Zajíčková, Weisne - medical reasons. From members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš for work reasons, Blažek Pavel for work reasons, Černochová Jana for work reasons, Gazdík Petr from 15 to 16 hours for work reasons and Lipavskýý Jan due to foreign travel. Mr Major will vote with card number 23. I want to ask you once again to keep your voice down, because we are now getting to the agenda of our meeting, and I think you need to learn a whole series of important information about the course of the meeting, so please have your attention. We will therefore now proceed to the appointment of the 19th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. We propose the following procedure this week. Today, that is, on Tuesday 26 April, open negotiations on the block by the laws of first reading, in the following order: paragraph 23, House press 205 - Government bill on excise duties, paragraph 22, House press 204 - Government bill on income tax, paragraph 21, House press 203 - Government proposal on international cooperation in tax administration, paragraph 12, House press 150 - Government proposal on the entry and import of certain cultural goods, paragraph 14, House press 163 - Government proposal on the law on surveying, paragraph 7, House press 174 - Government proposal on the law on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse, as amended, paragraph 8, House press 139 - Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the use of digital instruments, paragraph 9, House press 175 - Government bill on international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and possibly continue other points from the Act block, first reading. Tomorrow, i.e. on Wednesday, 27 April, open negotiations by paragraph 73, House press 173 - Government bill on measures in the field of taxation, third reading, and continue points from the block of Laws, second reading, in the following order: point 5, House press 176 - Government bill on excise duties, point 2, House press 58 - Government proposal on road transport, point 3, House print 76 - Government proposal on road transport law, point 4, House print 137 - Government proposal on construction law, with point 1, House press 55 - Government bill on limiting the impact of selected plastic products, second reading, we propose to discuss only the second week of procedure, that is to say on 10th to 13th May. Then eventually continue points from the block of the Law, first reading, where it ends on Tuesday. Then, at 13.30, a fixed block of electoral points, i.e. paragraphs 79 - Proposal for changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, paragraph 80 - Proposal for the election of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, paragraph 81 - Proposal for the election of members of the Supervisory Board of the State Investment Support Fund, paragraph 82 - Proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Technical Agency, paragraph 83 - Proposal for a candidate to be appointed as Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Office. Thursday 28 April: whereas point 110 - The government's replies to written interpelations are not fulfilled at 14:00 today, we will not deal with them. We would therefore start negotiations at 9 o'clock according to the draft programme. That's all on my side. Now, Madam Members, I ask you to comment on the motion for a programme, and once again I ask you to keep your voice down, so that we hear the petitioners logged on to the points. I have several applications here, so the first with priority rights and the motion for a meeting is President Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor. [[There's still noise in the room.]] And once again, please calm down so we can hear the speaker. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, as the first item in today's Chamber of Deputies meeting, I propose a point entitled Petr Fiala's Government does not address the problems of Czech citizens. [[14.10 hours]] The current government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is still fundamentally not addressing the draconian high prices of food, gas and electricity and other vital goods and services. In fact, Prime Minister Fiala said last week, and I quote that ceilinging the price is nonsense and that his government pumped CZK 74 billion in the first hundred days of ruling to help citizens. This is a demagogy and not really because it was mainly a mandatory, i.e. compulsory expenses, which do not address the difficult situation of our citizens. The above-mentioned amount of expenditure is given by legislation, because it is the expenditure associated with the discount on the taxpayer, which was approved by the last House, when Petr Fiala's government was not in the government, and the statutory valuation of pensions, including the planned June, is due to record inflation, which the Fialův government had screwed to the third highest within the EU, namely inflation of 12.7 percent, so the government will also include the statutory valuation of pensions on the basis of a law which the government has not adopted, which is already valid from earlier. So here I would like to ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala not to take advantage of something that is not true at all, which the government of Petr Fiala - not only did it not agree at all - even had no effect on it. So, on the contrary, you didn't lift a finger for the citizens of the Czech Republic, in fact, one can say in principle. So it's really demagogy, and I'm disappointed when the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic talks about money that - at the same time, it's not based on the government's decision that it should influence it in any way, but what the government has no conflict with is record inflation, which it does nothing against. So, in terms of increasing the expenditure of all residents of the Czech Republic during the reign of Petr Fiala, these are mainly overpriced energy, fuel, food and mortgage. Can I ask you, Madam President, to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u3	Yes, I'll ask colleagues who have something to say, and they need to say it here after a long time, since we haven't seen each other, to move their conversations into the foyer. It's true across the House. Calm down, please. Please, you may proceed. I firmly believe that my colleagues are already moving and will be calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. I could've handled it differently, but I don't want to raise my voice. So, of course, the main responsibility for the price increase and for the fact that this is not mainly about the price increase falls on the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, which is progressing in a dilettant way and inflation and the price increase simply does not solve. Overpriced energy, which spins the inflation spiral, solves in most countries of Europe by reducing taxes or by imposing prices, but which Petr Fiala's government rejects without offering any other major solution. Here we need to emphasize the key word, because what we're going to vote on here at this House meeting means that the government is going to lower fuel prices by a crown of fifty, so it's really not just that it's not essential, but it's completely inadequate. I would say, if you look at the reactions of citizens too, so that they mock it directly - they take it as a mockery from the government of Petr Fiala, that this is a solution to the price increase. When you compare it with other countries that reduce taxes heavily on these commodities or directly lower prices, so that neither a person nor a citizen recognizes it, people write. A crown of fifty! The SPD movement will, of course, support all the proposals leading to price cuts, but the fact that you are reducing the koruna by 50 fuel prices by a crown to fifty on average for four months, so it is really quite inadequate and I am surprised that you can report to such a proposal in some way loudly because it only confirms the incompetence. Prime Minister Fiala seems to be naively thinking that the problem of price increases will be solved on its own - and everything will eventually be paid by our decent and working citizens. Of course, this approach is rejected by the SPD. We are saying exactly the specific proposals they make in the surrounding countries, which means a clear reduction in taxes, such as VAT or excise taxes, or a price cap, so that citizens can really see that this is happening. There is also news, and we in the SPD also perceive this as negative as citizens, and that the lack of flats has become even worse at the moment. Do you think I could ask you, Madam President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u5	I would also like to ask my colleagues, because the President really does not have enough peace to make his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. So I'm saying again that what's really up to date now, even more of a problem than it was, is that now, in March and April, the lack of flats has deteriorated. Rents for Czech citizens are also increasing rapidly. Apparently, it is the reason for the influx of Ukrainian refugees. Moreover, economist Lukáš Kovanda expects rental housing prices to rise by 10 to 15 percent this year. The worst situation with the availability of apartments is traditionally in Prague, but problems are already manifesting in smaller cities. A single apartment, and it's data for March and April, that is, it's exactly in connection with the influx of refugees, so one apartment is often claimed by hundreds of applicants today. In one of the documented cases, there were even 830 interested parties! Real estate portal Reality.iDNES.cz announced that interest in rental housing increased by up to 60 per cent during March and then April. Nearly three times the demand against last year has now been recorded by the portal Bezrealitky.cz. And it is precisely what we have pointed out that the influx of refugees will make housing more expensive for our citizens, and we have already pointed it out in advance and asked the government how to deal with it and whether it is ready for that solution. We, of course, have been saying from the beginning that war refugees should be helped adequately, only for the necessary time, and they should come back to build their country after the conflict has ended. And we can help them do that. But now I'm talking about the problem here that really Czech citizens who don't have a place to live, can't get new apartments, can't reach mortgages, so now it's actually completely out of hand to the government, Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government. And even though we pointed it out two months ago, it comes down to what I was saying, what the SPD pointed out was that rental housing was so expensive, because, of course, the number of flats is given and you're not going to put them on one wave of a wand that our citizens are going into a huge crisis, a huge housing crisis. A lot of people, young people, write to us that they want to rent an apartment, that they are looking for an apartment, Czech working citizens, and they can't afford it. They're desperate. And I keep asking Prime Minister Petr Fiala -- and this time I'm not going to turn to you like this to not get mad at me again, but I'm still asking you this question, and it would be a good thing to answer those people, which is why I have the resources, the information -- what you're going to do with it, because the situation on the basis of your inactivity is only going to get worse, because it's going to take some time to build new apartments or something else. Building law, which you postpone to speed up the construction process, with new proposals Mr. Ivan Bartoš, Minister of Regional Development, is not coming up with new proposals, but the election has been over for six months - no readiness. In fact, a year ago in winter, you said you were ready to be staffed and programmed, so a year and a half ago, it's been back. There's no law here to accelerate housing, to accelerate buildings, or increase housing availability. So, the crisis is really coming. That means...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u7	Again, I'm sorry, but I don't feel like the noise situation is really improving, on the contrary. Once again, I will ask everyone who has a need to deal with something to move into the lobby and have a colleague present their proposal in a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. I was scared that you wanted to tell me for the first time that the housing situation was getting better, but I thought that, of course, naive. So thank you. So, unfortunately, Petr Fiala's government does not solve the problems of Czech citizens, and now more fuel, heat, electricity, food, and consumer goods are added to the increase in rents. So really, Prime Minister, it's a really serious question - what are you still waiting for? You're sending out some signals, but the solution is still missing, and people are really desperate. They won't have a place to live any longer. It's happening now. And instead, the Fialův government is supposed to give 1 billion crowns to rebuild and build apartments for Ukrainian refugees, including equipment, so our citizens can't even rent apartments anymore. That's what I just read here. But instead of doing something for our citizens who are completely desperate and who are forced to pay your government policy because most of the Czech Republic's citizens didn't vote for you in the elections, as you know, because the million votes fell below 5% for the parties, so the minority who voted for you, your coalition, is now forced to pay, or the majority that didn't vote for your government coalition, so now these excesses of yours are forced to pay, aren't they? So now you're giving a billion crowns to rebuild and build apartments for Ukrainian refugees, including equipment. [[14.20 hours]] We read in the media that the Minister for Regional Development and Chairman of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš wants to ask the European Commission to give a billion euros out of the money allocated to the Czech Republic to support the housing of Ukrainian refugees, which is CZK 25 billion. And I ask you repeatedly, when will you have, Prime Minister and yours in the quotes of the Ukrainian government, when will you have time and money for Czech citizens as well? As far as helping refugees is concerned, we have said this, the SPD's position is clear, so I would hate for anyone to distort it here, but now we are talking about Czech citizens, because it is obvious here that Czech citizens who are looking for housing or who find themselves in financial difficulties are in need of help. I'm going to help myself with one more number here because it was an article on Novinky, and it's been a few weeks since the Socialist Institute of the Academy of Sciences said that 30 percent of all households are actually at risk of price increases. Then there's another number: 40 percent increase in the number of new executions under your government. In addition, the President of the Food Chamber says that in the near future, 30 percent of the food will become more expensive. But there's no solution on your part. I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that you won't do it with a wand. Then you won't do that by waving your wand like a magician. Everything needs to be prepared, there's a process, and you're still waiting for something. While in Poland they have zero VAT on food - Čech go shopping in Poland - so your government really comes very expensive to Czech citizens. We have April, it will be May, so while Polák have cheaper food and the government acts - and Čech go shopping for food to Poland therefore - so you actually pulled money out of your pockets to Czech citizens. In February, March, April, now it will be May, and it will continue. That's completely insane. Moreover, here Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, as we have learned, as we have all been able to read, presented outlines of government pension reform. According to the government, people are supposed to work at retirement age. They say the state will collect more tax money. Jurečka therefore plans to get people of retirement age to work longer. The Minister himself admits, in his statement, that the fact that people are not working at retirement age is also due to their health problems. Unlike Petr Fiala's government, the SPD movement promotes dignified pensions and we reject forcing people to work at a retirement age. So if your pension reform is to demote people to retire after deserved decades of work, that's also awful. We haven't heard any other suggestion from you. That was what we could already read, but from that the outline of your proposed reform. As I said, in fact, in essence, over a million Czech households are at risk of becoming more expensive. We need to be clear here - and you, Prime Minister, are constantly trying to push either for the previous government of Andrej Babiš, with whom the SPD has nothing to do with it, we have never voted for the budget of the Babišův government, nor for the trust of the Babišův government, ever - or you are building it on a conflict in Ukraine. But stop making excuses, stop making excuses. This isn't really working, these excuses. Once again, I stress that the vast majority of the European Union countries are taking some large-scale measures. I suspect that we are the last of the four countries that take no major measures, the last of the three or four countries we are. At the same time, you have full responsibility for this. Here it must be said that full responsibility for the situation in which our citizens find themselves is borne by the current government of Petr Fiala and you as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic because you refuse to address the situation and do not want to help Czech citizens. Now, Prime Minister, please stop making excuses for Babiš or Ukraine all the time. Is it true that a Czech citizen who pays bills every month - now advances, gas prices, electricity, last year's billings, food prices are rising - until when will you make excuses? Don't be mad at me, but if you don't want to deal with it or you can't deal with it, you should just put it down fair, because people are already desperate. So you're still waiting for something. Well, admit it: I don't have a solution, and let's face it here. I mean, you're really putting these citizens in a terrible state of need, millions of people. Perhaps the richest citizens or those who have a really high standard of living - they will feel less, of course. But most citizens are not rich in the Czech Republic. Let me give you a specific example. The Czech Republic has the highest VAT on food among neighbouring countries. I don't know if you even know, Prime Minister. By the way, that's one of the reasons they're so expensive. In Poland, for a transitional period VAT is 0 percent, in Germany 7 %, in Slovakia and Austria 10 percent. But with us VAT on food is still holding Petr Fiala's government at 15 percent. The Czech Republic - but we all know this - currently has the third highest inflation in Europe of 12.7 percent. Prices are rising sharply, but your government, Prime Minister, is not doing anything essential for our citizens. And don't say that it's crucial -- when I heard your media performances, it went off in my monitoring, not that I'm watching it, but of course I'm keeping track -- so you're still praising that you want to cut the crown 50 down to four months. I don't understand how this... this is completely awful. A crown of fifty per litre seems like a success compared to the countries around us? You've got to be kidding me. I think you're out of your mind. You have your head in the clouds somewhere, in the elitist clouds, in the clouds of your luxurious life, just a respected academic. But the reality is, people really have huge financial problems. We've been warning you this in advance for months. You guys took it lightly. Remember how the SPD was the only one here, even in the last parliamentary term, to promote the strengthening of the Czech Republic's food and energy security. You guys turned us down. You rejected our proposals to strengthen food security, and now we have everything here. Now the citizens and your voters in the finals pay hard every day from their wallets when they go shopping. On the other hand, although you are not doing anything fundamental for Czech citizens - and don't keep repeating the crown of 50 for those fuels, because it is already a complete mockery compared to other countries, and even if we didn't compare it - so if this is your maximum after half a year, what you have most in the House, if your maximum is to propose a bill to lower the price of a liter of fuel by a crown of 50, that is also really an immediate departure. Because if this is your maximum, of course, the maximum is very desperate in that case, the performance of the government and its imagination. On the other hand, the government has spent CZK 54 billion on Ukrainian refugees at this time, and now you will be giving them apartments, while many of our citizens have neither the apartments nor the basic needs of life. I'm telling you again, don't let anyone tell me on the microphone that we're some kind of non-sensitive, it's not true. We have clearly stated our position on Ukrainian refugees, our positions are clear. But at the same time we say, what do you do for Czech citizens? These are the citizens who pay taxes here and who pay us all. So the SPD is pushing for a tax reduction or a price cap on basic food, energy and fuel, as the surrounding states do, which would immediately make life's basic needs cheaper for our citizens. Of course, there's room to cut, whether it's money for solar barons - but you voted against it last June, your government five-wheelers. At least some reduction in money to the solar barons has been voted out here by the SPD members, YES and two other Members from the party that is no longer here, so we cannot expect that from you because you are going to the hand of Brussels and their projects. But there's room here - political nonprofits, end abuse of doses inadaptable and so on and so on. Of course, unnecessary expenses can be humiliated. Well, let's face it. because the government of Petr Fiala is helping Ukrajinec more than citizens of the Czech Republic - which is simply a fact and people see it - big problems are beginning with the sustainability of our social, health and school system and increasing social tensions in our society. I don't know, you, Prime Minister, don't you see how the tension in our society is rising? How does your government divide society by its inactivity? How does he dig trenches between people instead of bonding? [[14.30 hours]] That means, we in the SPD, I say frankly, we understand the concerns and complaints of our citizens, and I consider these concerns justified. I have almost 300,000 people watching me on Facebook, and you can all look, I have a circus of 3,000 posts a day in comments, every day, and read what these people are writing, those tens of thousands of people. So it's not like I'm sucking one e-mail from my finger here, that maybe you get a few emails a day - I don't know how you do it, but I get thousands a day from citizens, so I have a fairly clear poll here at least from a spectrum of voters who are either considering the SPD or watching the SPD or directly supporting the SPD, which, of course, moves between half a million and a million citizens at least. So, of course, we consider the concerns of citizens and the complaints of our citizens justified. People, for example, complain, Prime Minister, that Ukrajinec are preferred in health facilities - and don't tell me that Okamura sucked it out of his finger, I quote you from the complaints. Similarly, parents of Czech children write to us about the situation in schools, such as when children applied to kindergarten and so on, so they were told: We have to wait for orders from above, how many Ukrajinec we should take - even from grammar schools my parents write to me - and then we will have information. So I don't know how I bought the quotes, so I'm moving on. About the schools it was a theme, it's about three weeks ago, I got these emails quite massively, so the situation has definitely moved on, but that's okay, that's just the social tension I'm talking about, the situation is definitely moving. Moreover, the Purple Government - they will cross out 14 billion crowns to health insurance companies. So we're still going to have a real fight here in the House, because the fact that you're going to cut 14 million health insurance companies is still in this situation, because that's your proposal before the conflict in Ukraine, and now you're going to be in this situation where we've got massively increased state insured people, that means insurance people who are paying the insurance state, that's basically a lot of those refugees, so you want to cut the health insurance companies CZK 14 billion, which will make the availability of health care worse for our citizens. After all, you are - this is once again a completely insane plan - and the SPD will, of course, surround this law in the House, as we reject the deterioration of health care for our citizens. I don't know where you go to the doctor, Prime Minister, and your ministers, but ordinary citizens are already telling us that the areas of child medicine, the treatment of rare diseases, and so on, are becoming overwhelmed, and of course, the tension is rising. And again, it needs to be dealt with - it's already a minute past 12 o'clock to deal with this, because those capacities aren't inflatable. The number of doctors is given, the capacity is also given, but the number of insured persons, whether state or other, has been added. That means, and we can't hear the answer from you again. We can't hear a word you're saying, Prime Minister, how do you want to deal with this situation? But what we're hearing is that we have a circus of 2,000 pediatricians and they themselves say, and that's the information from a month ago, that based on the then state of the number of Ukrainian refugees, everyone would have to take 50 extra children into the database, which is not physically possible, they say that logically it is not manageable, nor technically it is not manageable. So once again, the Fialův Government is silent on this subject, and it is in danger that the whole situation in Czech society will not only turn completely towards the government, but above all, there will be huge social problems, which of course do nothing good. And we're warning it loudly. The problem is that we are an opposition party with 20 MPs and, of course, the government coalition, the five-calice, has a majority, and that is why it is still necessary to stress that this is your full responsibility. That's not Babiš's responsibility, neither Ukraine's, nor Russia's, that's your responsibility. You are the Government of the Czech Republic and you are the only ones who have a responsibility to Czech citizens to solve these problems. So I'd like the Prime Minister and the government to stop making excuses, it's your responsibility - don't point to those who haven't been in government for six months or almost six months, and don't keep showing up abroad. The Czech citizen does not really eat, sleep, drink, or warm himself. But let us go to other data: 70 percent of the population - this is now the current STEM survey - 70 percent of the population of the Czech Republic considers that the arrival of refugees from Ukraine will lead to a weakening of the social security of Czech citizens. And for the SPD, we share their concerns. The war in Ukraine has been going on for two months now, and the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS has so far received over 340 000 refugees, with government politicians pushing for unlimited reception. We have heard this, for example, from Mr Benda of the ODS, I have noticed this in the media, receiving unlimited, and others, I have heard it more than once. So unlimited reception and assume that Ukrajinec will remain here permanently even after the end of the conflict. Those are the words of Prime Minister Petr Fiala directly, which I noted directly. But that is not possible, because we simply cannot manage financially, economically and capacityfully. Therefore, the SPD says that support for refugees from Ukraine should, in the opinion of the SPD, be proportionate, only for the necessary time, and refugees should come back as soon as possible and work to restore their country. And, of course, we can help them with that, like some common economic projects with the participation of our companies, our experts and so on. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL last week said that he was ready to pay the Ukrajinec a total of 317 894 benefits, which means over 300,000 doses, each for CZK 5,000. But these are just the benefits -- of course, another huge cost -- a total of 54 billion it already cost. At the same time, representatives of the government coalition said that only 24,000 Ukrajinec had begun to work. That's very little. The cost of accommodation, health care and the integration of Ukrajinec into schools is estimated by the government at this point at CZK 54 billion. But why am I talking about this again and again? Last week STEM said that - I quote - 70 percent of the population of the Czech Republic considers that the arrival of refugees will lead to a weakening of the social security of Czech citizens. Again, I say that the SPD also shares these concerns, and we repeatedly draw the government's attention to this. But Prime Minister Petr Fiala doesn't hear it, so he'd rather leave - he was sitting behind me a while ago, he'd rather leave. I don't know why he doesn't want to listen to it, this pain, these real problems that millions of Czech citizens have, to say the least, why does he leave the O.R. so he doesn't listen to these things? So the SPD movement is convinced that the government must help our citizens, and if it doesn't, it should just resign, because it's really coming, all citizens, pretty expensive, this inaction. Moreover, a significant proportion of refugees come from areas where there are no fighting, so the demand for a return after the end of the conflict is completely legitimate. Moreover, the voices are rising that the government should proceed much more directly - we all know that the embassy is returning to Kiev, that foreign diplomats are returning to Kiev, so of course it would be good to reflect this situation in some way gradually. I will be honest in this, as is my custom: citizens of the Czech Republic are not responsible for the economic upheaval and corruption of Ukraine, which occurred before the war, so it is legitimate to return after the conflict and build their country - it is their countries with their problems. We consider the procedure of the Fialův Government to be disproportionate in this matter and we do not agree with it. The government of Petr Fiala, and I repeat it again, has full responsibility for all the problems of our citizens caused by this government approach. [[14.40 hours]] With regard to corruption in Ukraine, these examples are infinite, so I will say only one, I would say the overall view of the situation in Ukraine with regard to corruption, that the European Court of Auditors, which is the European Union's supervisory authority, in September 2021, that is a few months ago, said that - I quote - the great corruption and the powers of the state are still very widespread in Ukraine despite the EU's measures and that, as a result of corruption, funds are being lost every year in tens of billions of euros. So the European Union itself sees what a troubled country it is. [[Noise in the hall.]] And why am I talking about this? Because at the end of his performance... [[He's turning to the chair.]] Can I have another one, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u9	I'll also ask my colleague for some peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u10	And why am I talking about this? Because, in conclusion, I also wanted to mention one novelty, which is really - I must say, our voters have absolutely freaked out and quite rightly - because the European Commission is about to establish the Solidarity Fund, from which it intends to finance the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine. And before I explain it, I must begin by saying that we in the SPD are refusing Czech citizens to finance the reconstruction of corrupt Ukraine, which is run and stolen by oligarchs, according to the European Union's proposal. And that it is a corrupt country, again says the European Court of Auditors itself, which is an EU supervisory authority, in its September 2021 report. It's just a bottomless well. According to Bloomberg, the European Commission has already made it clear to the Member States, which means the Czech Republic - and I would like to know the position of Prime Minister Petr Fiala, but he has already left, but there are other ministers - so I would really like to know, because you cover all this information, it is not in the debate that the European Commission has already made it clear to the Member States that most of the long-term costs of the reconstruction of Ukraine will be borne by the Member States of the European Union. I would be really interested in the Government's position on this, so that it can admit it openly, how it wants to continue to squeeze Czech citizens instead of helping them. And I already know the answer to my question here. The answer will be the silence of Petr Fiala's government. No one's going to explain or refuse here. The European Commission is now working on a mechanism to bring this closer to the audience, which should cover Ukraine's long-term needs. It is said that the instrument should be like a fund to support the economy affected by pandemics, for which the European 27 borrowed hundreds of billions of euros in total from commercial banks, thereby further indebting the Member States, including the Czech Republic. Well, that's the shameful loan that Andrej Babiš nodded to - we did not agree to - the debt of the Czech Republic to 2057, while the Czech Republic would be lent to banks on good terms on its own. But the problem with this loan was that it was needed, the European Commission wanted to support Italy, Spain and Greece, which no one wants to lend independently, because they are economically bankrupt and would have to leave the euro area, so we are here because of the previous government of Andrej Babiš, the Czech Republic has committed itself from taxpayers' money to be indebted by 2057 and now we are paying off as weep, while more than 40 percent of this fund is going to restore the economy to Italy and Spain. It is incredible that we here support from our money a country with higher salaries, higher pensions than in the Czech Republic. That's crazy, crazy, crazy completely. And now this is what you see, and now there's supposed to be another fund, there's supposed to be some new Ukrainian fund that should be used to finance investments and reforms approved by the government in Kiev. Well, at the same time, there's a message that it's a country that's totally crawled through corruption. And I'm not even going into history anymore, because with Ukraine it goes from Janukovyč, Porošenko and so on, here it goes billions of crowns, billions of dollars that the oligarchs have credited to their accounts, buying real estate in London and everywhere, and actually tunneling Ukraine. And that's where we're supposed to send the money? Well, why am I talking about this? Because it seems to be one of the priorities for negotiations under the Czech Presidency of the European Union in the second half of this year, so I would like to know how the Government of Petr Fiala is building on this issue, and how will the Government of the Czech Republic take its position on this request from the European Commission? Well, I suspect that Petr Fiala's government, that means the ODS government, the Pirates, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, will want to agree. However, it is necessary to speak loudly about this, to speak aloud about what you want to agree to at the expense of the Czech citizens, because I have not noticed any negative opinion from you. That's why I'm asking, and we still don't have an answer from you, from the government. You are silent, yes, and we all know that the reforms in Ukraine - of course I am talking about the time before the conflict - have not led to the development of Ukraine and the improvement of the situation of its people, but have benefited the oligarchs, foreign corporations and general corruption. And the situation won't be different, let's face it. It won't be any different, these people are still the same, still the same people are leading it or similar to them. By the way... Well, I'll keep going. The SPD movement clearly rejects these proposals and considerations by the European Commission. It has already been associated with prewar Ukraine, as I said, chronic ubiquitous corruption and a very weak level of rule of law that could prevent theft. We therefore see no reason why the European Union should take further loans, guarantee the Czech Republic and finance billions of euros for the reconstruction of the country that the oligarchs manage and rob. Moreover, Ukraine is a country with a huge democratic deficit, not a democratic country, of course. I was invited by the Rusín in Ukraine four years ago, I had three meetings there, they were full of halls, and there they can't even report to any other than Ukrainian nationality. The Rusín can't officially apply to their nationality - those are those who were our fellow citizens in the time of the first republic and can't apply to Russian nationality, they can't have Russian schools, they can't teach Russian in schools. It is simply not a democratic regime, there is no recognition of fundamental human rights at all, while they live there, it is also their country, the Zakarpatian Ukraine, they are not immigrants or migrants to Ukraine. So it is not even a democratic country, it does not meet either - and I mention one of many things, not just corruption - the basic democratic parameters that the democratic countries assume. We need to invest primarily in our Republic and in the postwar reconstruction of Ukraine, especially the citizens of Ukraine, but, of course, those who caused it should be involved. That's the SPD's opinion. Thank you for your attention, and again I ask that the first item of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies should, for these reasons, be included in an extraordinary item entitled The government doesn't solve the problems of Czech citizens because people really can't take it anymore, millions of people don't have money anymore, they're in a severe crisis, and there are still no solutions from the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u11	Minister Bartoš is now registered with priority rights and then there are several registered without priority rights, which are first Mr Mašek and about thirteen others. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I will use my priority rights only as a response. I'm not going to deal with the specific attacks that have been made on individual members of the government, I'm just going to try to speed up the facts. The sum that was operated on here that the Czech government had spent, of course, is not true. The number 54 billion is part of the overall possible cost of resolution as submitted by this government at the request of the Chamber of Deputies in the Strategy Plan for managing the crisis, where individual departments are taken into account, whether it be the issue of education, local development, MPSV and others. They have such a strategy for other states, and these costs, how much Putinův's war in Ukraine will cost those countries that want to help, each country has, is the total of possible costs. That's the first thing. Second thing. If you look at the structure of the state budget, it's totally odd to say it's at the expense of something right now. On the contrary, we are going to and have already taken a number of measures that change the structure of the state budget on the expenditure side towards the citizens of the Czech Republic, but at this time no budget chapter has been reduced, on the contrary, there has been an increase. I'm going to talk about the Ministry of Regional Development's department, because I'm responsible for it. The plan itself for this year alone for the construction of available housing in municipalities and cities of the Czech Republic goes in the national programmes that are running and in IROP 3.7 billion. The programme, which we presented as the Ministry of Regional Development, is intended for municipalities and regions, and at the moment it is intended for us to solve the problem of the accommodation of people who are fleeing the war, goes to reconstruction of buildings in the property of municipalities and regions or companies controlled by them. Ergo hammer this money will remain in the municipalities and regions, and even this program speaks exactly about the moment when there will be no demand, these renovated apartments can be used as accessible housing for Czech citizens. [[14.50 hours]] I heard something about "where's the law?" The substantive amendment to the construction law has been in inter-departmental commentary proceedings for a week. I've reported it in the media, I've reported it on social media. The government communicates these things. The European Union's ad solidarity approach to countries affected by a larger influx of people - refugees before the war in Ukraine. That's extra money. We, as the Czech Republic, have initiated negotiations - I am handing over the relay personally at the moment, because the Presidency of the Czech Republic is approaching - with eight countries, Croatia has now joined, where the so-called joint appeal is to the European Commission, and the European Commission has recognised that they are states, it is V4, it is Bulgaria, it is Romania, it is the Baltic states, the Czech Republic, I have mentioned Croatia, therefore also Austria, which is in a more difficult situation than other countries, because we are facing a larger number of refugees and we are trying to help them. The finance ministers signed this, and we are also negotiating towards the European Commission that states that are heavily affected have money to deal with the situation. So just to sum up, the calculations that have been made here are possible costs of the overall solution, and the war in Europe is not for European states without costs. You can't think that, you can't tell anyone. No expenditure was limited in the planned expenditure of the State. The money we are counting on at the moment is extra money and we are discussing in the European Union that, in the context of the solidarity solution to the war in Ukraine, these will then be provided to those countries, just as it is necessary with the help that will then be, and I believe that it will be refunded to those countries that have helped more at the moment. The construction law is in the interdepartment, it's being discussed by individual ministries. That's standard procedure, we kept the promise that it would be ready within three months, i.e. in sync with the Ministry of the Environment. You can see him in eKLEP. The money - the EUR 1 billion we are talking about - is money that is at the moment either allocated in the National Recovery Plan, which we inherited and which we are trying to repair, but it is also money that is being talked about beyond. And the last thing, the 900 million goes into the property of cities and municipalities in the Czech Republic. And the question of housing, which I think is crucial. The state isn't really the one it's building. Of course, these are regions and municipalities, which in their budgets have money for construction, as well as housing, for individual projects. So part of that European money or some kind of state budget subsidy or interest-free loans or programs coming from the National Development Bank or SFPI are extra. The total volume, and it is not for my previous speaker, but for the citizens - the real housing situation is also being addressed in terms of construction. We want to accelerate it. The Act on Available Housing, which is the debt of the two previous governments - at least as far as I can remember, so it fell off the table just before the end of the 2017 elections, Mrs Marksová, subsequently the government did not deliver it last - so the Act on Available Housing, which will allow municipalities to again give tools to provide apartments or rental housing or construction to their citizens, we have also included it in the Government's legislative plan and we are working on it. So it is a vital priority for us, for the government of Petr Fiala, for the Ministry of Regional Development, and I believe that citizens see that, on the contrary, in that short time, we are taking these steps at the maximum speed possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, too. The President of the Excellent has applied with priority right, so Mr Mašek will wait. And before he gets here, I'm gonna do one more apology. It is Mr Heller, who apologizes between 4:00 and 19:00 for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear government, dear colleagues, good afternoon, I come up with what goes on this point, after what we have done to Okamurův's window, namely a proposal to change the agenda of the meeting. I propose that, following discussions with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, on Thursday, because Tuesday and Wednesday are part of the proposal, as the President has read, the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies began with the discussion of paragraph 19, the House press 201, the amendment to Act No. 107/1999 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Furthermore, as the second item of the Thursday's discussion of paragraph 20, the House's press 202, the amendment to Act No. 222/2016 Sb. and others, e Collection. As the third item of Thursday's meeting item 13, the House's press 160, the Government's bill on the promotion of low-emission vehicles through the award of public contracts and public passenger transport services, first reading. It's all first reading. Furthermore, as the fourth point of Thursday's meeting, include item 18 - House press 199, draft amendment of Act No. 67/2013 Coll., which regulates certain issues related to the provision of performance related to the use of apartments and non-residential premises in the house with apartments, as amended. Subsequently, as the fifth point, open the chapter of the contract in the following order: first discuss item 71, first reading contracts, House printing 194, consent to ratification of Appendix 1 for the Agency for the European Global Navigation Satellite System. Further continue in the chapter of the contract second reading, in order of paragraph 66, House press 91, Eutelsat, and item 67, House press 92, treaty with ratification of the World Postal Union Act. Further, by negotiating from the first reading chapter of the Treaty, these two proposals, item 70, House press 157, the Treaty with the Federal Republic of Brazil, and item 72, first reading, House press 200, the Treaty with Australia. Should these points be discussed from the chapter of the contract, continue the agenda of meetings in the block of others or first reading where the meeting ends on Wednesday at 13.30. I also suggest that on Friday, the second block, or the first reading, should be continued, but that is already given by the agenda itself as approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u15	I also thank you for the proposals that have been made, and so we are now getting to the applicants. First Mr. - I'm sorry, I didn't notice. [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] So Mr Mašek prefers Mrs Schillerová, and then I see another envoy, President Jakob. So, please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words to you that, according to Eurostat's information, the Czech Republic is the third-largest country in the whole of the European Union. The consumer price index in March 2022 reached dizzying 12.7 percent and, as a result of this extremely high inflation of the Czech household, record poor. The decline in real wages in 2022 is predicted to be up to 7 percent, and in the second quarter of this year even the decline in real wages affects the height of 10 percent. According to the Czech Statistical Office, Czech consumers are worried about price growth, deterioration of the overall economic situation and their own financial situation. [[15.00 hours]] The value of the economic sentiment index is the lowest for Czech consumers in almost ten years, at 81.3 %, and is still falling dynamically. The problem is high prices, but the respondents evaluate almost all the observed aspects negatively. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office, a significant proportion of the households surveyed believe that their current financial situation is worse than in the previous year. Unfortunately, in this respect, I have to say that Petr Fiala's government is doing very little. The help she presented clearly doesn't work. I am, of course, glad that, after our pressure, the government has finally presented concrete aid to entrepreneurs, and since I do not want to be critical at all costs, I certainly thank you that at least this step has been fulfilled. However, I cannot shake the impression that it is both late and the type of help that our movement has long offered is being used. In the end, you had to go to the area aid in the form of a reduction in excise duties, but this aid is insufficient and is coming too late. So what happened? What we have been recommending all along, and senselessly for a long time, businessmen and companies have been in doubt. Today's record price growth threatens the entire Czech population. I have already mentioned that inflation in the Czech Republic is fundamentally higher than average inflation in the European Union countries. The average of the EU countries is 7,8% and the euro area is 7.4 percent. The Czech Republic, according to Eurostat, is an index of 11.9 per cent for March 2022. Probably still not enough for the government. Jiří Rusnok, Governor of the Czech National Bank, announced that the ceiling for inflation could be up to a few percentage points higher, at a limit of 14 percent. The phenomenon of price level growth can be monitored not only in the Czech Republic but also in the surrounding countries. It's basically a global phenomenon. Its cause is the disruption of the supplier-customer relations due to the health crisis, the monetary expansion of most countries of the world and the situation is of course, and it is necessary to honestly admit this, accelerated also by the conflict in Ukraine. When inflation declines in the Czech Republic, we will find that inflation is primarily accelerated as a result of growth in housing prices, where the Czech Statistical Institute also places energy prices and fuel prices. In the housing section, electricity prices increased by 24,7 %, in February by 22.6 %, natural gas by 37.7 %, in February it was 28,3 %, products and services for routine maintenance and repair of the apartment by 16,4 %, in February by 14,5 %, heat and hot water by 13.9 %, in February it was 12.4. And fuel prices? In particular, transport accelerated fuel and oil prices to 50,6 %, 31 percent in February. A leap in energy prices has already been addressed by our government. We responded to the sharp increase in energy prices on the world markets with a general pardon - my general apologies at the time as Minister of Finance - of value added taxes for the supply of electricity or gas for November and December last year. The proposal to reduce VAT was reflected in November according to the Czech Statistical Office by reducing the price of electricity by more than 16 percent, the gas by more than 11 percent and the inflation had an impact on one percentage point. Our government also approved a proposal for an amendment to the VAT Act, which would exempt the supply of electricity and gas by a total amount of VAT of 21 per cent throughout the current year. This step would reduce the impact of the increase in energy prices for all customers and therefore all Czech households and businesses without exception. Unfortunately, our proposal was taken off the table without discussion by the new government, and since then the government has not been able or willing to respond to this inflation situation. Unfortunately, not just housing costs are experiencing a sharp increase. The rental prices from the apartment increased by 4.4 %, aqueous by 5.3 %, net by 6.4 %, solid fuels by 19.9 percent. Another in the order of influence was the prices in the transport section - an increase of 21.6 percent, the abolition of discounts on fare certainly to many Czech households - or the reduction, whether I speak accurately - is creating a major problem nowadays. In the food and soft drinks section, flour prices were 30,3% year on year, semi-fat preserved milk by 20,1%, butter by 31,9 % and potatoes by 21,4%. Clothing prices increased by 19.9 percent and shoes by 15.4 percent. And I could go on like this. Our movement has provided a clear recipe for helping citizens by temporarily reducing VAT on fuel and temporarily reducing VAT on energy. Not forever. Temporary. In view of the above dynamic increase in fuel prices resulting from - and this is the direct consequence - the increase in consumer fuel prices, our movement proposed to amend the Value Added Tax Act so that the value added tax imposed on fuel - diesel and petrol - was changed so that, instead of the basic tax rate, the tax exemption was applied with a right to deduct, thereby temporarily reducing this situation, which is most affecting low-income households, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and reducing population mobility. At the same time, increasing fuel sales prices may lead to an increase in inflation as a result of a dynamic rise in prices for logistics services, because, of course, energy and fuel are entering the prices of all goods and services. The second way in which the government can really help Czech citizens is the exemption from VAT for energy. In view of the above dynamic increase in the global energy price resulting from the increase in energy prices, our movement proposes to amend the Value Added Tax Act in such a way that instead of the basic tax rate, the tax exemption is applied with the right to deduct tax, which, in turn, reduces the situation in the same way as for fuel and falls mostly to low-income, but today the middle class of Czech households and small entrepreneurs. At the same time, the high inflation environment in the Czech Republic threatens social reconciliation. It increases electrical energy, heat, fuel, food, clothing, footwear. Czech households are really poor and I wonder where the will of members of the government coalition has gone to help? Why are these Members who, as former governments, have asked us to extend aid at a time of pandemic with the impact of hundreds of billions of crowns on public budgets, unable to support Czech citizens in times of falling inflation? Why are we not taking measures that are being implemented by the vast majority of European Union countries, such as the reduction in VAT, the change in tax rules for fuels, electricity and gas, or the introduction of price ceilings for rocket fuel prices? The Czech way chosen by this government is to allow the effects of the overall price increase on Czech citizens. And yet it is the state that benefits from rising prices. For example, almost half of the fuel price is heading to the state budget. After all, some of its advisors call on the government to take this general step. [[15.10 hours]] As a result, allow me to apply for a fixed inclusion of the following points, namely paragraph 65, the Member's amendment on value added tax, House's press number 184, and item 61, the Member's amendment on value added tax, House's press 158, the inclusion, either on Thursday morning at 9 o'clock as the first item of the sitting day, or, if not, on Friday as the first item of the sitting day from 9 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u17	I also thank you for the proposal. Now a few more priority rights, so Mr Mašek will be held. First, the Chairman of the TOP 09, Mr Jakob, followed by Vice-President Havlíček and Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry, I have to respond to opposition leaders here. But before that, I would like to thank Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, who, in fact, here has actually told what the government has done and what it is up to, also answered my previous speakers. I must respond to President Okamura's speech. Mr Okamura, through Madam President, it has obviously become harder for you and I have become very bitter about it. It's very sad that you're targeting the easiest voter acquisition on a first-plan populist basis. It's really very dangerous. You can stir up something here in society that can barely be stopped. That government doesn't divide society, it connects it, which is why it's taking all the measures that have been said here. You're splitting the company up! Unfortunately, the leaders of the ANO movement, President Babiš and many Members, are also joining this rhetoric. I must commend the President of Club Schillerová, who argues, tries to argue factually, but I also have to respond to her, through Madam President. Let me explain to you what you said here, the data from Eurostat that inflation is above the European Union average. Yes, but Eurostat also noted how the debt pace was going. From the 27 countries of the European Union, the pace, the speed between 2020 and 2021, was the highest in our country when you were the Minister of Finance. The pace was at 4.2% of GDP, and that's why inflation is above average today. You all say or do you like to say in the last few days: our people, for our people. And I firmly believe that, despite the more than ten admitted to the debate, we will be able to discuss the proposals put forward by the government here to really help. We have to help, we want to help, but responsibly and to those who really need help, not across the board, as you were used to, and unfortunately it has consequences in our debt that will be repaid by future generations. Therefore, I join the proposals from Gremium, my colleague Excellent and please let us vote on the programme so that we can then pass laws that will really help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, too. Now I'm going to load an apology. He apologizes today from 15 a.m. to the end of the day and from the whole day on Wednesday, i.e. 27. 4. for health reasons, Mrs Lesenská. Now, therefore, the priority rights of Vice-President Havlíček, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová and President Schillerová. [[Shows she's got priority.]] So you preferred each other, so President Schillerová first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u20	I thank my colleagues and you, Madam President. I just want to respond quickly to Chairman Jakob. Well, Mr President, you always choose, and not just you, but you always choose - so that you don't tell me that every time I have an unprepared speech, it gets worse, so believe me, I wear those numbers in my head and study them every day - you always pick the number that suits you, and not just you. These are various abbreviations that we read in different places. Eurostat issued more of these graphs, and let us not forget that it published a graph that the Czech Republic still remained the sixth least indebted country in the European Union. Yes, the pace was there, it was my decision, and I stand by it. I decided when the Czech National Bank started - you say you often send signals or the government says to send signals, so I will borrow it, even if I don't like it - send signals or smoke signals directly that it will increase interest. So that's when I decided to pre-finance myself. And you can dehonest me all you want for this. Today, your Treasury Secretary would have a headache if he'd paid off that much interest. And as for debt: notaben, I remind you again, many of you - you didn't, you weren't here half the time, as far as I know, maybe more than half of it, so it doesn't fall on you, through Madam President, I'm sorry - a whole lot of your colleagues from the opposition bench at the time called for it to be little, so help even more. I had it counted. It would be 200 billion more if we applied all your amendments and parliamentary proposals. And when I've had the debt rate calculated in two years, we're in some 13th place, the 12th, the 13th, below the EU average, and I stand by those steps. Of course, the eurozone, which is in debt, is now slowly approaching 100 percent of GDP, which is borrowing at zero, because the European Central Bank has not yet agreed to these rapid interest increases. I just wanted to remind you so much. And I'm sure we'll get to the tax laws. As I announced today, I will repeat it again, the ANO movement is ready to support both tax laws, both the reduction of the excise tax law and the Income Tax Act. [[The excise tax reduction bill?]] And he's even ready not to vote in cooperation with the second SPD club in the '90s, which doesn't mean we don't ask our own questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u21	Therefore, Vice-President Havlíček, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová and Vice-President Skopeček are now on the list. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam, honourable Members and honourable Members of the Government, I understand that the coalition may not like this when we show figures where inflation is not coming out as the coalition might have imagined when we show that it is twice as high as it was at the end of the year when we argue that we have the sixth lowest debt. But let's not talk about the numbers. I believe that those who are watching us may already have the numbers above their head and that the ordinary citizen is not only looking at exactly what inflation is, but is looking at how much money he has in his wallet, in his account, and how much energy he has increased, how much fuel or food he may have increased, and whether or not he is able to pay for it. Likewise, we do not have to explain to companies what inflation is, those companies come to their own conclusions and can calculate how much higher their energy prices are. Let's work together on how we can help households and companies to make it even more bearable. And so is my point, which I will propose for this House meeting at the end. This is forgiveness or deferment of payments for renewable resources. I don't know why the government's resisting it. It's an elegant instrument. It is an instrument that is also used in other countries of the European Union, such as Germany. If the government is arguing here that it does not want to launch purely surface tools because it is unfair in quotation marks - although I do not agree with this and I say that 15 percent of the richer should not take 85 percent hostage - so forgiveness or deferment of payments for renewable resources is not a purely flat-rate instrument that could not divide this. It is an elegant tool to set up household consumption and through it I can pay beautifully exactly what the government will say. It even makes it possible to pay the negative - to put it simply, when a negative number comes in, it is actually a form of contribution, which is nothing more than what the Pirate Party suggested, in my opinion, not entirely wrong. [[15.20 hours]] Why are we defending ourselves from this? It is fast, the state does not have to give complicated form of support or social support, everyone will see it on their bill, the state can dose it as it pleases, and in my opinion it is also symbolic, because we are at a time of extraordinary energy crisis and the state should be able to admit the error from 2006 to 2010, the mistake on which the solar tunnel was founded and thanks to which today we pay CZK 54 billion per year for renewable resources. Let me be objective, it's CZK 29 billion for solarium. This is a mistake, this is a failure that occurred between 2006 and 2010, and it would be fair for us to become, regardless of who was to blame for it larger or smaller, to make it fair and say that in the following year, maybe two years, this payment will either be cancelled, and we can look for resources, for example from ČEZ or the Modernization Fund, or shift over time, that means that solar investors will not lose anything in the sense of time, except it will shift to 2031 or 2032. All of this can be discussed, and I therefore propose that we include paragraph 59, the parliamentary amendment on supported energy sources, the Parliamentary Press 153, as the second point after the item by President Schillerová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u23	Madam President Schillerová suggested two points, so that would have to be the third point. And it's either Thursday or Friday, so it was designed by a lady... so, yes, right after that, okay. It is therefore now the priority right of Vice-President Skopeček, because he has been exchanged in gentlemen's terms, if you can say so, with the Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u24	I thank the Vice-President and my colleague for your kindness. I just want to briefly respond to President Schillerová's speech, which now has such an ambition to blame everything on covid - everything bad that has been going on with public finances in recent years, to blame. Even if we forgot about Covid and forgot about the years he was a covid, we had a relatively economically successful period of 2014 to 2019, when the Czech economy grew above average at more than 3%, which is actually a decent number of economic growth in European conditions. And at this time before the covid, however, at a time of economic growth, this government owed us hundreds of billions of crowns. So the last year of covid, that, Madam President, is such a icing on the cake of your action, acidic or bitter effect, because if you behaved much more responsibly in those years 2014 to 2019, maybe today we had more room for helping those affected. And one last thing. If we were to take all the measures that you have put forward, or if your President introduced them in the twelve measures against the cost, that means hundreds of billions of crowns that will come from the fisco to the economy. Not only will this mean another hundreds of billions of increases in debt, but it will contribute to higher and higher inflation, because what your extra hundreds of billions have caused is also the current inflation that we unfortunately have to face.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u25	So now, again, we come to the right of priority. Madam President Schillerová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u26	Mr Vice-President, through Madam President, we have already been rehearsed that we are regularly going to all the TV debates together, because the Minister of Finance is not dating me. It's okay. I'm glad. So I have to do it again. Well, before the covid came, our government's management had balanced surplus budgets. I'll remind you again before the covid came. We're not blaming anything. Just the situation, that was our black swan, like I said. And your black swan, as you say, is a war in Ukraine. You can't just rip out a few things when you have the situation we've been in and say, "You've given so much to help because, of course, that's where the health sector has to do with it, that's what investment has to do with maintaining social reconciliation, which I'm wondering if your government will succeed - I doubt it. And yet we've kept everything six of the least indebted funds. I have this interesting table where I keep going through those numbers. The increase in debt, I have it as a percentage of GDP, was about 15,6 percent for ODS governments, and by the time the government was YES, it was about 2.1 percent. And we were dealing with a huge crisis. We admit this one won't be much smaller. Let's just get this straight and get out of practice, 'cause I'm sure we're gonna have some debate again soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u27	It now comes to the priority right of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová and I see another application with priority rights subsequently. So please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Fellow Members of the Government, I would also like to ask you to include one very important item on the agenda of this meeting, one that you, as Members of the Council, have agreed to extend the emergency by 58 days, so you also went to meet the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rakušan, to present the strategy for managing the refugee crisis by the end of March in order to present it by 14 April. It was submitted by 14 April to the Security Committee, which is an advisory body, and since this resolution was approved by the Chamber of Deputies and, as has also been announced by the Security Committee, this strategy will be the subject of negotiations for this meeting. We assumed that this item would be included in the programme itself from the initiative of the Minister of the Interior, which was not the case at the moment. That is why we consider it necessary for this material to be discussed here, even though we perceive it today, and so we have also announced to the Security Committee that this is the strategy that we have requested now, which we assumed we would get, because we see in this strategy the words "we will check, process, map, create" something. But in this document - which cannot be called a strategy, because we really will not know what will happen in a month, what will be in three months, what will be in six months, there are no deadlines, there is no clear explanation of who will be responsible for these things, even if it intersects with both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health. I have to say, some chapters are well worked out. I'm sure I'd like to introduce the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But there are really many things that need to be discussed here. I am also convinced that this is a plenary which should talk about this document. At the same time, the Home Secretary on the Security Committee said that this is a lively document to be discussed in a thorough way. And I am convinced that there are many mayors here, but also the captains who can transfer their practical experience to this very document in the context of the refugee crisis strategy, when it is said that the document will be completed, to complete it. So we would really like to ask that this item be placed on the agenda of this meeting. [[15.30 hours]] After me, Mr. Jiří Mašek, who was on the Security Committee rapporteur for this strategic document, even though the Security Committee was also spoken by both Mr. Vlček and the Minister of the Interior, will say that this is not a strategy, that it is still strategic priorities, but if the Chamber of Deputies approved that we should receive this strategy by 14 April, then everyone should have received it. So yesterday she came by e-mail from the organizational committee, it certainly was not on 14 April, but they could certainly forward it to the Members, because everyone has representation in the Security Committee. So I wouldn't object in any way. What bothers me is that such an important document and such an important matter is not included on the agenda of this Chamber of Deputies. So, Madam President, I would like to ask you very much to include a point, and this is the Strategy for the Management of the Refugee Crisis, and I would like this item to be put on the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u29	Thank you for the proposal. Now, President Jakob with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Schillerová here said that they ruled in front of the covid evenly or in excess, so I would just point out the state budget balance here, because we were always negative. In 2014 - minus 112 billion, 2015 - minus 100 billion, 2016 - minus 70 billion, 2017 - minus 60 billion, 2018 - minus 50 billion, 2019 - minus 40 billion and the last two years minus 500 billion. And don't argue with the real balance when you've introduced a subsidy from the European Union into your income, or as your colleague Skopeček sends a message, as well as the balances from the National Property Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, hold on, Madam President, Vice-President Mračková Mrs. [[to Ms Schiller]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u32	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I would also like to respond to Mr Jakob's Chairman of the TOP 09 parliamentary club, through Madam President. He certainly knows that the YES movement here in November, in December, begged you to approve the agenda of a meeting that would address the reduction of the VAT rate on energy, so that the funds would be given to households and entrepreneurs from renewable sources from the so-called Modernisation Fund. It was me who asked you slowly here: Let's, let's approve the program, let's do it. If then the government comes up with some better solution, let's come up and say, we have another solution on the table, but we need to accept it from 1 January. The finance ex-minister and our President pushed through the fact that there was a 0% energy rate in November and December, and thus inflation did not rise higher and was around 6%. We've been telling you all along. And it bothers me, because I was in the last House, and I had the honour of sitting here in the very middle, where Mr Krejza sits today, and I remember the Members coming here and saying: In the covido you still have to help these, they are still translators, they are still others who need, and so on, government, respond to it! You have to write another grant program, you have to help! It was no one's fault that covid showed up here, and at this point in the refugee crisis, you too will be and see for yourself that today you are presenting a Strategic Paper on the solution to the refugee crisis, where you say it will probably cost about 54 billion, but you don't have that money in your budget. At the same time, and this is very important information, which Vít Rakušan told on the Security Committee that the negotiations of prime ministers at European level will take place on 31 May and that the budget will not change until then. And I want to ask, when do cities, municipalities, regions get the funds in the context of the refugee crisis? Are we going to wait until May 31st until the Prime Minister sits down? They may agree to something, may not agree, but we all know that the process of discussing and changing the state budget isn't from one day to the next. And I have to say, today, and when you're talking to the mayor's officers, when it was covid time, they got the money and they got it right away. Today it's announced that every county was supposed to get $10 million. Then ask them. They didn't get a penny until now! So what I think is that using here is that there was help in the covido period, and there was no other way, and now you're in the same situation, except that we keep telling you what you don't want to hear, that there are two crises. There's a crisis going on, and there's a crisis going on, and both crises have to be dealt with at once. After all, you have to hear how people - and I see it on social networks - see how people feel about it, that at this point, the help is not what it should be. And you still don't want to hear the one thing that 24 states have reduced their VAT, they've put a price on it. And why didn't we? Because the last government suggested it? Is that why? But we're here to help people, and those people need help and they need it now, because once we don't, it can also happen that businesses are going to shut down, that people aren't going to have a job and that there's going to be a big chain reaction. I'd like to ask all of you to come to your senses and deal with the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, now with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová and I wish you a good afternoon. Let's keep talking. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good afternoon to you, too. Thank you for the floor. It doesn't really help the citizens, it's our squabbling who's owed so much. Of course, I have the charts, and I'm still in it. You know, those first years, when Andrej Babiš became Minister of Finance, he had to pay off debts that your governments cut - 44.4 percent of GDP was debt at the end of 2013. And that European money was there in 2017? Why not? You will also receive European money. Almost 300 billion are still on the way from the former programming period and the new programming period, well negotiated and so on. That means, these are things that will be taken into the state budget and involved. Once again, I remind you that the balance of 2018 and 2019, which was two years before my ministering before the outbreak of the pandemic, was over, and now I am talking not about the plan, but about the result, the surplus one year, a little surplus, let me speak honestly, and the next year almost balanced budget. At the end of 2021, and these are the recent figures of the Ministry of Finance that I looked up on their website, the debt is 41.9 percent of GDP, although we have two years behind us, as you say, extreme debt. Still lower than at the end of your reigns! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, too. This was all the priority rights and now Mr. Jiří Mašek is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u36	Madam Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, I would like to speak with a change in the agenda of the meeting on migration, as Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková has already anonced here, and it is a question of the migration wave and its solution. The number 306 000 registered refugees from Ukraine fell here. In the present days the fact is that Ukrajinec here in the Czech Republic are more and not all are registered. There are numbers around 100,000 children by compulsory school, 24,000 Ukrainian, today you can say almost fellow citizens, managed to employ, and this is quite an interesting number, and from the perspective of future development, as we discussed here also in the House, the possibility of employing Ukrajinec long-term, possibly during their long-term stay in the Czech Republic, can be interesting for further development, perhaps in our Republic. We have reached the Security Committee on the issue of registrations of the so-called KACPU, which are the regional registration points, and we have actually opened up the issue of security because there are specialists among us who used to work in foreign police and the like and have seen certain and possible dangers for internal security in the Czech Republic according to the fact that the registration would not be consistent. Today it turns out that the topic that we opened up to the Security Committee was right, because it is important for security in the Czech Republic that migrants not only be properly registered, but mainly to provide accommodation for them, to provide schools for them, to provide health care for them. Of course, all this is being worked on, but it was missing at the beginning of the migration plan. And therefore, since 10. 3. on the Security Committee, we had the opportunity to speak with the Minister of the Interior, who was present on this committee, to ask the Minister to prepare a migration plan, or to prepare it, within a period of about 14 days. This plan should be prepared - and this was our requirement - according to the number of migrants and the development of the migration situation, because of course there are more unknown - the duration of the war conflict and the possibility of returning some migrants to a territory where they are no longer fighting, or, respectively, at the end of the war conflict and the return of more migrants, of course, to model different situations. The main objective, however, was, according to the number of incoming migrants, to provide accommodation, health care, education so that they were prepared. All of this is being dealt with in a so-called emergency state. The emergency situation is, in fact, a framework of crisis issues in which this situation can be addressed under crisis laws. Here, let me just remind you that in the past, when we wanted to use him in the context of the covido situation, it did not meet with success and was replaced - here you all remember the long discussion in relation to the case - the pandemic law, but it turned out that it was an important tool in dealing with the migration crisis, and the current government five-calice even had it extended until May 28. We agreed to this because we know what an emergency situation actually allows. It allows you to react quickly, allows you to buy quickly and what needs to be done in real time. But the emergency is one thing, and that is that in times of emergency, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the coordination of individual ministries and the coordinated procedure of these departments. We have also captured the fact that the government intends to appoint a coordinator for the migration crisis or for migration, and here I think that we are running a little bit out of the law, and I remind you that the emergency situation is valid until 28 May and that, at least until then, even by law, the Minister of the Interior should be responsible for this issue. That's why we reached out to the Home Secretary for 10. 3. on the Security Committee referred to above, where I have read the motion for a resolution which was subsequently approved, and within the framework of this resolution, a request was made for the Government to submit a comprehensive migration plan with procedures established according to the number of registered refugees by 31. 3. Minister Rakušan asked for that term so that he could coordinate it interdepartmentally and that the plan would be really complex. Next, I am at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on 29. 3. when an extension of the emergency situation was discussed here, he re-reads the motion for a resolution which was just binding the Government of the Czech Republic right here in the Chamber of Deputies with a similar requirement. But then Minister Rakušan here asked to postpone the deadline, that is, the term he promised us on the Security Committee, he had it postponed by fourteen days, and we, as opposition, agreed to it. 14 days 4. We have actually been presented with a document on the migration strategy by resort. However, the document did not meet what we requested, or scaled by the number of migrants or scaled by the number of migrants moving. I just want to remind you for the sake of drawing, because I know this from a particular experience: it is not really well known about the movement of migrants, and if we wanted some really valid numbers, we would have to ask telephone operators who would tell us how many migrants are currently in the Czech Republic or with some precision. In fact, such things happen that a number of refugees are not registered at registration points and are moving around the Republic. We have experience in Hradec Králové from one of the recreational facilities that we have released for migrants and which had to be released these days. We offered them other accommodations and from the roughly 90 migrants who were accommodated there, forty without problems took over other accommodations that were offered to them. Thirty who were registered disappeared somewhere else, didn't report where they went, and then it turned out at the check that 16 of those who lived there didn't pass the KACPU at all. So there's a certain risk, a certain percentage of migrants moving around here -- you could basically say in quotes -- illegally. Coincidentally, the 16 were young men of working age. We have also pushed for consistent records to be carried out on these KACPUs, not only from the point of view of safety such as photographs of refugees, but also in some cases such as dactyloscopy, fingerprints or further data collection. I understand that this was not possible at the beginning, but, for example, the photography took place only when more than 250,000 migrants were registered in the Czech Republic. A number of things had to be done for migrants, and for that it is necessary to thank them and perhaps give a little applause, because we all have the view that migrants need to be properly cared for, so when I say, for example, health care and health insurance to these migrants by obtaining the status of state insured, another thing then maybe allowing them to register for other insurance companies if they have obtained employment, and so on, it all works quite well. However, even here, the government is obliged to obtain sufficient financial resources for this, because in the same situation or at the same time, when more than 300,000 health insured persons were added here, of the vast majority of state health insured people, the contribution for state insured persons should be reduced by CZK 400 from 1 July. [[15.50 hours]] So these are things that go a little against each other, and they need to be discussed. At the same time, the possibility needs to be used, and now the Ministry of Health is trying to address it, to use Ukrainian health professionals. It's all for a longer discussion, a question of accommodation, a question of education, depending on how children are going to grow. It doesn't matter if 50 kids are compulsory here or if there's 150,000 of them. And that's where we need to scale, and it's important for the school directors and school founders to know how they're going to proceed with some specific numbers. So those things turned out to be more than just the security that we started with in the Security Committee, but that we need to open up a debate on the strategy and process of passing the migration wave right here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. As my honored colleague here has already said, taking advantage of you from different regions, being in the councils, many of you are mayors, dealing with these problems basically every day, and the problem simply doesn't end by waving a magic wand, you need to get back to it. And since the Minister, or the entire government, Minister Rakušan and the entire government, were obliged by the resolution of this Chamber of Deputies, where we voted unanimously, I personally miss the fact that this point was not actively included by the five-wheelers, because the date of 14 April had passed. Therefore, I would like to ask for the inclusion of the item Filling in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 29. 3. 2022, which undertook the government by presenting a strategic document Plan for the management of the refugee wave with a deadline of 14. 4. 2022. And I would like to ask for this point as the second item of tomorrow's programme, or Wednesday 27. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u37	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Margita Balaštíková is now registered and Mr Radek Vondráček will be prepared after her. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u38	Hello, colleagues, and I would like to ask for a new point in today's meeting on government failure to act to increase entry prices for agricultural and food commodities. The situation is, of course, very difficult now, it is unpredictable, and I would therefore expect decisive, and especially timely, government action. The governments of the surrounding countries try to help their businesses and their citizens with various tools and try to reduce the rise in food prices as a result of abnormally rising raw material prices and cost items related to food production and production, including primary agricultural production. Professional agricultural organisations strive in vain to allow personal negotiations with the Minister of Agriculture, and especially with the Prime Minister of our country. The Prime Minister refuses to deal with a professional organisation representing all the farmers, and I consider this behaviour to be contempt for those who produce food and who feed our fellow citizens, feed us and our fellow Members, senators and you too, Prime Minister, through Madam President, I think they are alive. Or do you, Prime Minister, eat breakfast, eat lunch and eat food from a country other than the Czech Republic? By your disrespect for the agricultural and food state and your inactivity, you're putting us all in awe of what's going to happen. According to recently published surveys, Čech are beginning to fear. And I am now quoting from the press: "The Čech were so afraid during the economic crisis of 2011 to 2013 and are said to have been less frightened even by covid. Even then, the general budget cuts of the ODS government and TOP 09 threw heavy consumer depression on the Czech Republic, which helped cause record-long and basically unnecessary recession." End of quote. ODS and TOP 09 are once again in government and jointly dictate economic policy. So I'm quite surprised that they haven't learned from their own history, because their dogmatic cuts have caused a major economic downturn. It is a crisis and the task of the current government is to be a crisis manager. However, we and some citizens see a government of gestures. We'll rename the streets, ban Russian ice cream. But I ask, where is the systematic assistance to our companies and our citizens? Because none of us eat empty gestures. Farmers and food producers must feel that the government is behind them, that it is on their side and that it wants them in this country. I don't think this is happening. We, and it is certainly a large majority of you, coalition partners, who stand behind our farmers and food professionals, and together we want food security not only physical but also financial for our citizens. We do not want a group of citizens to come into existence who will be miserable on dry bread and a cup of milk. She's been here a long time, and I don't think any of us want her to come back. Giving out beggars in difficult writing material, I think it's undignified these days. And please, let's talk about what our people will have on their plate and what we will feed our nation. We have the tools that the EU itself offers us. Therefore, please do not say, government, "no" to these instruments, because our farmers and food farmers will no longer solve this. I can't do it anymore. These people are alone at their maximum concessions they have made to be able to supply Czech food to our table at all times. And I would love for us all to realize one important thing. The Ministry of Agriculture is not just the Ministry of Agriculture for farmers and food professionals, it is the Ministry for all citizens. Why? Because our entire nation is alive. And I would like to forget the discords, so that this item is included in the agenda for this meeting, and we have seriously discussed what we can do for our citizens and farmers and food professionals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, Madame, and before I give the floor to Mrs Vildumetzová, I will, of course, read the apologies - with priority rights. He apologizes to Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, namely 26. 4. from 15 a.m. to the end of the day of the hearing and 27. 4. from the beginning to the end of the day due to illness. Mrs Iveta Štefanová also apologizes for health reasons as of 15. 40 hours until the end of the day of the hearing. Another apology is from Mr Ondřej Benešík, today 26. 4. from 15.10 am to 16.20 pm for work reasons and the last apology is the apology of Mr Jaroslav Bašta today between 15 and 18 pm for health reasons. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u40	Thank you, ma'am, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to clarify my proposal to include a point on the Refugee Wave Management Strategy, when I said that I would like this point to be put on the agenda for this meeting, and I would also like to clarify that I would ask that it be placed as the first point on tomorrow's agenda, that is, on Wednesday, or as the second point after the third reading block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. Minister Vít Rakušan will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just more or less technically. As a government, we certainly want to include the negotiation of the strategy. It's how the Chamber of Deputies has put us in charge since we were 14. 4. really in the system. This means that we have fulfilled the deadline as given by the Chamber of Deputies. We can have a discussion about the quality of the material - surely there will be an opportunity for it, the origins of the material and so on. However, please understand that the government wants to include the material at such a moment that all the gesture ministers responsible for the various departments can be present. We do not want to be represented by one single person, that is, the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister, but really gesture ministers. I expected a little - but I have nothing to say, it is a free decision of the Chamber of Deputies and the chairmen of the various committees - but I assumed a little that what Mr.Žáček did immediately, even after the Security Committee resolution, included the material in the Security Committee, I expected a little that when it came to 14. 4. in the system available that social, health, even other committees, school and the like, will deal with the material. She's available in the system. I have not yet noticed the interest of a single committee to deal with this material. I understand that we can turn this around, but I find it more logical to have concrete committee outcomes the way the Security Committee did. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies was there, and she also commented on this. But I would have assumed that the objections, the comments, the questions against us would come from the other committees. It went unnoticed, I don't know why. I was only communicating with the competent committee, which means the security officer who discussed it. So now it is really logical to consider whether to not let committees discuss this and then at some more advanced stage - because the material is evolving, according to the government's resolution, the strategic working group is working on eleven working teams, the conclusions will, of course, be more specific - many questions from the Security Committee can already be answered to a greater extent, detail. My work proposal - so that you do not think that we are avoiding the presentation in the Chamber of Deputies - that I would like to ask the chair of the various committees to discuss the material, the part that concerns them, to the committees. Then we will certainly address this in the Chamber of Deputies in the context of a long debate at a time when sufficient space will be created for this and the participation of all the relevant ministers will be organized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u43	Thank you, Minister. Now with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u44	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to the Minister of the Interior, especially with the fact that he said here that this document should have been discussed by the Health Committee, the Social Committee, the Education Committee and so on. I would just like to remind the Minister of the Interior that he was approved by the government as a national coordinator, and that I think it should be said from his side that, if necessary - I did not notice this on the Security Committee - that those committees should deal with this. I'm sure I agree with that, but I must say that the next 11 days have passed since the Security Committee, which took place on 14 April, and that this discussion could have taken place long ago. I think that you were in those working teams because the document you presented to us on the Security Committee was the one that was being addressed by the various departments, so I don't think that he could come up with an appeal from you to do so, not to mention that your coalition MPs are also in charge of those committees. So at this point, I think it's just a delay. And really, this document is important, and it is crucial that all citizens know what's going to happen here in three months, in six months, in a year, which is why this strategy is so necessary. The strategy is promising us here. She made promises by 30 March, promised by 14 April, and is not until now. Because it's not a strategy, you didn't give us a strategy to solve the refugee crisis. So once again, I note that it is necessary for this material to be discussed in the House of Deputies as soon as possible in order to implement the resolution that we have adopted here, and that is that the strategy is to be presented by 14 April. Today is April 26th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u45	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. With priority rights Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u46	Don't worry, for the last time, I'm starting a meeting at 4:00, and I'm excused. This is where we put the exercise in the data. Yes, it's 21 today. 4... well, there's more, 26. 4. I was even wrong. All right, 14. 4. was a strategic starting point in the system. That is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, and I am not going to argue about whether or not this was a strategy, wasn't there a strategy that we've been asking for in the past crisis all along? We have complied with the resolution, even voted for it, 14. 4. as we were obliged, was a given thing in the system. Let the committees deal with this. Of course, I'll be happy to come up with those committees, just like the other Gesture Ministers. But I think it is the responsibility, yes, through the Vice-President, that is up to the government, that the government will certainly fulfil that responsibility, and that material will be presented to the Chamber of Deputies. But don't tell me he wasn't presented. It was submitted by 14. 4. how the House committed us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. Mr Radek Vondráček will now appear. You have an application here. Mr Miloslav Janulík will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. For starters, maybe the technical part to monitor you well, so I'm suggesting a new item on the program. That point would be named as it is on my written application - I hope to say it correctly: Information of the Government on the legal situation in the area of freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. In addition to the inclusion of a new point there then I suggest a priority classification. The first point on the written application is after the third reading, but a moment ago, my honourable colleague, Vice-President Vildumetzová Mračková, was proposed here, so I will probably modify it and suggest that it be the second point after the third reading tomorrow, Wednesday. If this proposal is not accepted, then I suggest that it be the very first point on Friday. There are also more of these proposals, but there I already insist that the vote be taken. As far as my proposal itself is concerned, I believe that this is such a serious issue that we are unable to deal with it within the framework of the intercession. Although I have always tried to explain that this is the time to ask the various ministers, and that is the time to take advantage of the situation in the area of legislation and the rule of law and respect for the law in the Czech Republic when restricting freedom of speech and freedom of speech in the Czech Republic is so serious and it affects more ministries, so I am deeply convinced that we should put this item on the agenda, we should discuss it. It is in the interest of the government coalition, in particular, that we share opinions here in the Chamber of Deputies, which sometimes take place halfway in the media, are taking place in various civil forums, there are various debates between citizens and the information is different, the media information is different. I think we should finally be clear here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think it will be a well sacrificed parliamentary time if we use an hour or two to do so in the way that freedom of speech in the Czech Republic can or can be threatened. I wanted to start with a wise quote to impress the audience. I thought I'd read the famous Voltairův sentence here, "I don't agree with anything you say, but I'll always fight for your right to say it." But, dear friends, according to the current definition, this sentence is fake news, because Voltaire never said that sentence. That sentence didn't appear until later in another piece. So it would probably be unfortunate to start with a point that relates to misinformation with that sentence. [[16.10 hours]] Then I came up with another great source of beautiful quotes about freedom and freedom of speech, George Orwell, who, for example, wrote in his essays that the rule of law exists only where political views, which may seem legitimately amoral or despicable to the majority population, are not sanctioned in any legal way, otherwise freedom of expression is not given, and therefore neither can such a state be considered democratic. I came across the problem with Orwell again that a citizen wrote to me in an e-mail - so he wrote it to all of us, he wrote it there, maybe you got it too. He wrote to us: "Dear politicians, when Orwell wrote his novel 1984, he meant it as a warning, not as a guide. " So I decided to finally put on what my friend, the car racer, said, who I sometimes ride with and who just said that he thought people had enough sense to take over the information themselves, and we shouldn't do anything about it. I'd use my time to tell you another story. Last week I attended some meeting of higher courts in Kroměříž at our Justice Academy and sat there next to the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek. At that moment, I received a request from a television station asking if I would take part in a debate on restrictions or the fight against misinformation and legislation in this area, and that this is going to happen at the Ministry of Justice. As the Attorney General sat next to me, I gave him the SMS and asked him for his opinion. He told me that it wasn't true, that there was no law in the Justice Department, and he wasn't going to, and he didn't intend to. So it looked like it was the Home Office. However, as I have learned now from other newspaper articles that I have at my disposal here and which I can possibly quote, there is no such legislation at the Ministry of the Interior. Minister Rakušan only told Czech Television that repressive actions in the form of the preparation of new legislation are the most extreme solution that we are currently discussing only theoretically. Nevertheless, my interview with the television took place, we discussed the topic of the preparation of the new law, even though the ministries told me that no new law was being prepared. And if my knowledge reaches, then I was only quoted in the main news that I would be more conservative in a case like this. There was nothing in the report about the minister telling me that he wasn't going to do anything. That means there's a real demand here for a change in legislation, but it denies both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. Speaker of the Pirate Party Veronika Šmídová also distanced herself and wrote that something like this, preparation of such a law, was not going on, and we were not even informed by the coalition partners that it would take place with them. And the Pirate Party is a party that has a vice-premiere for digitization and also concerns digital space, and above all has its representative as President of the Legislative Council of the Government and Minister of Legislation. That means, of all the respondents, no one has confirmed that this law is being prepared, despite the fact that I regularly read about it. And I would just like to explain it on a special point that we would put on the agenda. We could actually have some kind of constructive fun, or we could switch to committee meetings. In this case, our new government agent Mr Klíma repeatedly comments on the matter for the fight against misinformation, which he expressed in the sense of iRozlas, that there are a number of disinformation analyses, which arise or arise different departments at ministries dealing with it, analyse it. However, then again on a question, this time I think Czech Television, was told from the Office of the Government that the Office of the Government does not have the information required in the request. That is, if Mr. Michal Klíma said we had enough analysis, but the Office of the Government says they didn't have one. Of course, the situation is very sensitive to citizens, I have actually participated in several debates and discussions on this subject. Information is being multiplied on the Internet environment, and the fact that we are getting into a situation here where a number of disinformation sites have been shut down, or sometimes rather, really opinion websites without happening on the basis of the law or at least the decision of the government, is really alarming. I would therefore ask the Government to explain whether there really is only one general resolution on the recommendation of those Internet service providers to do something about it, and subsequently, after consulting perhaps military intelligence, the disinformation sites were shut down in the first phase. At first it was said that perhaps there was a letter sent by the government to these providers by NIC.cz . I have not seen the letter to this day as a Member of Parliament and a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Does it exist or doesn't it exist? Then the question is: can a letter be created without legal basis, without legal basis, which the government will write to someone that wishes to shut down any websites? Apparently, it doesn't even exist. All this seems to have been done orally, and that is precisely the biggest problem, that we are currently moving in an environment where everything is basically created only, as they say, in per-mouth quotation marks, without any legal or legal framework. Yet freedom of speech is one of the most fundamental freedoms that we have in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms at all, and its limits are very strict. The limit can only be legal, and yet it must be within that limit that the law cannot be used by the majority. They have the truth that such a law on restrictions on freedom of speech is very difficult to write because you run into constitutional limits and come across legal limits. The worst part is, there's nothing here. This is also criticized by media and commentators who are more on the government's side in the opinion spectrum. These are the people who know that we are in some kind of information war that we need to fight against Russian trolls, but they also stop at the form that it is not possible to do so only orally, without any legislation. In Slovakia, for example, they adopted very quickly, in some short-term proceedings, a law which is subject to huge criticism, because it contains a very vague definition of all harmful information, period. And who determines what harmful information is? In Slovakia, they probably have no possibility of judicial review. Those who are closer to the government say: Well, at least in Slovakia they have the law. It's just a difficult time, it's a difficult time, we should make a law fast, so we can at least have the law. But the only thing I don't mind is that we don't have the law, of course I would mind the Slovak law, which I think is completely contrary to international obligations. Here I will quote comment number 34 of the United Nations Committee on Human Rights: 'It is about justice' - freedom of speech - 'from which there is no exception or restriction. Freedom of opinion affects the right to change your mind whenever and for whatever reason the person wishes. No one shall be subject to any restriction on the rights guaranteed by the Pact due to their actual, perceived or anticipated views. All kinds of opinions, including political, scientific, historical, moral or religious opinions, are protected. The harassment, intimidation or stigmatisation of a person, including imprisonment, detention, trial or detention, on the grounds of an opinion which he may have held, constitutes an infringement of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Whereas: 1." [[16.20 hours]] There is basically only one way to fight misinformation - some information literacy - and it has to be argued. Fighting some opinions by shutting them down, removing them from public space, does not work the same way, especially in the area of the Internet, where information spreads in a different way, paradoxically gaining more power, and those who spread them are convinced that they are spreading some forbidden truth. I think we are talking about constitutional issues, and we should take some time within the Chamber of Deputies. As humans, we have already learned to recognize a lie or some disinformation in our normal interpersonal intercourse, because you look into that person's eyes, you look at the body language, but in that virtual environment, we're still basically partially helpless and we don't have basic habits, we don't know if anyone's lying to us or not. Moreover, the way you can fake photos, how you can invent any text, fake videos, is breathtaking how easy it is to change and fake reality. And we have to learn it. [[recognize]] I dare say that as a politician in eight years, I've already developed that habit. The habit is that I basically don't believe anything in advance until I verify it from two or three other serious sources. But a lot of our citizens don't have that option yet. But that doesn't mean that we're gonna treat them in a way... like a herd that we're gonna choose, which opinions are or aren't the right ones. We should treat citizens with respect so that it is up to them to make that view themselves, and we should only work to help with education and to spread the right arguments. The way and the way in which the government has set out, forbidding information, restricting freedom of speech, is absolutely wrong and will lead to completely opposite results and will eventually turn against those who enforce these ways. The only limits of freedom of speech may be within the framework of criminal law within individual factual elements, such as the dissemination of an alarm report, but here we have quite a rich case-law and we know that there is, above all, a need to demonstrate the intention that someone is deliberately spreading an alarm report, and that alarm report is capable of causing panic in the population, for example. Those are the legal limits I want to talk about. Unfortunately, I have to say here that if the news is shutting down today - or I don't know what I would call them, I don't read them - so I'm basically not fighting for the content, I'm fighting for the form that we have it wrong in the Czech Republic, that some government resolution was actually enough, and then somebody started turning off websites. We have to stand up to this in some way and give it some kind of legal framework. Until then, the Czech Republic cannot be referred to as the rule of law. We have a lot of Members here who have often covered themselves in the past with the term of the rule of law, but a rule of law without freedom of speech is not possible. Even if we have a state that will have all democratic institutions properly elected, but we will not have freedom of speech, we cannot say that we are a rule of law. And for this reason, I would very much like to see the point that I am defending here in order to include it either tomorrow or Friday, so that we can hear from the various ministers whether there is something going on or not, how it is possible that, without any legal framework, there is such serious interference in the freedom of speech as the plan, what is judicial protection. Those providers are shielded by the fact that they are actually private law entities, everyone signed some conditions and in those conditions they agreed to be disabled. But that's a huge alibi of this government that she framed someone else for setting up private subjects. Freedom of speech must be decided by the government, elected politicians must decide, a citizen must be respected, and someone must bear responsibility. But there's no one here to sign up for it, and it looks like it's all going on some autopilot, and I'd like to ask all these questions at a special point that we'd like to put in plenary. And I'm the first to admit that we have a lot of implementation, we have a lot of work to do, and we have to adopt the relevant legislation, but this is just more important. It will not stand up to the war either, because I remember reading an interview at the beginning of January with Ms. Attorney General Bradáčová, who spoke about the need to prevent the spread of hatred and that it is necessary to prosecute opinions in some way. That's nothing new, except that this trend has gotten stronger here because we're in an information war, and I'm once again admitting that the information war is and it's completely legitimate that the states that run it just have to lead it, otherwise there's no conflict to win. Disinformation, there's nothing new, misinformation is as old as humanity itself. [[♪ to ♪]] I believe they used disinformation by the Stone Age. Each of you sitting here remembers some misinformation in written history, at least you know when Octavianus forged Antoniův will and claimed that Antonius did not wish to be buried in Rome, but in Egypt, and turned the Senate against Antoni. Or famous misinformation in Brno, when the Švéd were besieged by Brno, they rang at eleven o'clock that it was noon, and Torstenson pulled away. So it was a classic war ruse and misinformation by the Brňák. And so I could go on and on, but under the cover of the information war limit opinions, although they are stupid, although they are really wrong, it is wrong. If I paraphrase it a little bit, everyone has the right to be stupid and wrong, and no government is here to process information to their citizens and tell them in advance which information is correct and which information is wrong. To those who have endured this with me, thank you for your attention and please support this item on the agenda, it concerns all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Miloslav Janulík will now appear and prepare Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I won't be as long as my colleague, but I consider his message absolutely fatal because I didn't believe I could live to see something like this. I can't forgive the reminiscence that I learned more than 30 years ago - or in that life I had to learn - to read between the lines, and now it's very useful to me. That's when I could watch Free Europe or The Voice of America. I don't know what I'm gonna watch today, maybe a foot radio. But I would propose a new point to our negotiations and, of course, the logic of the matter concerns health care, and this is the issue of providing and financing health care to Ukrainian refugees. He mentioned it here by fellow Mašek, but I really think that the matter is very serious, how nice it is that it really eclipses the importance of many others, not so important things from my point of view, and maybe not only from my point of view, but also from our constituents' point of view. There are many of us who, unlike you, don't worry about it, but we're sitting in the front line of our offices, and none of you can imagine the huge quantum and penzion care that a physical person has to give to those who suddenly appear in this system hundreds of thousands of people who weren't here - hundreds of thousands of people - a month ago, and suddenly they just come to draw, become state insured people and come to receive care. Of course, we are solidarity, but we have to realize that this is from our common purse, that in health insurance there is money for all of us to be treated so that we can be treated, so, of course, every such intervention in this system is quite difficult to settle, because, of course, it drains resources that were intended for something in quotation marks completely different. Three months ago, no one could have imagined it, and we were upset that there were eyelids gathering on it or on it, and today they really jumped into our system hundreds of thousands, and we don't even know exactly, because there's no record of it. [[16.30 hours]] It's not quite that easy for these people to be somehow alienated into the system, incarnate, and you can't imagine the enormous amount of work it carries. Of course, this puts another huge increase in the burden, especially on first-time paramedics. You automatically assume that they'll just do it - because what they have left to do is keep quiet and shut up and step up like they said - so there's no word at all about it being any bonuses or how we're supposed to do it. Of course, when the banglishism and the holy enthusiasm pass away, there always comes sobering and day-to-day life. And, of course, we have to weigh in pharmacies behind those desks in our offices, because I don't want to explain to my patients that they're gonna have to wait for surgery right now, because they're gonna be preceded by someone who basically wants to get operated on for their money at our place, because somehow I'd say not as well-treated as our patients, our insured people, because when they're doing the same thing, it's not the same thing. And let's not be wrong, let's not misunderstand here that the level of care in Ukraine is the same as in the Czech Republic. No way, folks. And let's just say that a huge quantity of people are entering the system, and we don't know what kind of people are HIV positive because we've had a few thousand cases since 1984, about 7,000, and to this day Ukraine has 250,000, and that's just the registered ones. And the records and the system don't work as powerfully as we do, far from it, so count it, you can multiply this number by what you want, and these people will show up in that system. So we are not at all able to tell today and to calculate what claims it will have on the insurance system at all, and that the demands will be enormous, of course, we all know that. But as I'm saying, here in this holy enthusiasm, sometimes you forget about real life, that someone has to physically do it, investigate it all, capture it all, record it all. It's just a horrible amount of work that you kind of automatically assume someone's gonna do it, because what else is he gonna do, and that he might want something for it, well, God forbid, right? But what we are sitting there are asking these questions, and quite rightly so. They say, "Wait, all of a sudden I'm going to get so much, the day is only twenty-four hours, and the week is only seven days." And you understand, the physical possibilities-- even here, you're going to figure out that in those x-hours, only x-things are going to happen, and that's about any field of human activity. But in some weird way, we're assuming that it's going to happen somehow. No, somebody has to do it. And we don't know yet, we can't figure out how much it's going to cost, how much it's going to cost. And these are legitimate questions that I would love to make clear in advance, because here we are many colleagues on the board of health insurance companies and we have been trying for years to take care of the proper economy to make it work. I remember the time she didn't even have a legal reserve fund, and no one cared. And on the contrary, she's been in fantastic shape over the last few years, and I'm worried that time may have passed, it's over. And what happens next year, no one dares to guess. So far it is still in the holy enthusiasm that we are helping, well, but we simply cannot go beyond certain limits and strain nor would I say the patience of our constituents beyond a certain limit. And so I see that it is happening, and therefore I would like to see clear answers to these questions and, above all, clear perspectives, because you still come up with 400 CZK for those state insured persons entering the system, as your colleague rightly mentioned. And everyone, even the average student, who has a number of threes, counts, so when the cost is on the insured person, I don't know, 30,000 and what the payment is on the insured person, so, of course, the logic of the matter must be deficit. It doesn't involve so many people in the public health insurance system, so far it's 27,000, I've heard, which is some 10, 12 percent, but I consider that to be a success. But there was talk of it, and somehow it became clear that perhaps the European Union, to us, should contribute to this, to the states that bear the burden of this migration wave. So I haven't heard any more details yet. I'd like the government to be able to tell us something about it. She's not really the government here. [[The MP turns to the government bench where one minister sits.]] I recall from the past period that you were screaming that it was contempt for the House, and now there's no one here. Isn't the Minister afraid when he's here alone? I don't think he's scared. It's okay. [[Reactions from the hall: There are two ministers.]] So there's two ministers, okay. But I still remember the words that it was contempt for the House. So I'd like someone to answer that question. Of course, we know the ad hoc state today and daily. But what's next? Is there any way to hide it? It's costing us huge sums. We were listening to how we were throwing away, all of a sudden chop, 56 billion, 60 billion. Nobody says where they're getting married. That's not your money, that's all of us's money, that's taxpayers' money, so it would be good to tell those taxpayers: now we've taken it from you, but we have a prospect that some money will come from Brussels and that the health insurance system will not end up in such a fatal deficit. But it would also be good to tell those newcomers that it's not that they came to Eldorado or that Klondike is here. And I'm telling you things from practice. Summers of unsolved things they didn't do at home, they'd want to work out here yesterday afternoon, right away, and they're so surprised when I say, "I'm sorry, it's just not gonna work out. You've been living with this chronic problem for years, and it won't be that we're going to explain to our insured people tomorrow that you're going to stand back and wait - and of course, with the prospect of being a covid, we've been putting off surgery for two years and so on and so on and so on and so forth. We all have waiting leaves, I have a lot of patients waiting for them to get their turn, and now I'm supposed to say to them, "Please, will you wait because people who are more human or more needy come here, or what should we call it?" And that's not empty moaning behind the counter. That's real life, because in two, three days, this waste will end, and then that life will be there, because we have to sit there and treat these people. And now, of course, we're going to deal with it -- we lived in the '90s in a health insurance deficit, and we were experiencing it. We were waiting for insurance payments to come, which we treated in January, and the money came in July. You can't imagine, but that's just how it was, and I don't want to live to see it again. Of course, I don't have a lot of them anymore, I'd say. Six crosses, bent back, sang Roman Dragoun, but I don't see any other perspective. Once the system is in deficit, insurance companies have no choice but to postpone payments. Even the average math calculates that if we have 400 billion and it's 52 weeks, what's billion per week? So you move it a week, two, the maturity, and that's how you settle the balance. And you're gonna wonder how cool it is, but we're not gonna tell each other. It's an incredible time trip for me, because a few years ago, I listened to the top, as she said, that health needs to be changed. Well, then Minister Heger came and explained that no, there is no money, nothing will change. And now, for me, a journey in time, ten or twelve years: the top, the top minister again, even the one I went to gym class with, and he says, "We have to cut the payment for state insured people." I really feel like I've come out of a time machine. So what's been going on for 12 years? Really, it's just like a copycat. You were prepared for everything, you criticized everything, everything was wrong, but I don't see it well. I'm not saying that day, okay, O.K., but what's next? Because after tomorrow, there will be tomorrow and summer will come, autumn, so I'd like to see the issue of providing... first of all realize that someone has to provide the care - it's not just the money, but someone has to do it with their hands, do it, do the work, and you don't even talk about those people. You take it for granted that you throw 300,000 or 500,000 insured people into them, and they'll deal with it somehow. And you have no idea that you... [[16.40 hours]] It's like saying to a bricklayer, you have to do two more walls here. So, of course, he extends his hand, he says, "Sell the money, I'll do it to you." But here with the doctors and the nurses, don't you think they'd want more for it? You don't even think about it! You take this for granted. Someone has to do it, and I suppose somebody has to pay for it, too. But whoever pays for it is just us again. So I would like this item to be included in this meeting. I don't really care when, but to put him here, to talk about it, and to hear some kind of résumé. You said you knew everything, you knew everything, you had everything ready. So let's just have some of your know-it-all come out here and tell me how it's gonna be. If he tells me how, I'll be happy, I'll say, yes, thank you, I can hand this over to my constituents, and I'll tell the insured, say, don't worry, it's all taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u51	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mrs Adámková, I will read an apology. Mr Jaroslav Bašta apologizes today from 15 to 18 o'clock for work reasons. Now, please, Madame Věra Adámková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear ministers, I see you, thank you for being here, even three, and I said hello to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to the matter that is back from the field, from practice and from health - after all, you cannot expect from me or anything else, as you already know. You know what I really wish for? We all want to help, and that's okay, but we have to tell each other the truth, because the moment we don't tell each other the truth, we're giving ourselves false hopes. And if something is very bad for a sick person, it's false hope, because it can hurt him. I would like to draw your attention here to patients who, thank God, are not overreacting, but unfortunately, the course of their illness is very difficult and can end with death, and these are patients with blood disease, in this case with acute leukemia. We've been dealing with this problem a little bit, but we didn't have time to sort it all out. And maybe we didn't really get along with each other. Please nicely, we know at present, and these are the statistics that the Ministry gives us, official, that we have about 310,000 refugees, which are mostly, in 75 percent, children and women, and otherwise in the vast majority they are unhappy people. But these people are not healthy. They didn't just come here young, healthy, beautiful to spend the vacation. They came in sick, too, accidentally, or they come in sick here. And I want to turn your attention to a disease that I don't wish anyone to have, and I hope it avoids you all - unfortunately, it doesn't, it doesn't avoid our colleagues either, and we already know that, and that is acute leukemia. Please, the five-year survival of acute leukemia depends on the types, but I'm not gonna bother you with that right now, at the age of 20, it's 25 percent. Only a quarter of these people survive five years. You want to have it in the family so you can just say, "I don't know what to do? You don't want to. Neither do I. I'm not happy for you. pánbůh forbid. And look, it grows with age. Children under 14 years of age - survival 65 percent. Please, that's awful! More than 35 percent of children die within five years. It's rusty. Children 15 to 24 years old, or already young people, 60 percent, 25 to 64 years old - 40 percent and over 65 years old - and you know how many of us are over 65 years old, and we think we are still good for this republic - 5%, friends. Five percent! Those are the numbers that we're clear on. And this, of course, concerns ours, in this case the people we want to help, the Ukrajinec, but also ours. We can't split up here. But why do I say that? Because we could say, we have 75 percent of the kids out of 310,000 -- and today it could be 400,000, because we have the information a little bit late, as these people report, of course, that's completely human, and I can't criticize that at all. But look at the age of survival in Ukraine. That's not 80 years for women and 76 years for men like us, that's 20 years less. So we've got people coming in here that we're talking about, they're young, they're fifty-five - but be careful. It's about something else. We need to realise that the condition is not symmetrical. So we don't know exactly the prevalence here, so we don't know the incidence. But, of course, it concerns our people as well. What can we do with acute leukemia? You know there's chemo, radiotherapy. We can - and we can all finally, please, all of you, even those who are atheists, eventually pray because if they don't have anything else, they resort to it - and then we have a stem cell transplant. The stem cells and the transplant law that we passed here in the last parliamentary term went through a great misunderstanding, even one of the editors confused it with sperm administration. So to destroy acute leukemia and people sick, often sentenced to death - and with this one does not understand at all how it can be released from the mouth by a person who is living in the media space, because in my years, even a person who has had a fourth degree in biology in primary school understood what a stem cell or bone marrow is and what a sperm is. Maybe times change. [[Unintelligible.]] I don't know if that's the case, and I hope it isn't, of course it was just in the election fights. But the situation is serious, it's very serious. So let's see what we can do for that. I'd like to put you in a lot of trouble. The idea of someone having acute leukemia and thinking, "We're a wide family, they're gonna give me a transplant." So please, the relatives, if this guy's lucky, they're in the middle of it. And now, specifically, we could talk here, but of course, I'm not gonna do it specifically with the name of a man who has four siblings, and please, no one's right. No one's right, just can't. So we're hoping to keep looking. And where are we looking in that case? In the register. In international or Czech, which is connected to the international register of bone marrow donors. How many bone marrow transplants do I have? Please, about 15,000 in the world, that's a thousand more than 30 years ago. Thirty years ago, I wouldn't even be standing here because we couldn't work much with it. And let's see how it occurs. With age again. By the age of 70, it was 15 per 100,000, and in the median of 65 years it was a little bit more. And that's why I want to appeal with this introduction here to put this point in order. Why? Because we have also promised the Ukrajinec - and there is hardly any such treatment - and we promise them that they will be a state insured person and that is why they can be treated here. Of course, it's not about overpowering these people. The prevalence is clear, it's not that high. But if we want to help them, we must have the means to do so, but also to change the law. Why? Please, complications after taking the bone marrow, which is an outpatient exercise, when a donor who is anonymous, injects into the sternum and drains part of the bone marrow, it's routine for those people, they can do it, and the complications associated with some incompetence are thin. But what's the problem? He came from the field. The director of the Central Bone Marrow Registry has alerted us. It's gonna happen. [[The speaker is waiting. There's a lot of noise in the room. Then the O.R. calmed down.]] Thank you. And these people don't have the cover that other organ donors have for transplants. What we can do for them is to change this bill, which means if they were incompetent, if they were - you can see that this is a conditional - if there was a complication, give them a full salary, as we give to other organ donors. There's nothing else, please. So please nicely, it's very simple, it's transparent, obviously under the dictum of the Ministry of Health. And I'd use two bonmots here that we've been hearing a lot in the past period. One is now a minister, formerly Mrs Černochová, who always said: If there is anything to be said for, then let us commend it. And she was right. And I would like to thank - not to praise in this case, that is not my place - but to thank the Minister of Health, who is not here, but who had the courage to sign this bill because he knows it is very important. And his colleagues from Brno - because he is from Brno, from oncology - of course they told him they needed him. And the second bonmot that I would take away from the current Minister of Transport, Mr. Stanjura, was, "Don't be shy. [[correct: finance]] And I would say nicely also: Friends, don't be ashamed to say your opinion. If you do not support the inclusion of this point, you will give a clear signal not only to our guests at present - we hope that by temporary, of course, everything will calm down, because in the end each war ends with a treaty. She hasn't finished anybody else in history. And that contract has to be clear. But if we've invited them here, if we're guaranteeing treatment, then of course we have to do it. [[16.50 hours]] So I would take the liberty of assigning - and since I consider this point very important, it is Parliament's 162 - for a fixed time, and that is Wednesday at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u53	Thank you, Madame. Mr Martin Kolovratník is now in office, and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u54	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. I will speak very briefly on behalf of the electoral committee as its chairman and ask Madam President and colleagues from the organisational department to mark my proposal. Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies today proposed from Gremia a firm inclusion of all voting points for tomorrow at 13.30, but we in paragraph 79, in the first proposal for changes in the composition of the institutions, we have no proposal, it is empty, therefore it is not necessary to include it at all, it would be put there for tomorrow for nothing. So, please, if the Grémia proposal were to be modified, that all voting points would be at 13.30 tomorrow, but only from point 80 firmly, and only those changes in the composition can be left to be included in the agenda, but without a fixed classification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u55	That means that point 79, Mr. Ambassador, is not to be classified because it is not fulfilled, okay? [[Member of the Colonnavigator agrees.]] Thank you. And now, Mrs Berenika Peštová is enrolled and Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared a point on the Government's Lax approach to carriers. In recent times, if we've all been watching, the government has done nothing for the carrier. The government has rejected the ceiling on fuel prices and the reduction or remission of VAT. Instead, it presented a set of measures - a so-called versatile four-leaf clover. So what is part of the four-leaf clover and whether these measures will have a sufficient effect on the carrier, we will ask ourselves. So we have measure number one - cancellation of mandatory incorporation of biocomponents. It should be noted that the compulsory incorporation of biofuels by means of the Air Act was 1. 9. 2007 started with 2 volumes per cent to diesel, respectively from 1. 1. 2008 2 percent by volume in petrol. From 1. 6. 2010 this percentage increased to 6 percent for diesel fuel and 4.1 percent vol. There has been no increase since then. In 2012, a mandatory reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from supplied fuels was introduced with a gradual run-up, where since 2020, fuel suppliers are required to reduce 6 percent of these emissions, which is the transposition of the directive, and nothing our state will do about it. Therefore, the abolition of the incorporation of biofuels will not change anything, as it will continue to mix, otherwise these 6 percent will not reach fuel suppliers. So it's a big zero for the carrier. Second measure - cancellation of road tax on passenger and freight cars up to 12 tonnes. Cancellation of the road tax is about CZK 230 000 for the medium company. The notabene discount on road tax is already applied today according to the age of vehicles - up to three years it is 48 percent, up to six years it is 40 percent and up to nine years it is 25 percent. Therefore, our government has come up with a discount. However, it cannot be expected that, while fuel prices are rising, ordinary citizens would feel the abolition of road taxes, who will feel the rise in fuel prices secondarily when purchasing goods and services from entrepreneurs. Third measure - margin control. The Ministry of Finance found that the previous analysis had not shown a disproportionate margin, after kneeling at the petrol stations, whether or not the fuel vendors charged a disproportionate margin. Furthermore, it did not demonstrate that sales prices were shot off from wholesale stock prices, so the result is also a large zero. Otherwise, the Ministry of Finance's findings are in line with the conclusions of the Antimonopoly Office, which has already pointed out on 10 March that, from its point of view, there is no distortion of competition and that price increases are only affected by price developments in world oil markets. Fourth measure - reduction of excise duty. This reduction is due to occur from 1 June to 30 September, by 1.50 crowns, and until then what? Will there be any more carriers? The question is, what's left for the carriers? Transfer all the extra costs to the customer, which is the ideal condition for them, but absolutely unrealistic. They are causing serious economic damage every day. They can either drive under costs or shut down cars or engage in activities other than transport. And who is the government helping? Well, if you ask the carriers, they'll tell you that because of this, they're losing their customers who are leaving for foreign carriers, because they have much lower prices. And if anyone thinks that when the prices stabilize, that these customers will come back to them, well, no way. So this is our target? Chasing customers of our carriers into the throats of carriers from abroad and thus destroying our carriers? So I'd like to place this point as a second point for Friday's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u57	Thank you. Let me just make sure, Madame: your point is called the Lax approach of the government to carriers. Isn't that right? [[Mrs Pest agrees.]] Thank you. And now, Mr Richard Brabec will appear and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am now a bit of a different judge, although it will be partly related to what Mrs Peštová said, but above all, it will follow up on what Vice-President Havlíček said. I would, and the previous one, like to ask for a fixed classification of the point that is in the program, but it is classified as point 60. This is the House press 154, which amends Act 383 on the trading conditions for greenhouse gas emission allowances. And in the end, I'm going to say that it doesn't fit where I'd like to move it. However, let me briefly say why this is related to what Vice-President Havlíček said when he spoke about promoting renewable resources. [[17,00 hours]] The point is that we are often asked where we would like to finance, which measures, in our opinion, should significantly relieve our citizens, to whom real plagues arise from the current situation and from the fact that the Prime Minister Fiala's government is essentially doing nothing for them. One possible source of this money is the change, which is relatively small, parametric, and it is precisely the amendment of the Act on the terms and conditions of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. This proposal was already here, and I know that the government, the new government, disagreed with it, or wanted to take it back. But I just want to remind you that hundreds of billions of crowns will be added here in the coming years to an account called the Modernization Fund. The modernisation fund has been negotiated by our government within the European Union, and I think it has been successfully, because we have the second highest amount of money out of all ten - or perhaps eleven - countries that can draw the Modernization Fund today. And since the price of the emission allowance is high, of course, future proceeds of the Modernisation Fund are increasing. And when I look at it - and believe me, I speak from my own experience, and I think that quite a lot of experience as someone who has quite a significant involvement in the negotiations on the Modernization Fund - I know that the Modernization Fund, in addition to the fact that there are such high amounts, has not only great qualities, but also some qualities that will complicate our lives - even this government. This is, for example, that we in the Czech Republic cannot just decide how to use it, the fund's money, but that the European Commission and the European Investment Bank also decide how to use it. And let's say the flexibility in this decision-making is quite small, because the investment committee of the European Investment Bank or the Modernisation Fund is meeting, if I'm right, once every six months, and if we want to change something there, the question is whether we have a chance to change it, but at least we'll wait long enough for the money, if we want to use it in any way other than maybe this government wants to, so it will wait quite a while. That is why we want to propose and we want to discuss how to use part of the money - namely, it is only for two years and only part of those allowances that flow to the Modernisation Fund today - in another way and it is precisely to use them for measures aimed at mitigating the social effects of rising energy prices. So it is also an opportunity for this government to get back in the hands of the free decision-making - once again I stress - a very small part of the fund - is smiling at me by my colleague Král - and I want to emphasise again, which I have said several times that this cannot in any way endanger the money, or the effect of the investments that are going on today, because when we started with the Modernisation Fund, we expected that there would be maybe 150, 170 billion by 2030. Today, these estimates are substantially, substantially higher. So I know what all the challenges are going on in the years to come. I know that they are completely covered, and I also know that there would be no problem that part of those allowances that flow to the Modernization Fund today, which the Czech Republic itself has decided to put in this fund, could be used for a purpose that is absolutely essential at the moment in this situation, and that is how I say again to relieve Czech citizens from the huge social impacts that fall on them because of rising energy prices, which, of course, include, in part, the price of the emission allowances from which this fund is implemented. So it has total logic. So, just once again, I would like to ask for a firm inclusion of this point, namely the Parliamentary Press 154, and I would like to ask for its inclusion after the point proposed by Vice-President Havlíček. This was the House press 153 on supported sources of energy and there it was optionally Thursday or Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Patrik Nacher is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u60	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, so I managed to straighten out the microphone - I will try to shorten it as much as possible. I had two points for the program here. My colleague Radek Vondráček has already talked about this one. It's about restricting freedom of speech, he's been talking about it all the time. This is not just about shutting down the servers, it is about some role of position, the competence of the government's media agent and the fight against misinformation, but it is also about a new project launched by the Office of the Government, Defence Czech Republic. cz. I think it deserves to be a special point. I myself will have ambition, if you do not put it in place, colleagues, to provoke the House's truly extraordinary actions, because it has accumulated. I was making that video of myself last night. Two meters, where I spent 15 minutes out of 30, because those things here that concern freedom of speech, freedom of speech, what's confused with fighting misinformation and some kind of onset of censorship or fighting uncomfortable opinions, I think the sack broke with it. And I think where else to discuss this than here. I don't think it's for anybody else to decide what is, what isn't misinformation and any interference, other than the power of the court, not some clerk or inspector. So I'd like to join you in what Radek Vondráček said here, and I'm really gonna ask you to talk about it, because either we're gonna talk about it, or there's gonna be some misinformation going on between people that there's nothing going on here. What I would like to ask you to do is to include the House press 48, it's a change in the Civil Procedure Code. We've talked about this here several times in terms of consumer protection. It's the change I've been negotiating with the expert I've been dealing with here, Karel Haas, in terms of changing and strengthening the financial arbiter. In this case, the point is that when a person, a client, gets into an out-of-court authority, he decides somehow, the institution loses, it gets to a court where it starts from scratch, then the client is sued, not an out-of-court authority, and it happens that the out-of-court authority isn't even informed about this trial. And I think that's a mistake, because it puts the whole idea of using out-of-court authorities, because these people are going there to avoid a trial. They get to that court and, of course, the best way to defend that position is the one who put the statement before or the resolution or the decision before into life, and that is an out-of-court authority. The system that's gonna go to trial today, the client's being sued, and maybe the financial arbiter won't even know about the trial, I think it's completely absurd. So this change of the SEC does nothing but that this out-of-court body can perform there and defend its conclusions. And I say, it's an option, not an obligation. It's a slight change, and your government has given a positive opinion. I'd like to ask you to discuss this. I think it will take fifteen, twenty minutes, we can have expert debates on the Economic Committee or on the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection. I would put it on Friday after the third readings and ask you to support me in this, if you really mean it, that you will also support reasonable views and sensible proposals from the opposition. Especially, once again, when on this proposal is the positive position of your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I wish you a good afternoon. I've taken over the meeting and as I've been through preparation, at this point, if I'm saying this correctly, we've dealt with all the applications for the meeting's agenda. I'm asking if anyone else is applying to the agenda before we proceed to the vote? [[17.10 hours]] As I do not see any further applications, I will call my colleagues from the lobby and proceed to the vote on individual proposals. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. We've had a number of proposals, so I'm going to ask you for a measure of patience as I read them. In case I make the proposal inaccurately, I ask the plaintiff to help me refine this proposal. I think we're all in the room and I can start the vote. The first point was put forward by President Okamura. It's a new point... [[Announcement to the organizational department.]] Yes, let's start with grememia first. Yes, that's right. The first point is to vote on the proposals that came from the Gremium, with a slight adjustment that paragraph 79, it is an electoral point, it will be loaded, but will not be included firmly. It is a proposal for changes in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. Otherwise, the proposals from the Gremium remain as they were read. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a modified proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 2, 162 Members and Members registered, for proposal 161, against no one. The proposal has been approved. We will therefore now vote on the individual proposals submitted. The first is the point put forward by President Okamura. It is a new point called The Government does not solve the problems of Czech citizens. First, I will vote on his inclusion on the agenda. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this new point? Tell him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 3, 163 Members and Members registered, for 73, against 87. This proposal has not been adopted. We will not vote on his solid inclusion. Next, Mr Excellent's proposal - item 19, House Press 201, on the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. It's the first point on Thursday. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Tell him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 4, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 143, against no one. The proposal has been approved. As the next speaker, Mr. Výborný. It's item number 20, House press 202, the so-called e Collection, on Thursday as the second point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 5, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 146, against no one. This proposal has been approved. Next again, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Výborný. Item 18, House press 199 - provision of services. It's like a fourth point on Thursday. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 6, 165 Members and Members registered, for proposal 92, against no one. This proposal has been approved. And from the same petitioner, there's another point. It's item 71, House press 194, from point of the Treaty. It's an amendment to the satellite system. It's like a fifth point on Thursday. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 7, 165 Members and Members registered, for proposal 91, against no one. This proposal has been approved. There is also a proposal from the same petitioner. It is point 66, House press 91 - Eutelsat, on Thursday as the sixth point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this change? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 8, 165 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 91, against no one. The proposal has been approved. From the same... [[Mr. Excellent's application.]] I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. We have probably skipped my read proposal to include point 13 on Thursday as the third item, House press 160, the Low Emission Vehicle Support Act. I'd like to put it to a vote in the order that I've been read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u63	Yes, I'm going to vote on that point with all the other points moving down in order. Thank you. [[Objection that they won't move.]] That means, it's item number 13, House press 160, support for low-emission vehicles, Thursday as the third point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 9, 165 Members of Parliament registered, for 88, against 18. The proposal has been approved. I shall return to the order, and we should take a vote on paragraph 67, House press 92. It is a vote - the point of the Postal Union as the seventh point on Thursday. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 10; 165 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 91, against none. The proposal has been approved. Thank you. It is also item number 70, House press 157. Let me specify what point this is. It's a treaty with Brazil and we're going to put it on Thursday as the eighth point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 11, 165 Members and Members registered, for 91, against no one. This proposal has been approved. [[17.20 hours]] Next, we will vote on paragraph 72, House press 200, it is a treaty with Australia, as the ninth point on Thursday. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 12, 165 Members and Members registered, for proposal 91, against no one. The proposal has been approved. The next item on the vote was presented by President Schillerová, point 65, House press 184, it is the Income Tax Act, on Thursday at 9 a.m., as the first item. [[President Schiller says that this is a value added tax.]] In that case, it's about value added tax. Anyway, paragraph 65, House press 184, okay? Okay. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this item being placed on Thursday at 9 a.m.? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 13; 166 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 75, against 17. This proposal was rejected. There is still an option to include it as the first point on Friday. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting this point on Friday as the first point? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 14, followed by 166 Members, for 73, against 28. This proposal was also rejected. Another proposal from the same petitioner. It is the number of paragraph 61, House press 158, value added tax, on Thursday as the second item of our negotiations. I am opening the vote, and who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 15, 166 Members and Members registered, for proposal 75, against 11. No consent has been given to the proposal. We will vote on the same point to put it on Friday as the second point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 16, 166 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 75, against 14. This proposal was also rejected. We will now vote on the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček on paragraph 59, Parliamentary Press 153, on the supported sources of energy, which he wants to include as a third item on Thursday. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 17, 166 Members of Parliament, for 74, against 43. This proposal has not been adopted. Furthermore, alternatively, the inclusion of this point on Friday as a third point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 18, 166 Members of Parliament, for 75, against 21. Nor has this proposal been agreed. We also have the proposal from Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, and it is about the inclusion of a new point - Implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 29. 3. 2022, it's a strategic document, a refugee wave management plan. Would you like to specify the name of that point, please? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u64	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. The title of the item is the Refugee Wave Management Strategy and I asked for it to be on the agenda of this meeting, and then, if it succeeds, it will be ranked as the first point on Wednesday, or as the second point after third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-000-000.u65	Okay, thank you. I shall therefore first vote on the inclusion of this item in the agenda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting them on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 19, followed by 166 Members, for proposal 159, against no one. The proposal has been approved. [[A weak round of applause.]] And now we will vote on solid inclusion. There are two proposals, the first to put this point as the first point on Wednesday. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of a firm inclusion of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 20, 166 Members are registered, for 73, against 27. This proposal has not been adopted. And, as an alternative, the second point after the third reading block. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of a firm inclusion of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 21; 166 Members and Members are registered, for 74, against 28. This proposal has not been agreed with. There is also a proposal from Mr Jiří Mašek, and the point is: to fulfil the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 29. 3. 2022 on the presentation of the Strategic Plan on the Management of Refugee Wave with a deadline up to 14. 4. 2022. It's a new point, I'll first put the vote on his inclusion. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 22, 166 Members and Members registered, for 75, against 6. The new point has not been agreed with. Another is the proposal from Mrs Margita Balaštíková, entitled The failure of the government to increase entry prices for farmers and food commodities. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 23; 166 Members and Members are registered, for 73, against 17. This proposal has not been agreed with. Next, Mr Radek Vondráček's proposal. It is a new point entitled Information of the Government on the legal situation in the area of freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 24, followed by 166 Members, for proposal 74, against 17. No consent has been given to the proposal. [[17.30 hours]] Next, the point of the petitioner Miroslav Janulík is: Providing funding for health care for Ukrainian refugees. It's a new point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this new item on the agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 25; 166 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 73, against 4. No consent has been given to the proposal. The next item is Mrs Věra Adámková's proposal, item 62, House press 162 - Providing funds for oncological patients to include this point on Wednesday at 11 o'clock as a fixed point. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of a firm inclusion of this point? Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 26, 166 Members and Members signed in, in favour of proposal 76, against 6. No consent has been given to the proposal. There is also Mr Martin Kolovratník's proposal, but I just need to clarify, as to paragraph 79, the electoral point of the Amendment in the institutions, with the fact that the point has been included but has not been firmly placed, is it really a modified proposal from the Gremium? So we have confirmed the accuracy of the procedure that we have already voted in the framework of the Gramial proposal. There is also a point here from Mrs Berenika Peštová, the inclusion of a new point in the Laxic approach of the Government. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 27, 166 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 73, against 68. This proposal was rejected. Furthermore, we have Mr Richard Brabec's proposal on paragraph 60, House press 154, it is a law on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading so that this point is placed as the first point on Friday 29. 4. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 28, followed by 166 Members, for proposal 74, against 9. No consent has been given to the proposal. Furthermore, we have a proposal for an alternative classification on Thursday 28. 4. as the first item in the Rules of Procedure. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 29, followed by 166 Members, for proposal 74, against 7. No consent has been given to the proposal. And then here's the last point, it's a point from the translator Patrik Nacher. It is the number of paragraph 47, House press 47 - the Civil Procedure Code to be included on Friday after the third reading. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 30; 166 Members and Members are registered, for 75, against 8. Nor has this proposal been agreed. And I am asking, for the record, whether we have dealt with all the proposals that have been made on the agenda or whether there is any comment? I don't see any point. In that case, we will now vote on the whole proposal for a 19th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing and amended by approved amendments. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the draft agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 31, with 165 Members registered, for proposal 121, against 19. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. I will now proceed to the agenda. I'll read the apology first. Mr David Šimek apologizes from 18.20 hours to the end of the day for reasons of work. And I'm opening point number
