ParlaMint-CZ_2022-07-07-ps2021-031-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members and members of the Government, I am opening the 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first unsubscribe all of you and ask for a return application with your identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers shall be valid as stated in the previous 30th meeting. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 106 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday 28 June this year. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Tom Philipp as the verifier. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. So I'm just gonna go on, I've called in the MPs and the MPs from the lobby. We will therefore be able to take a vote on the verifiers of this meeting. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of identifying these two Members as verifiers of this meeting? Who's against it? In voting number 1, 103 Members and Members were enrolled, for it was 100, against 0. I am of the opinion that we have designated Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Tom Philipp as verifiers of the 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. As far as possible excuses from this hearing are concerned, they are valid as they were read at the 30th meeting, mostly concerning the entire day of the hearing. And now we will proceed to the establishment of the 31st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm just gonna ask... Thank you for the silence. And I recall that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. Since I do not see applications with priority rights, we will proceed to the vote on the whole proposal for the 31st session of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call again from the lobby. We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. We've already met here in sufficient numbers. Initiating vote on the draft programme. Who's in? Who opposes the proposal for a 31st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies? In voting number 2, 118 Members were enrolled, 86 were opposed to 2, 30 abstained. So I'm saying that the agenda of the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the first item on the show
