ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u1	104. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, and Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended /German press 313/ - Third reading I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Member of Róbert Teleky, take the position of the rapporteur's chair. The amendments are set out in Parliament's 313/2 press, which was delivered on 18 November 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 313/3. Now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly comment on the draft law which amends Law No 1 of the European Parliament. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, and also Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations, Construction Act, as amended. In view of the unprecedented situation in the energy market and the need to address energy security and reduce dependence on fuel imports from the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Industry and Trade is proposing an amendment to the Energy Act, which significantly facilitates the authorisation processes for renewable sources. The draft law is presented in order to promote the optimal development of the use of renewable resources and thus to contribute to the fulfilment of the European Union's commitments in the field of energy and climate while ensuring the energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. The existing energy law is inadequately responding to the potential of the use of renewable resources to ensure the coverage of its own electricity consumption. According to the valid version, entities must become licensed entities, i.e. energy market operators, even though their main motivation is self-production, not energy business. The proposed amendment to the Energy Act increases the limit of the power generation from which the electricity production licence granted by the Energy Regulatory Authority in connection with the definition of business in energy sectors is required, from 10 kilowatt to 50 kilowatt. The amendment to the Energy Act in question also includes an amendment to the Construction Act, which aims to facilitate the decision-making of the construction authorities and to simplify the approval processes on the location of the construction for renewable power plants with installed power up to 50 kilowatts. For the installation of a renewable energy source with a total installed power of up to 50 kilowatt, which is part of the construction, for example photovoltaics on the roof, if the conditions of the safety installation are met, no building permit or notification to the building office will be necessary. At the same time, resources for the production of electricity from renewable sources with installed power of up to 50 kilowatt, with the exception of the construction of a waterworks, if they are located in a built-up area or in a pawnable area, will not require a decision on the location of the building or territorial approval. The proposed modifications to the Energy and Construction Act will make a significant contribution to speeding up the construction of renewable energy production plants and will also bring about a reduction in administrative requirements and efficiency in the processes necessary for the construction and operation of renewable resources at the level of state and public administration. I shall give the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the amendments tabled when voting on these amendments. However, the Ministry of Industry and Trade does not agree with the Member's proposal under letter F of Mr Král concerning the impossibility of changing the way in which the heat supply is supplied, that is, the impossibility of switching to a decentralised heat source in an exceptional market situation without the consent of the holder of the heat energy production or distribution licence, the limitation of the change in the mode of heating as proposed, regardless of the state of the thermal energy supply system and its environmental benefits, and the alternative way of ensuring heating. This proposal is contrary to European Union legislation, which is fully and properly transposed into our legal order by the Energy Management Act, according to which there must be no increase in the energy performance of buildings when changing the way of heating. As problematic, the MPO also perceives that the restriction of disconnecting would also apply to cases where the customer, the heat energy user, objectively cannot continue to use the thermal energy supply system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u3	Thank you. I am opening up a debate in which I first have an application with priority rights. Before the Vice-President comes, I'm gonna load an apology. Pivoňka Vaňková apologizes to Pavel from 17.30 for work reasons. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, in principle, we must start by saying that, of course, we will support this law. There may still be some debate on the amendments, but they are heading in the right direction, there is no doubt about it. But here I have to speak with something a little different, which, of course, concerns the approval of this law. As we all no doubt know, there has been a few months delay in approving this law, and it's all caught up at the last minute, but we could take that with some perspective. First of all, when we passed the law, we were sometimes late, and it's just a matter of explaining it and maybe apologizing. We also did not criticize it in a fundamental way. You may recall when this was discussed here in October, all the more so if Mr Chalupa's chairman, for example, responded that even if it had not been done by January 1st and it was a few days later that it was not an earthquake and that it could be managed. Of course, those involved, whether they are different SVJs or those who wanted to install it, were critical of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Minister for doing so at the last minute and that it might not be possible. That could have sealed it off. It was simple enough, and that's what we were doing - we'd apologize and say, "Yes, we're going to try to make it to that 1. One, and maybe it would even work. [[10.40 hours]] However, the Minister's reaction has taken its breath away from those who work with him and members of the five-wheeler. What was the Minister's public statement: "The increase in the limits for the installation of photovoltaics without a license up to 50 kilowatt will help Czech citizens, which is why we wanted the House to approve it in a shortened procedure at first reading. The opposition rejected it and probably cost citizens the chance to produce more electricity from the beginning of next year." Mr. Secretary, that's for Chocholoušek, and please, do something about it already. I'm not asking the Prime Minister anymore, but I'm asking that Minister Síkela be assured in some way, because this is where all the fun ends. [[A round of applause and laughter from members of the ANO movement.]] Are you kidding me? Are you serious? So let's recap. This has been handled by the government for six months. The Ministry of Industry and Trade in May came up with this, quite rightly, that it will be in the novel about gas tanks. It fell out. Yes, there were some mistakes, I could understand all that. Promise, Minister, you made it clear that it would be done by the holidays, until the holidays! Holidays in the Czech Republic start on 1 July and end on 31 August. Maybe as you're traveling around the world, you'll always get it mixed up, you've got it shifted, but in any case, you sent it to the House in a way that came September 29th. That's three months from the start of the holiday, three months. At first reading, it was logically read 14. 10. There is one more thing to be said. You knew very well that your colleagues and, of course, the opposition MEPs sometimes, in the middle of September, totally threw it off your table. That was the meeting of the Economic Committee, I believe it was in Dukovany. It was clearly said that there were a lot of mistakes, that it wasn't okay. You knew it wasn't like that, or you knew it was wrong. Yes, you wanted the 14. 10th to approve in the '90s, so all at once in that one day. It was perfectly logical for President Schillerová to speak here, who said that there are a number of mistakes and uncertainties, and it must go to the committee, including after your Members have said so. But, of course, we've come to terms with the fact that it's been reduced to seven days. Acquiescence itself! Now what was played for. Of course it went to the Economic Committee. And you know what happened? I'm sure you know. Six amendments, one comprehensive amendment, five of which were made by members of the five koalice. I suspect that it was four times from the ODS - I have it marked here - once for STAN and once it was Mrs Dostálová's amendment. So it is quite obvious that even your colleagues did not consider it a properly written law, and a number of perfectly correct and logical changes were made there. So, Minister, please, the next time you communicate with your PR specialists in STAN again, realize that these PR specialists are putting you on the verge of an option. And if you argue, then at least stick to the basic parameters, such that you've taken advantage of it, not that we've stalled for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u5	Thank you. Mr Adamec is duly enrolled in the debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I was thinking today after the morning exercise, how do I start telling you what we're gonna approve here today? I gotta say, it's been a while since the rehearsal, so I've been breathing it out a little bit. I think it was necessary to explain it this way. But besides having to make a suggestion from this place, I'd like to hear some public guarantees, too. Then I wanted to say that - perhaps I would add to Mr Havlíček, in a good way - it is rather an extension of the scope of the bill rather than a correction. That's what I was gonna say, because I've been putting in those amendments about three or four, and now I don't know exactly. We simply took advantage of the time when it came to the committee to take the next steps that we consider necessary. I think that these are far from all the steps that our energy needs in the near future. Because the subject is very sensitive, it also reflects the mood in society. Let's face it, that's the way it is. We simply need to prepare the bills so that they are applicable in practice, so that they do not cause any problems, so that we do not go back to the beginning of our millennium, when photovoltaics did not make us happy, because there has been uncontrollable growth and price growth. We can argue today whether it was intent or inexperience, and we want to avoid these steps. I have to say, the original proposal actually assumed that the power was rising to those 50 kilowatts, that you wouldn't need a zoning decision or a building permit. We took advantage of the fact that we actually gave other things. I have tabled amendments concerning the public interest in resources between 1 megawatt hour and 100 megawatt hour. Otherwise, I warn you, I'm not talking about photovoltaics, I'm talking about power sources. That's a big difference, and somebody's confusing it. Of course, you probably got a letter from the Vice-President of the Agrarian Chamber saying that we want to build photovoltaics in the fields. So I want to calm everyone down that it's not true that there's a whole series of insurance policies. On the other hand, what happened here is that we are very far behind Europe, that we need to add in renewables, and we have to build renewables somewhere. That's reality, we have to deal with that in some way. Of course, if we say this, we can't say the other word: but we'd like to make decisions about this - mayor or other bodies - about this, about this, because if the official noticed it again, we're not going to build anything at all. I don't think that's the point. I would like to say that there was also a mix-up of what public interest and community-friendly construction is. These are fundamentally different concepts. We talked about this on the Economic Committee, and public interest is actually coming from Europe. It's hard to define, it's not an easy thing to do. I think the practice will still show whether it's meant well or wrong. However, we agreed on the Economic Committee. We have agreed to support the amendments in addition to the amendments made by our fellow Member, Bureš. That's what it was like to say. We also supported the last amendment by Mr Václav Král, because the idea is correct. I confess that I wanted to raise a debate on this subject so that by decentralising ourselves, we would not destroy central sources in the heating industry. It's a field that's very complicated, there's also a lot of lobbyism, a lot of interests. On the other hand, it must be said that we cannot allow people to disconnect from the central system just because, for example, another source of energy is cheaper for them at some point. Who you worked in the villages, you know that it happened to us from time to time, that maybe they left czt and made a small gas boiler room. They're banging on the head today. Even then, it wasn't as convenient as those who had promised to install the devices of a different type. So it is ideally correct, but unfortunately I have to say that in terms of Czech and European law it is incompatible because they do not know it that way. Even our legal order doesn't know it that way. I think that we have partly adjusted my amendment to the impossibility of doing so simply by not actually increasing or reducing the thermal efficiency in the house when you replace the source, which I think is the right procedure, the right approach. That's what we did, and that's what we voted for. But in general, even in the crisis framework, as suggested by Václav Král, we simply will not put this into practice. I would, of course, ask the Minister here to promise us that this problem will be addressed by OZ II, because the path exists through the so-called efficient heat system. I think we need to work this out, because what I suggested is functional, but it may not be enough. Otherwise, by the way, central systems have a problem that they actually act like community energy. That means the more users are raised, the cheaper the source is. If the opposite happens, what happens to us? That we're actually going to drive the heat plants into economic trouble and maybe even crash, which I don't think we want at the moment. There is also a problem with the transformation of heating support. There's no notification, there's just a lot of problems that need to be solved. [[10.50 hours]] So this is one problem that could be said that the Economic Committee has put an inch on it, but we will not support it in the majority, because it cannot be implemented in our Czech legal order. And then there was a problem when we talked about the public interests, so Amendment C2 talks about the so-called strongly prevailing interest, the public interest. I don't think we can resist this coming up with European legislation anytime soon, but, despite that, because we have made an agreement, I would suggest to the grand House here if it wasn't kind enough to vote to withdraw the amendment under letter C2, which addresses this. I'm begging you to do this. I'm going to want to hear from the Minister that we're going to solve this problem with a law that we're working on calling OZ II, as well as disconnecting it from the heat systems. So I think we finally made a deal, I think we used that time well. And I wish that... and I was a little elevated by the fact that - because I am the author of an amendment that solves those resources in the public interest - that I would support something like the destruction of an agricultural soil fund. No, that's a scary case of how not to do it. There's a lot of ways to stop it, and there's a big problem that some operators or suppliers of OZ just compete with each other and they feel like if there's a photovoltaic there, they can't grow corn for biogas, but it doesn't really work like that, it really doesn't. So I'd like to ask... Moreover, all the comments that came in, so I expected the authors of these comments to come to the Economic Committee. By the way, the amendment was there from the first reading, it was there, it was settled by the ministries, there and they could come to discuss. I wouldn't put anybody out of his discussion at that point, because the more we discuss it, the better for our public. So I'm taking those letters like the Agrarian Chamber for a little bit of double-crossing and unfair behavior, because, first of all, it's not true, and if you look at the tone that he wanted to throw up on my amendments -- well, I'd say I want to throw up on the form of that letter. Seriously, that's not the way to do it! He can't. And here I am calling on all those who are interested in energy when they have a problem, you will have an open law on energy, let them come to the discussion of the economic committee, it is a public matter, let them comment, their proposals. Of course, I'm not saying we're gonna accept them, I can't, but at least we'll hear the opinions of those people from practice. So I'd like us to realize that. And let's believe it and believe me that I would never do something like this that happened here at the beginning of our millennium, when an uncontrollable boom of photovoltaics in the fields was created here, and it caused problems like solar barons. Ladies and gentlemen, I have expressed two wishes here: publicly promising those two points, I would very much like the Minister to answer that question, and otherwise I would like to ask you to remove the amendment under C2 from today's vote. And otherwise for everyone: apart from the amendment - unfortunately - Václav Král, they voted in accordance with the resolution of the Economic Committee. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I just want to make it clear that we will be on the vote on Amendment C2 in the final voting procedure. As a first point, we would have dealt with the withdrawal. Okay, thank you. Your speech raised three factual points, so I will ask Mr Kučera. Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. I appreciate that the speech by my previous speaker, Chairman of the Adamec Economic Committee, the topic - or I would like to touch on the topic of agricultural land, because it is, of course, very sensitive, especially after the experience of the past years, when photovoltaics have actually ended often in places where they should not have been, that is, perhaps on the agricultural land of the highest bonita, and if there is any doubt that this amendment, in some extensive explanation, could mean this enlargement, it is good that it will be withdrawn and dealt with in another amendment to renewable resources. However, I would like to say that the topic of placing photovoltaic power plants, or renewables, on agricultural land, agricultural buildings, is, of course, a big topic. It is a topic that is being addressed throughout Europe. The topic of agrivoltaic in our Republic is not yet as developed as it should be. I think that this is a topic that should be taken not only by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture, but also by the House Committees, of course. I would like to report that, as an agricultural committee, we will be actively dealing with this in the first half of next year. I appreciate the fact that the chairman of the Economic Committee is also a member of the Agricultural Committee. As Chairman of the Agricultural Committee, I am once again a member of the Economic Committee, so it is both beautifully and closely linked, and I believe that I would also like to ask the Minister of Industry and Trade here to devote himself very seriously to Agrivoltaic thematics in order to be clearly defined and clearly beyond the time when it will be launched. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u9	Thank you, and another point of fact is made by Mr Bernard. Mr. Ambassador, the space is yours and your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wanted to comment on Mr Havlíček's opinion, through you, Madam President, I did not understand his input. If he had come and said: This country has failed completely in the field of renewable energy sources from 2013 to the present, the decline in OZ relative to the energy mix is the fatal failure of previous governments. And now this speaker is reprimanding the minister, who is finally making amends on this matter. I don't understand it at all, and please, four numbers: in 2013 the share of solar energy in our energy mix is 1.96 %, in 2021 the share is 1.65 %. If we look at OZ as a whole, in 2013, it was 5,68 percent and in 2021 it was 5,56 percent. It's called fatal failure. Minister, thank you for making amends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u11	Thank you, and with another point of fact, Mr Kott is prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I think I will take the floor of the President of the Committee on Agriculture, because I, too, see the withdrawal of point C2 as the right solution. I thank both the Minister and the Chairman of the Economic Committee for this, and I believe that this will bring calming down not only among the agricultural public, which I do not know whether it was right or wrong to worry about the possible problem that arises there, but that in the final solution, the individual mayors who have found that, given that they could grow in the vicinity of the municipalities and cities, they did not find it entirely accurate. So thank you for the Agrarian Chamber, I don't think the letter was supposed to be provocative, but there was some concern, and, as the chairman of the agricultural committee said, our priority should be that we put the panels on agricultural buildings, the projects from agricultural holdings and processors are being processed for this, and I think this should be the way that should be established in the Czech Republic. So what I want to say for us is that we are happy for this and that we will definitely support the amendment, as it is now modified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u13	Thank you, and with another factual remark, Minister Jurečka is prepared. Before the Minister arrives at the counter, I will make apologies: Mr. Bělor Roman apologizes... sorry, Mr. Bělor Roman takes his apology back from 10:30 to 12:30 and from 14:30 to 17:00. Minister, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u14	Thank you very much. Since the topic of agrivoltaic is very strongly resonated here, let me make a few comments on the subject. I called a meeting of my colleagues from the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture three weeks ago, because this issue is still needed to be dealt with quite clearly in the law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund. Here we have agreed on the principles of how to set this up. It will be treated, the amendment will be finalized during January. We're counting on him to go to the final legislative round, with the fact that no one wants to let new solar fields develop here. I don't think anybody's that crazy to repeat the story of 2009-2010. We want to allow, under reasonable conditions, where it is, for example, a combination of use in growing both permanent cultures, where we have some supporting structures, where we grow fruit and vegetables, where it may also be part of the shielding, and where possible on some selected parts of the areas under clearly defined conditions, in some limited parts of the land, this will allow the agrivoltaics to be reasonably able to be there, but not as part of some entire soil block, which will cover the agricultural productive area on the bonit soils. No way. I want to calm the concerns of both the agricultural public and the reaction from the Agrarian Chamber and so on: there is no repetition of the story of 2009-2010, from which I think we are all taught. Yes, we will primarily use roofs, facades of residential buildings, industrial buildings, and in some cases it may be water areas or parts of agricultural land or agricultural structures for permanent crops, but under clearly defined reasonable conditions and rules.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u15	Thank you for keeping time. And since there is no one else to comment on the facts, we can continue the general debate. A Member of the Král is signed up for this. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. And before you get to the microphone, I'll make an apology: Mr. Bělor Roman from 10.30 to 12.30 for work reasons. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u16	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. In the introduction, before I can get to what I wanted to say today, I have to comment on what was said here a moment ago about the share of renewable resources in the mix, say, fuels or sources for electricity production in the Czech Republic. For my colleague Bernard, in the mouth of Madam President: the figures that have been said here are true. Of course, I am in favour of the development of renewable resources in the context of progress, but when we say A, we have to say B. When we look at the price of electricity in 2018, if I'm not mistaken, it was a 30 euro circus per megawatt hour, and in 2022 it's a 400 euro circus per megawatt hour. So try to put it in the equation, see if it's also a bit of a credit to the development of renewables. And I am no longer talking about the distribution costs that we see in Germany, for example, how the development of renewable resources has dramatically increased the cost of distribution, support services and so on. So if we're talking about an OZ ratio, please, let's say B, let's say how much it costs. And we will certainly explain that to all citizens, and they will gladly pay the high price of electricity. We can ask that question, for example, about the great industry. Even a large industry will certainly be happy to pay the price of electricity. Anyway, about why I dare to get off here tonight. I apologise to the members of the Economic Committee because the arguments which have already been made at the meeting of the Economic Committee on 24 November will largely be repeated. There has already been a relatively large number here today at the address of my Amendment 1531, however, I will allow myself to comment briefly on it once more. I want to say that this amendment to the Energy Act has my support. You know, I have been criticizing here for a long time that the energy law, which is the key legislative standard for energy, and, after all, the whole economy, the salami method, is being cut here and, in total, in about five amendments this year, or we're going to see how the Ministry of Industry and Trade is going to be doing, we're adjusting this standard in some way. However, let me start here by saying that the way the energy system - if I talk about energy only, but it applies in general, the system of legislation and various regulations, subsidies and so on - is already so complex that individual intentions, processes, projects are beginning to cannibalize, starting to get into contradictions and so on. By introducing price ceilings on electricity and gas, we have, in a way, also put on the price of heat that is produced from decentral sources. This is, for example, a gas boiler room, a home gas boiler room or a so-called block boiler room, a heat pump, etc. This leads to further discrimination - I do not like it at all, but I will use the familiar word - central systems of central heat supply, or if you want heat supply systems that are discriminated against by this because the fuel prices of these central sources, if you want, are not simply being put down. And I'm sure you can argue that, for example, the prices of natural gas have also been ceilinged for heat plants. That is true, but especially large heat plants use fuel mix, in other words, not only gas, there are other fuels, such as coal, chips that are logical substitutes for natural gas. This means that we see today a dramatic increase in the price of these fuels, especially black coal, but we see it also in brown and also in chips. These fuels are significantly discriminated against by the fact that the large sources, the heat plants, do not have a ceiling on these fuels. And those that burn grounded natural gas are still being ceilinged by the fact that they have to pay emission allowances for burning fossil fuels, and the decentralised resources don't have to pay those allowances. I don't want to delay here, I think that the issue of emission allowances is already relatively well known to all of you. I take the liberty of amending the amendment in the context of an exceptional market situation, that is the new term that we have introduced into the Energy Act, and in a situation where we introduce price ceilings, which has become the regulation of the government, electricity and gas, temporarily during this situation to allow a change in the way of heating in cities and municipalities where the system of supply is only warm with the consent of, say, the licence holder, or if you want the system operator or if you want the heating plant. I don't see anything insidious, nothing fatal. It is indeed a kind of desperate effort in a situation where individual intentions are just beginning to cannibalize, I would almost like to say that there can be an inefficient spending of public funds, because most of the heat sources, both central and decentral, are - unfortunately, or thankfully, I will leave that to you - built with various subsidies, so it is not appropriate in this situation to allow those supply systems to fall apart with heat. Because they have great decarbonization potential, and that's when we started talking about the development of renewables, so believe it or not, the heating really has that potential. For example, the fact that many systems are already burning wood chips, biomass, is linked, for example, to municipal waste incinerators, to ZEVO waste energy recovery facilities, there is potential for them to be connected to nuclear heat. For example, we in České Budějovice will reduce coal consumption by a third in Temelín and other projects will reach a situation in 2028 where we will not need more or less any fossil fuels and no coal to operate our system of heat supply in the regional capital of South Bohemia. On this perhaps stupid example, I took the liberty of demonstrating that the real heat plants have this decarbonization potential. And please note that the state energy concept is also counting on this potential. So I think it would be a real shame, as my honored previous speaker Ivan Adamec put it here, in the context that over the next few years - and I really think it will be a few years, that it will not be just a few months when the ceilings on the price of electricity and gas will be here with us - to allow the uncontrolled breakdown of these systems by heat supply. [[11.10 hours]] It was said from the Minister's mouth that my amendment was incompatible with European legislation. We are going back, turning around a little bit, because we have already had this debate on the Economic Committee and even then at the negotiations that followed the negotiations of the Economic Committee. I think that it was quite obvious that, with the temporary crisis framework and the current exceptional market situation, European legislation simply did not count on it, so by not being compatible with something that does not exist or does not exist, I think that we are actually going back to the beginning of the debate, and I thought that after the negotiations of the Economic Committee, which recommends this amendment to the House for approval, we have come one step further. And then the Minister had another argument here, if I understood it correctly: if we had approved this amendment and the whole amendment, as amended by the amendment, that it would not be possible to disconnect - you said, Minister, by the mouth of Madam President - whoever objectively cannot continue to use district heating. Well, in this situation, I can't imagine those subjects in that place simply not agreeing that there will be no or change in the way of heating. I find this argument odd. What I regret is that these arguments are repeated here, and it was evident at the meeting of the Economic Committee that the Ministry of Industry and Trade had not dealt with my amendment at all, that it had completely misunderstood it. And if you're interested, you can read the arguments on the Economic Committee. I'm just sorry we're really spinning in circles. So, in order not to delay for a long time, I would ask you to support this amendment in the spirit of the Economic Committee's recommendation of 24 November this year. And if it were really on the wording that I, together with the team of lawyers, created in some desperate attempt to save the heat supply system, something as profoundly fatal as I said, today on the table - unfortunately, or thank God, I will leave it to you - another three amendments to the energy law, so I think the Ministry of Industry and Trade will have a few chances of adjusting these destructive and fatal wordings of mine. So thank you in advance for your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech brought up a point of fact, so please, Mrs Oulehlová. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u18	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I'm from the Karlovy Vary Region, Sokolov. The moment central heating collapses, we all end because our region is the poorest. Indeed, even according to the European Committee of the Regions, we are the fastest poorer region in the European Union. And I would just like to take the number: CZK 803 pay our citizens for gigajoules of heat from central heating, heat pump CZK 1,100. Of course, those who disconnect us have business in it, they often promise these people something that's not possible at all. And I'm begging you very much to keep the central heating going, whether it's possible or not, as we've heard here... Europe also said to us: Cancel coal, go to gas. Fortunately, we didn't make it because if we did, people in our region are really at the worst level in the Czech Republic. So once again, please, let's keep the central heating going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u19	Thank you for keeping the time, Madame. And since I don't have anyone registered for the general debate in writing anymore, I can see the application from the point of view. Mrs Peštová, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So I became a member of the Economic Committee, and I am proud of it, because I think that the discussions were very interesting there and I, too, have contributed a lot to these discussions. Let us recap a little bit, as voted on the Economic Committee, specifically on this amendment, which is supposed to be withdrawn on the basis - it is said to be polite - of a washed head or something. In any case, this amendment to the Economic Committee has been adopted almost unanimously and I feel that only two have abstained, and the others have been in favour of this amendment. Of course, in the discussion that took place there were arguments of the type where the directive was adopted to make us realize, and I specifically said that in order to realise that when the directive was adopted, it was an ideal situation. Perfect condition! [[Noise in the hall.]] Please... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u21	Yes. I beg you to keep the room down so the lady can have some room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u22	Thank you very much. So it was an ideal state, there was no economic crisis, there was no energy crisis, there was just an ideal state. The transposition is converted into Czech legislation or translated for about two years, there is always a two-year deadline for the transposition to take place, so the transposition took place in an ideal state. And we have gotten but not into the ideal state, currently is not the ideal state. So what was first loaded there, the amendment that was loaded by Mr Král, I had a problem with that, because it clearly said that it must not be strictly forbidden to disconnect from the system, which is contrary, which we had a problem with. [[must not be]] But Mr Král has learned his lesson and has tabled a revised amendment, which means that this is where he accentuates the state of emergency, which is currently - here we are constantly dealing with the emergency - so the amendment is well read. This means that the amendment says what has been said here by Mr Král, and it accentuates that this only applies at a time when there is an emergency, that is, this energy crisis, and that is why we have no problem with it, which is why we have all raised our hand for it. The Ministry of Industry argued that this was contrary to the directive, but it is not contrary to the directive. They are concerned that the European Commission will start infringement with them. But that can happen, that's no problem. When I was the Deputy Minister, I was threatened with this several times, and we always had enough time to make a proper statement. This means that if we adopt this in our legislation and there is a problem or there is a situation that the European Commission would start with us on some kind of infringement, we have enough time to make an argument about why we have adopted this legislation. Maybe we'd argue that without any problems, and the European Commission would take our arguments and it would be healed or not. Then, of course, a reasoned position would follow, and we would have to heal in our legal order. But we didn't give it a chance. We are already pulling down our pants, even though the ford is far away, and we say: We ask that this amendment be withdrawn. I'm a member of the opposition, yeah, and I'm kicking for members of the ruling coalition. It's ridiculous, isn't it? It's ridiculous, but the amendment is good. He's good! What are you afraid of? I have President Adamec here, through Madam President, and I remember very well when I presented the laws in the Economic Committee, as the former opposition, today's coalition, screamed at me and said: You are not ambitious enough! What are you afraid of? Let's do it! Well, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, don't worry about it! Maybe we'll end up with infringement, and then it'll be argumented or not. Even if we get into that reasoned position, we can heal it, 'cause you're good at 90, right? I mean, you guys do this all the time. Then what are you afraid of? [[In an elevated voice.]] We've got it. We've got it healed one by one, just in case the situation comes up. We passed the law here yesterday! I mean, it was in a minute. There was some debate, but it was healed. So come on, what are you afraid of? [[11.20 hours]] Really, I beg you to listen to this tape or read it, the discussion was nutritious on the Economic Committee, and in the finals your Members voted for it, yours, who are now saying that they are afraid. Let's do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u23	děkovat you, Madame, and with a factual remark, Mr Adamec is reporting. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u24	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, we are in the winter months, so now no one will be disconnected, so I said, let's try to heal it another way, and I asked the Minister here to publicly make a promise that we would do it another way. Otherwise, my colleague, my honored colleague Veronika... Peštová, I'm sorry, I'd like to say that I'm not afraid. I'm only afraid of human stupidity. It's really dangerous. But otherwise, I'm not afraid of anything or anyone. So it's just to say it here. But I really felt the same way, the amendment, the support to really unleash the debate, because the problem would occur in the spring months. Let's face it, it's just gonna happen. And right here maybe how many times does human stupidity play a role, because I experienced it historically when the villages were disconnected from the retenant just because the gas guys offered them a cheaper gas boiler room, and they forgot to tell them that every year they're going to do revisions, that they're going to do service, and that it's going to cost more than when they were connected to a hot water that didn't have any maintenance, nothing, they just had that service 100%, so-called full service. So I just wanted to point it out, and otherwise I am glad that Mrs Berenika Peštová is proud to be a member of the Economic Committee. Bereniko, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u25	Thank you, and with another point of fact, Mrs Peštová is registered. Madam, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u26	No, I am glad to hear what the President, President Adamec, has said here, through Madam President. I'd like to hear from the Minister. You haven't been able to talk him out of it, maybe we'll talk him out of it now, and he'll tell us not promises on the microphone here, but since the economic committee, as we've all said there beautifully, we've agreed to the amendment that's happened since then, and if the material he was supposed to travel to the government has arrived at the government. I'll ask the Minister if he'd be so kind as to recapitulate me from that economic committee that everything has happened to this day. And if there's no progress, please, let's go ahead and approve the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u27	Thank you for keeping time and others with the de facto remark of Mr Kubíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, central heating is a phenomenon of the Czech Republic, we must realise that. There is no country in the world that has this system so widespread. We're supplying 4.5 million people today, and we've been here trying to unplug and block boiler rooms. You can't insult a promise, everyone promised lower prices, today everyone wants to join the central heating system. And we have this chain reaction phenomenon. If I walk and tell you the way a heat pump is the best thing in the whole world, and I give you the old data, it'll work for me. If I give you new data and I make a new approximation, it won't work. If the price of heat in the Republic is around 700 crowns, in gas somewhere at the level of 1,400, 1 500 crowns. The externalities you've registered, they're being dealt with, I wouldn't work in any way. But what happens when these people start disconnecting? You'll have fixed costs, people will be gone, and the heat plants will count on them. The argument that cogeneration is self-savable and does not need any support will not stand. Of course, there are other instruments, it might not be directly by shutting down this emergency situation, but it would have to be some kind of support. Maybe the minister will come out, tell us how he'll handle the support, and we'll all be happy. I gave this argument to the mayors, and when the mayors who run the heat, the central ones, and so on, when they think deeply about it, I have to say that they're all right with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u29	Thank you for keeping time and there are three more factual points. First, please Mr Král, Mrs Peštová and then Mr Munzar will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u30	It's just to make sure there's no mistake. Nobody here wants to forbid anything, for God's sake. The separation takes place in a situation where, say, the alternative method, the decentral method is technically feasible, environmentally more advantageous and economically advantageous. And that's what we're playing now is that there are cities where today, thanks to the fact that central resources are discriminated against in different ways as opposed to decentralized, so the price of heat gets above the magical limit, below which temporarily due to the ceiling price of electricity and gas alternative solutions, decentral solutions are cheaper. So we don't want to forbid anything here, but in this extraordinary market situation, we believe that there must be an agreement at a place where someone wants to change the way heating works, with the system operator. And I didn't say one thing here, and there's a nice way to explain it - it doesn't seem to have anything to do with the photovoltaics, but it's not true, it's only apparent because in a situation where, let's say, the surpluses from the sun are stored into the accumulation of heat, so at that point the system operator should at least know, because the efficiency of its system is going to get worse, given that the sources that will, for example, produce heat from the sun begin to detach from it. And that's not a big deal, surely in that place people, in those towns and villages, can agree to give their consent in these cases. And I think that if the Ministry of Industry and Trade wanted to do so, it could write a very elegant methodical instruction about where it would put these things into state and explain. Unfortunately, we live in a time when the running of the state is governed by methodological guidelines, not by laws, so I think in this case it may not be different. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u31	With another point of fact, Mrs Peštová is prepared. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'll come back one more time. Minister, I beg you, I beg you to speak before the final word, because you will then take the final word and we can no longer respond. So if you can really, say it now on the microphone here, recapitulate what you've done since the last economic committee, if the material that was supposed to go to the government didn't deliberately go to the government, or go to the government, just to assure us what everything was done for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u33	Thank you, and with another factual remark, Mr Munzar. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I will respond here to a speech by Mrs Peštová, because I also voted in favour of the amendment on the Economic Committee, and I have said precisely to the Economic Committee this sentence, which I will repeat, that even if, in the finals at the end, precisely this wording, which Mr Peštová has submitted, will not pass, that the vote on the Economic Committee is very serious for the Ministry to address this matter very systematically, and that is why - and I understand the efforts of my colleague Král, that he fears one thing - the more people gradually begin to disconnect from the central supply of heat, the fixed costs that these systems have will be calculated for fewer households. This will lead to increased heat from central supply, which will lead to further disconnecting, and we can really get to the destruction of these systems. [[Prices?]] So I would also like to ask the Minister before the final vote - and I join the call of my colleague Adamec - that the Minister here tells us that the Ministry will deal with this and there is an opportunity for this in OZ II. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u35	Thank you for keeping time. I don't have any more factual comment, so I ask again if anyone is reporting to the general debate? [[Voice off the microphone.]] For a general debate? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, while I am aware that I will probably prolong today's debate and call on a whole series of comments and comments, because I have been repeatedly called upon to do so, I will try to respond to the challenges and questions in the order that they came. So first I will begin with Vice-President Havlíček, of course through Madam President, who spoke of Professor Chocholoušek, probably wanted to question my mental health and also asked if I was making fun of someone. I want to make sure you don't. I'll get to it. It was said that I submitted a proposal three months later than I originally promised. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a few things. The difference between how much electricity we produce from renewable sources, which we can produce ourselves and which is produced by the surrounding countries of the European Union, is dramatic. We produce six times less electricity from the sun and the wind than the average of the European Union, even ten times less than it is in Germany, and there are even countries like Poland or even Hungary before us, which we have been modeled so many times, although some political leaders refuse to report to this now. So I want to assure Vice-President Havlíček that I am not making fun of him anymore, either through the President, because it is no longer necessary. He can do it on his own. So that's the point. With regard to the amendments, the amendment C2 introducing a new concept into Czech legislation, so we finally decided that we wanted to go back to it, namely because the concept of "a prevailing public interest" is a concept that passes into our law from the law of the European Union. At this point, there is a precedent for what is considered to be the prevailing public interest, and I would like to avoid the problem that I am aware of from one neighbouring country, when the surrounding countries implemented elements of European law even before they have been fine-tuned at European level, and now they have to change it quickly because it has caused some problems. But I firmly believe that we may be able to return to this subject in the next amendment. When it comes to Mr Král's amendment and the question of how we are facing central heating, I would like to draw attention to one thing. We are very well aware of the importance of heating in the Czech Republic and it is not that we want to do anything against the promotion of heating. It's the other way around. Already two years ago, under the previous leadership of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the notification of transformational heat support was launched at the European Commission, which has not been achieved until today. We can talk about whether it was because the original proposal was no longer written as needed, we can talk about whether it was because the pressure on the Commission, which we had developed and which was large, was insufficient. We were even involved in this in cooperation with the Heating Union and external international lawyers. The fact is that we have not received the approval of this notification support to date. Following discussions with the Association of Heat Technology and ČEZ, which is also part of the system, but is no longer a member of the Teplářská sdružení - sorry, I am wrong - we agreed to use changes in the temporary crisis framework in the near future, and I assume by the end of the year that I will present to the Government a proposal for the use of the temporary crisis framework for a special transitional call to transform the promotion of heating, which should ensure that the heating industry receives adequate support and that it can adapt to the new conditions, which are based on the energy changes that the European Union has already agreed on in the past, but also, of course, the changes that occurred after Russia's aggression against Ukraine. So, by the end of the year, I will put forward a proposal on how to use the temporary crisis framework to transform heating support, and this procedure is consulted and agreed with the most important participants in the entire heating system. As far as Mr Král's amendment is concerned, you have said what you feel sorry for everything. I am also terribly sorry about a lot of things, but I am most sorry that things that are either inaccurate or even false have been said in your speech. The fact that we replace the word "prohibit" with the necessary consent does not legally change the fact that in such a case the consent is not granted by a ban. And I said, very gently I said that your amendment does not harmonise, or I no longer know what word I used, entirely with Union law. He is in direct conflict with Union law in this area, because when it comes to disconnecting from the so-called ineffective system - and please nicely for those who are not so loaded into the energy system, an ineffective system means, effective from renewable sources and ineffective from others - you simply cannot prohibit such disconnect by the way it was presented. We have prepared another proposal, which has already been agreed, and I firmly believe that the procedure that we are proposing will not, on the one hand, be incompatible with European law and, on the other hand, prevent disconnecting, as is the case under the law, where disconnecting, for example, would lead to a reduction in energy efficiency, that is, an increase in energy consumption. As far as the temperature system is concerned, yes, we are one of the countries that has a very significant share of district heating, but we are not alone to realise that. For example, Denmark may be even more dependent when it comes to central district heating, and some other Scandinavian countries are approaching us in this. So she and the discussions at European Union level with countries that are renewable resources, and Denmark belongs to these countries, are very interesting because some of our arguments - they say, but we know it, we have it the same way, and yet we can deal with it in a different way and let's say more renewable than you want it to be - that is, the debate is not completely simple, but I am really just trying to catch up on what we have slept through in a form that will not lead to market fluctuations and which will, in fact, in small resources, make it possible to develop as quickly as possible through self-production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u37	Thank you, Minister. Your speech raised one factual remark by Mrs Peštová. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u38	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I appreciate you getting off and not keeping it for your closing argument. But I can't agree with you. The amendment, it was the original, it was the first. What he mentioned here, the ban, yes, he was there, and we all had a problem with that, because he was contrary to the directive, as you say correctly. But the second amendment doesn't say anything about a ban. He's talking about an extraordinary time, which means he's talking about an extraordinary situation that comes from the point of view of energy, and there's also described the situation. So it's not about being banned, it's just taken that the directive, when it was formed two years ago or three years ago, before it transcended into the Czech order, was formed in a completely different regime. It was an ideal condition, just an ideal condition. It's not ideal today. That is why, after the amendment was corrected, we raised our hand, because the debate was really big there. Your Deputy Secretary Neděla was there, who also took part in this discussion, and the debate was really big. It wasn't about raising our hand. We just really talked about it and discussed it as a directive, when it was transposed, what happens if it were adopted in this form or if the amendment were adopted in this form. I even said there'd be infringement, reasoned position, and other things, I've already said that. But I say what to be afraid of... What's to be afraid of? We are worried that the European Commission will start infringement with us after... Before it goes through the Senate, of course, and before it's signed by the president, he's gonna start an infringement with us, which we can heal here in the '90s we already know, right? No problem, we're done in one day. There's nothing to deal with. So I don't know what you're afraid of. You're in no danger. We're gonna test if there's a way or if there's no way. [[President: Time, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u39	Thank you. And another, with a factual remark, is reported by Mr. Král. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u40	Thank you. I also want to thank the Minister for his public statement, and to be fair, I also want to thank for the debate, I will say the intensive debate that we have had after the Economic Committee with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. However, on this point Dánsko, Minister, through Madam President. Yes, Denmark is one of our models in the heating industry and, where appropriate, the supply of long-distance cooling. However, there is a need to learn in a good way, but also in a bad way. And for example, if I speak for myself, maybe I don't want to burn biomass here from the Amazon so that on one side of the planet, we can spread rainforests and then in the finals in Europe, they drown this biomass and say it because it's just like someone else and they like that we're carbon neutral. So it's also Denmark. And what they also have in Denmark is another benefit, which is called carbon tax. And maybe that's not what we're talking about here, the introduction of a carbon tax. At the moment when emission allowances, or carbon dioxide discharges, will be paid for by all, not only central sources, not only heat plants, but also decentral ones, then, of course, discrimination against heat plants will simply not be like this and, look, suddenly, heating from central sources, from highly efficient even heart-supply systems, will start to pay off. It's nothing more than that the energy system has gotten into a situation where it's pre-taxed, reregulated, and it's no longer possible to live with it in the finals. So once again, I would like to ask you to support this amendment, because I think we can go our own way in the Czech Republic, and the heating industry has been with us for decades, maybe even a hundred years, so we should not lose it. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u41	Thank you. And since I'm no longer seeing anyone else logged in, I'm asking again if anyone from the scene is reporting to the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the final words, is the Minister interested in the plaintiffs? Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u42	I would just like to say that I thank you for your support for all those involved in the preparation of this law, as well as for the discussions that we held in committee, because to some extent they were enriching, and in some areas they have shown us how to proceed further in some areas. On the other hand, I still insist that, despite all the fact that some Members think that the last proposal is in line with European legislation, I cannot recommend the Czech Republic and I cannot act in such a way that where I know that infringement will surely come, I will summon it. It's just not my procedure. At this point, it is written that it is contrary to European law, because European law addresses real efficiency when connecting to an efficient source, and that is actually where it decides to what extent this connection is really effective and will not deteriorate. Inefficient resources are to be restored as quickly as possible. That's all I have to say. I would like to ask you to support this law, including what I have said, that we do not recommend it and that we are opposed to the approval of Mr Král's amendment, which I am sorry for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u43	Thank you. Will I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word? It's not like that. I'm the one who's engaged to lure colleagues from the lobby into the hall to the final vote. But before we go to the final vote on the amendments, we must deal with Mr Adamec's proposal, which proposes to withdraw Amendment C2. So I'm gonna reengage before we launch the vote. I'm registering an interest in check-out, so I'm checking you all out and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards. We'll wait a little while longer before the numbers settle. So I will repeat Mr Adamec's proposal, which we are now voting on, whether the House agrees to withdraw the amendment under letter C2. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 166 Members signed in for 166, against no one. This proposal was adopted. And I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. We have been fully acquainted with the content of the amendment by the Minister and with the content of the amendments by the Chairman of the Economic Committee. And allow me to read to you the procedure proposed by the Guarantee Economic Committee: Firstly, the proposals for legislative technical adaptations made at third reading, if read in the debate at third reading, secondly Amendment D, thirdly Amendment A, fourth Amendment C, Amendment C1. If Amendment C1 is adopted, Amendment B is unvoting. If Amendment C1 is not adopted, we will vote on Amendment B. [[11.50 hours]] Furthermore, Amendment C2, which we have now withdrawn, followed by Amendment C3. Fifth Amendment B, sixth Amendment E, seventh Amendment F and eighth Bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u45	Thank you to the rapporteur. So now we should agree to the proposed procedure. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 40, registered 172, in favour of 171 Members, against 1. The motion was accepted. I will therefore ask for proposals from individual amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u46	Draft legislative technical proposals have not been read in the debate, so let us move on to Amendment D. It is Mr Jan Bureš and Mrs Marie Pošarová's amendment. This amendment regulates the entitlement of heat producers from renewable energy sources to the retroactive payment of maintenance aid. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u47	Thank you. The plaintiff's position? Unadvisable. Mike, please, Minister. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41, 173 Members signed in, for 17, versus 126. The motion was not accepted. Please, rapporteur, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u48	Thank you. We will now vote on Amendment a. It is a resolution of the Economic Committee and it is legislative technical regulation. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u49	The plaintiff's position? Mike, please. [[I recommend it.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, 173 Members registered, in favour of 172, against none. The motion was accepted. Next please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u50	Thank you. We will also vote on Amendments C, Amendment C1 of Members Tomáš Müller and Ivan Adamec on the authorisation of low-carbon power generation without emission sources of 1 megawatt and more, as well as on the introduction of the concept of the nature of the territory. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u51	The plaintiff's position? [[I recommend it.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 43, 173 Members signed in for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another amendment, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u52	Thank you. We have withdrawn Amendment C2, so we are approaching Amendment C3, which was presented by Mr Ivan Adamec. This is an obligation to demonstrate the impact on the energy performance of buildings when changing the way of heating buildings. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u53	The plaintiff's position? [[I recommend it.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 44, 173 Members registered, for 157, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can move on to the next amendment, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u54	Since we have adopted Amendment C1, Amendment B of Mr Müller is unvoteable. That is why we are moving on to the amendment e by Mrs Dostálová and Mr Roman Kubíček. The words "built-in territory or a stopable area' shall be replaced by the words "where they comply with the planning documentation'. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u55	The plaintiff's position? [[I recommend it.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 45, 172 Members signed in for 172, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can go to the next one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u56	Yes. We are in favour of Amendment F by Mr Václav Král. The amendment aims to maintain central heat supply in the Czech Republic and to exploit the potential of this combined production of electricity and heat. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u57	The plaintiff's position? [[I don't recommend it.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 46, 171 Members signed in, for 83, against 10. The motion was not accepted. As we voted on all the amendments, we will proceed to the vote on the proposal as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in the energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws, the Energy Act, as amended, and Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations, Construction Act, as amended, according to House Press 313, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 47, 173 Members registered, for 173, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. A reminder of the vote, please. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u58	Hello, I'm not questioning the vote, but I'm high on vote 40 that I was against it, but I voted in favour. Once again, I am not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-002-104.u59	Thank you. We are before opening the point
