ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u1	6. Proposal by Members of Ivan Bartoš, Martin Kupka, Věra Kovářová, Jan Jakob, Marek Výborný and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Building Act /Departmental Printing 63/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Now I have an actual comment from Mrs Dostálová... Well, I guess that was a mistake. The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 63/1, and I am asking that Minister Bartoš put the proposal forward as the plaintiff. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to point out, as part of the opening words of the petitioner, that this is actually the original proposal, so I will perform at the moment when we presented this proposal together with Mr Martin Kupka, Věra Kovářová, Jan Jakob, Marek Výborný from the position of Members. Allow me to present to you a proposal to amend Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act. The House's proposal was tabled by a group of Members 23. 11., the government discussed it 1. 12. and adopted a favourable opinion on it. On July 29, 2021, a new construction law was published in the Collection of Laws. The construction law did not come entirely from the government's draft, but finally, by means of a comprehensive amendment of the economic committee, which was made by Mr Kolovratník, it returned to the original Ministry of Regional Development and at that time to Minister Klára Dostálová submitted the original bill. There was no broad political consensus on the text of this amendment, including its fundamental principles, and we, as a group of Members under the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, have tabled a comprehensive amendment. I think there must be a strong political consensus on this type of legislation - and we have announced it - which has such an impact. It wasn't filled. As a result - and we have also announced - there was a risk that the construction law would be subject to any further changes - it should be stable, it should be consensual - which, as you will certainly recognise, is extremely undesirable and frequent changes to the construction law do not allow for long-term planning. As Members of the opposition parties at the time, we did not agree that a new structure of the construction offices should be created and that this authority should be withdrawn from the municipalities, and we announced that we wanted to work with this law in the next parliamentary term as a priority. What happened? We actually passed this law last year, and we had an ambition to discuss this proposal last year, but as the situation developed with the appointment of the government, the government actually took office 21. 12., 17. has been appointed, and this ambition has not been fulfilled. However, we spoke with Minister Dostálová at the time that we will certainly have to open this law at first, because by the way the law is under way, only formally created the structures which we will change in the new bill of construction, or we would prefer to say the procedural integration as proposed by the comprehensive amendment of the group of Members, rather than the creation of a pyramid of the building offices, which is because we now have a new year 2022, formally and in paper form. However, we do not want to go this way, and within this law we want - and now I will correct the word - to abolish this change. We will have to return it so that the process of occupation and the actual establishment of a network of regional construction offices does not start. What I am assessing positively - and we have also talked about this in the past period - is the creation of a special building office that is being created will work. From the principle of the matter, it is a necessary office, because a number of buildings of strategic importance are significantly above-regional. We have the ambition to start or continue some major constructions this year, so the special construction office is being created. The proposal was originally tabled in the 90th to be approved at first reading, but I would like to withdraw this proposal - and then read it in the next debate. Let's talk about the shorter time limits or the standard time limits to discuss this law through committees. It is necessary to respond to the situation, and we have an ambition - even in the Government's programming declaration - to discuss, prepare and, in a standard manner, to submit a amendment to the Construction Act before the House in the way we proposed it in the past period without the costly transformation for which the Ministry of Interior estimated the costs of about 20 billion in the previous parliamentary term. And then, in the next part of this year, on this proposal that is yet to come to the House, we will seek consensus. At the moment, therefore, there is a House press 63, which addresses the situation of the start of a network of construction offices, which is formal but not factual. We've decided not to go that way. I will also, for example, comment in the general debate on this press. However, this law is very simple, we need at the moment to avoid implementing a structure that will not be used in the future of the building process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of this press, Mr Robert králíček. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Government, fellow Members, I would just sum up the proposal presented by Minister Bartoš and said some essential things to keep you informed. On 29 July 2021 Act No. 283/2021 Coll., the so-called new construction law, which was the culmination of long-term efforts to reform Czech building law. The basic recodification theories were submitted in 2017 and work has been carried out since then on the preparation of the new construction code. These works culminated in September 2020, when the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic submitted a proposal for a new building law and a related amendment law, House prints 1008 and 1009 in the 8th parliamentary term. The proposed law does not disturb the new building code, only postpones its effectiveness, and only partially. The new construction law will take effect on 1 July 2023, as originally planned, but only in relation to the so-called reserved constructions, i.e. constructions within the scope of the specialised and appellate building office. The rest of the law, although it will largely be formally effective, does not apply, in other words, to all other buildings, but also to everything else that the construction law regulates, the old regulation applies to it. For this reason a specialized construction office will also be established, but not the regional construction offices. The highest building office must be established, but it will only be set up in an organisational manner. Its tasks will effectively be carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development, not as an independent office. It should be said that the Government's position was an agreement and guarantee committee, i.e. the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, has not yet delivered an opinion on the proposal. As Minister Bartoš has already mentioned here, the original proposal was to be agreed with under Section 90, i.e. already at first reading, but it is likely that this proposal will be withdrawn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, for your intelligence report. At this point, I am opening up a general debate. Minister Kupka reports with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we have a new construction law on our table. We have it on the table because it has not been possible to find an elementary consensus across the Chamber of Deputies, both this key procedural but not only procedural but also substantive standard into life. [[10.00 hours]] There was a dramatic dispute and a serious dispute about whether a new huge construction office was to be created at regional level - not at the level of the current regional authorities, to be clear, but a new structure that would exist in parallel with the current regional authorities, alongside the current general construction offices at urban and municipal level. It would mean thousands of officials who would go into this new structure. And as it turns out now, and we have heard it very loudly again in recent days, there would be a real risk that in the Czech Republic there will be a halt to the construction activity due to the crippling of the building administration, because by cities and municipalities, and we have mentioned it here not as a hypothesis, not as some political talk, but as a real response from the territory, that both secretaries and mayor cities and municipalities will offer existing officials at the level of the construction offices an engagement that will be attractive to them in place that we will lose what we have in the Czech Republic - decision-making with local knowledge, decision-making in appropriate professional qualifications. We pointed out these real risks consistently, but it was like throwing games on a wall. The situation has changed. The current situation allows us to remedy this serious problem and prevent the absolutely real risk that instead of speeding up the construction activity, building activity will stop as a result of the emergence of a new structure. This is why we are now coming to you with a proposal that gives basic certainty to cities and municipalities that there will be no fatal disruption to the current mixed model of public administration and that we will find a solution in the following year, which I hope will already have consistency across the House, as it did in the case of digitization of the building process, and it will be an acceptable form of structure of the construction administration in the Czech Republic. But now, in order to really send out a clear signal to cities and municipalities that there is no need to fear that a new regional structure does not arise in ten or twelve thousand heads, so that we delay efficiency for this particular segment of construction activity, for general buildings. But because from the beginning, we also said that we found consensus on the new form of the new construction law in important principles, such as the ban on ping-pong, in simplifying individual steps, in limiting the number of stamps. There was a consensus here from the beginning, and it was a great shame that some government officials failed to release their way to a sensible solution. Now it's up to us to come up with a reasonable solution. I really think it is important now to send a clear signal to cities and municipalities that there will be no earthquake at the level of urban and municipal construction offices, at the level of urban authorities. This is important news. I would like to remind you that this was far from merely a political dispute at the time. The feud was among the key ministries. Recall the extensive study done by the Ministry of the Interior and drew attention to the serious problems that the reform of the building administration would have. And from the first moment and until the last moment, the proposal was extremely critical. I would like to stress that creating a standard that has such a fundamental dispute at the level of the ministry in question - which is supposed to be a partner, because the MMR is the relevant Ministry of Construction, but for the administrative order and for the organisation of public administration it is the Ministry of the Interior - to create a standard that basically means such a serious dispute between the two key ministries is simply nonsense, and now unfortunately it just shows itself. One important thing, which is also linked to our intervention and previous discussions, was the digitalisation of the building process. I would like to thank everyone once again who, before the debate on the whole new reform of the construction law, managed to join together across and create a form of capable and correct digitization of the building proceedings, which was then followed by a complete recodification of the building law. This has also created basic possibilities for drawing European resources so that a builder's portal can be created in the future, so that a digital technical map can be created seamlessly, so that a digital storage of project documentation can be created and, of course, records of individual steps in building management. This is the basic grid, the basic matrix, if you want, to really speed up the construction process in the Czech Republic. It turned out, and here we need to emphasise this as a material statement that, at the best of will, it would not be possible to properly test and run the entire digital building management model by the last June of 2023. I'm not saying this as a remorse, I'm just saying it as a statement. This wouldn't be technically possible. And I certainly don't have to explain to anyone that such a serious thing to run without testing, without training at the level of cities and municipalities, would be extremely irresponsible and would be in danger of fiasco. Therefore, the adjournment in this direction is also a necessary step in order to get the digitization right to the end. I am stressing this so that the counterargument, for example, does not sound unnecessary, that we delay digitalisation. This is not happening, we are interested in digitising the construction process, and we are also interested in making use of European resources in this important digitalisation project. I beg you to understand the arguments for those who were here in the previous period, you've been through the long discussions. Let us continue to debate on a substantive level which, of course, has important political implications. A common interest is in relation to transport infrastructure, in relation to housing construction as quickly as possible to put together a good construction law. And it's not just about speed, it's about quality. At a time when the standard will not be good, there are many other serious complications and even greater risks to developers, because the worst thing, of course, is to face and lose litigation. I believe that in the coming period, in cooperation with all individual clubs, it will be possible to create a good solution for building administration in the Czech Republic, which will be based on 21st century rules. What can be done digitally and what can be unified under one digital roof, so do it, and do not think in the intensities of the 19th century that everyone must be under one stone roof. Because even if they were under one stone roof, but the digital connection and the exchange of information didn't work well, it wouldn't work just as well. Please, let's agree quickly on this basic modification and delaying efficiency and let's start work as quickly as possible on the relevant, factual solution of the construction process in the Czech Republic for the 21st century, the construction process which can be quality, fast, unified, will bother people as little as possible and allow for quick construction of both apartments and important transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u7	Thank you very much. The President Jakob shall report with the right of priority. I'm picking up President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow speakers have basically said everything that matters. I would like to appeal as one of the petitioners for our club to discuss this amendment as quickly as possible, because I think all of us are being approached by our colleagues from the authorities, mayors, mayors, and mayors, as will be the case with the construction law. The situation is inconspicuous at the moment. I therefore appeal very much to discuss this amendment as quickly as possible, and also to buy the necessary time so that, finally, there can be some consensus across the political spectrum in this area of legislation so that we do not get into a similar situation in the future. [[10.10 hours]] There's been all the arguments about why and what parts are being postponed. As in the previous parliamentary term, I join the party of a number of fellow mayors in order to avoid the emergence of super-office quotes at regional level. On the other hand, I very much welcome as a former transport guarantor in our party that a specialized construction office will be created to address the so-called reserved buildings. I also welcome the agreement that we concluded here before the beginning of today's meeting with colleagues from YES, and I believe that at first reading this amendment will be discussed in such a way that there may be discussions on committees and that this is the next step towards making our colleagues in the Authority more aware of what will actually happen. So thank you very much and I believe that the amendment will be discussed quickly so that the certainty will then be 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u9	Thank you very much. Another one with Mrs Schillerová's priority right. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am speaking on behalf of the club of the ANO and SPD movement and objecting to the proposal to give my consent to the draft amendment of the construction law at first reading. This objection is lodged pursuant to § 90 para. 3 of the Act on Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u11	Thank you very much. We record your veto, so that we will not proceed further in the discussion according to § 90 para. 2. The President of the Excellent applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u12	Mr Vice-President, Government, Minister, fellow Members, allow me briefly for the KDU-ČSL, and perhaps for you, who are sitting here as new Members, to remind - and he said this in very detail, Minister Kupka, I will not repeat it - but really, who were not here in the past period, so there was a very long, rancid debate and a debate on the proposal that Mrs Dostálová represented here. It wasn't easy, the debate. Maybe if we were looking for a real consensus back then, we could have saved ourselves the whole process today. But I believe that we can do this with constructive debate here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And I would just like to remind you of what has not been said here: here in the House we have also the proposal of the Pardubice Region, the council of the Pardubice Region, which is aimed at the same thing, and that is to postpone the effectiveness of the construction law, there it is even as a whole. We here come up with a proposal to postpone partial parity, but I would like to say that we, too, as promoters, are in contact with both the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities and, of course, with the Association of Regions. I spoke with the Governor of Netolický on the matter that represents the Association of Regionals, which is why it served the Pardubice Regional Council. Of course, at the moment, there is also agreement with these organisations representing self-government on the procedure represented by Minister Bartoš. I think it's very important. And what do I want to stress? Our procedure is not supposed to lead us to slow down the acceleration - now it is a bit of a contradiction - but to slow down the acceleration of the building process, on the contrary, we want to ensure that there is no collapse of the building process in the coming months and years, and where these things really deserved and were mentioned here, these specialised construction offices - we need and we have never disputed the proposals of the former Ministry for Local Development, Madam Secretary - and we want to ensure this, and that is why we have made our own proposal, we did not go the way of the Pardubice Region's proposal so that we do not really put those major infrastructure structures at risk. Everyone in their regions knows what we are talking about. So those are the reasons and the goals. I would be pleased if we were to do this on the committees as well, and in time, we will approve this inter-course that we have here at the moment, because at the moment, at the Ministry of Regional Development, the expert group is already working on implementing those parts that were already in agreement in the current government coalition during the last parliamentary term, so that we can implement them into the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u13	Thank you very much. Next up, President Radim Fiala is claiming priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, it seemed from Mr Výborný's speech that there was an agreement, a consensus that everything would change again and it would be different. So I want to tell all citizens that there is no agreement or consensus with the SPD movement. For us, it still means what it was, and we have one password for it - Bangladesh. What was here in recent years is called Bangladesh, because the Czech Republic is in the length of the construction process in 160th place and Bangladesh is in front of us. So if you wish, Mr Výborný, through Mr President, to return it, we are categorically against it. You said here which organizations you have a consensus with that you're dealing with. They were all self-government, all politicians. Have you ever asked citizens how long they have to wait for a building permit? Have you asked the citizens what the housing question is in the Czech Republic? How much do apartments cost? What is the dynamics of increasing apartments in the Czech Republic? And you want to put it back? Bangladesh, Mr Excellent, through Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u15	Thank you very much. In fact, Minister Kupka is reporting. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u16	All I'm gonna do is put that burning speech on Bangladesh back on the ground. We would like us not to get behind Lesotho, and this is a real threat when the building administration is broken down. You leaned into the authorities here, into the mayors. Look at the confidence that mayors and local authorities are looking forward to. Insults of this type don't belong here. We have to look for a way to manage the building administration as quickly as possible, and the problem is not in the smallest building offices and in the functioning building administration. The problem often arises where construction activity is dramatically complicated, where it is more complex projects and when we have to solve this well. Attacks of this type are stupid, and they're just knocking you down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u17	Another factual point, Mrs Peštová. Otherwise, I'm registering an application with Prime Minister Bartošek's preferential right and again President Fiala. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u18	Thank you for your word. I followed closely the gunfight that was here about the construction law during the last term. Then I saw a beautiful forum where Radka Vladyková, the director of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, was on one side plus, of course, one mayor and on the other, was Deputy Minister Pavlová, former Deputy Minister Pavlová, and there was a representative with her who represented the construction companies. And from that forum, it sounded really beautiful what the mayors were up to. The problem in our state is that we have a mixed model here, that is, state administration and self-government in one house, and the mayors think they're gonna lose their jurisdiction. But the mayors never had any authority. They're constantly confusing what's being transferred. The transferred jurisdiction of the State means that they are merely exercising the authority given to them for the State. [[10.20 hours]] That means the mayors have nothing to worry about, the authority is the state. These are the state authorities that perform and they only have a delegated competence. And that's the whole problem that's here. So I would recommend to the mayors that they stop fighting something they never had. Power is the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u19	Thank you. Another point of fact, Mr Adamec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u20	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Ministers, colleagues, very briefly. You can't be serious, this thing that was said here? After all, the point is that we have a merged model, and this whole pressure has come from building developers in Prague who think that the state construction office will meet their requirements better. I think it needs to be said that either we dismantle a merged public administration model or we don't. One attempt has already been made here in terms of social welfare, I would say. Today we all know it wasn't good. And let's face it: either the municipalities are going to be self-government, or we're going to have a merged model here. There's nothing in between. And here's the point: we don't want the public administration to dignify with this senseless bill of construction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u21	Thank you. Another is Mr Kučera's motion to make a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u22	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to Mrs Peštová, who has taught us here what is the difference between the state administration and the self-government and the delegation. Mrs Peštová, through Mr President, all the mayors know this very well and act very well accordingly, you do not need to lecture them. The problem with the construction law is because your movement, which has ruled here for eight years, has had all the means to build a quality standard, a quality building law for eight years. It had the Minister for Regional Development, it had the Minister of Finance, it had the Minister of the Environment, it had the Prime Minister for four years, it had the Minister of Transport, that is, all the necessary ministries to build a very good standard, but it just couldn't. There's a problem with the construction law. Indeed, the problem is not the mayors and their misunderstood what the delegated powers, government and self-government mean. The problem is in the inability of the ANO movement to build a high-quality building law and eight years of wasted time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bureš signed up for the application. I'm registering Mr. Fiala's registration. And you're applying for a factual remark? [[Member Radim Fiala speaking from the bench.]] There's a whole series of actual applications that come first. When the factual remarks are exhausted, I will, of course, give you priority rights. All right, with priority rights, Minister Bartoš was first and then Mr Fiala, and then we will return to factual remarks. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Really, first of all, the Prime Minister has me confused. As I was saying in the order that I have applications for a factual remark here. If Mr Fiala wishes to make a point of fact, he may do so, but at this point in time, Mr Bureš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u24	I don't think I'm gonna use it. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, dear colleagues, I would also like to respond to Mrs Peštová. I don't know how long she worked in self-government. I've been mayor of Oerpéčka for 11 years, and I can say that I am very well aware, just like all my other fellow mayors, what is the difference between the state administration and the self-government, or the transferred scope of the state administration. We know that very well. I understand that maybe she doesn't have to feel that way, but I'll tell you what's bothering us about the existing building bill or what's bothering me personally. It bothers me that then Minister Dostálová made a roadshow around the Czech Republic, circled the regions, explained, interested, and listened to us to the mayors who gave our comments and suggestions. I sent it to her by e-mail, and I was very happy that she responded immediately to my e-mail, that she was aware of it and that, in essence, these are the same thoughts as we mayors who need to do in the construction law. And then it came here to the House, and now I am saying my opinion and my impression, and she has agreed with colleague Kolovratník, who has made a completely different amendment. And from what she promised us, and from what she heard from us, suddenly it was completely different, but vice versa something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u25	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna read the order of actual notes. Mr Lochman, Mrs Peštová, Mr Kolovratník, and Mrs Kovářová, will continue at this time to take note of the facts. So I shall ask the first, Mr Lochman. Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u26	Thank you. Good morning, colleagues. Good day, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Mrs Peštová, through the President. This is unbelievable! Either you don't know how it works in the real world, you don't know what an ORP is, you don't know what an ORP is, so you can afford to say that mayors don't know what the transfer is. How can you afford this? You have over 6,000 mayors here, you have dozens of oerpants here, and of course we know what the transferred scope is, of course we know what self-government is. We know we represent the locals in the government. But what's the problem is, you guys invented the Building Authority Act under one stone house, all centralized, and you came up with that, written by developers. That's the whole problem. That's why we're arguing about this now, you've been arguing about it in the last parliamentary term. And if you hadn't defended the development interests and listened to the mayors who have the greatest confidence in this republic in the long term, that's long overdue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u27	Thank you. Another point of fact is that of Mrs Peštová. Madam, you have the floor and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u28	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. Please, Mr President, do not insult me. Unlike you, I know the Oerpeas aren't a few dozen, but over 200. I was the Deputy Minister of the Environment for eight years, and I worked all the time not only for Oerpecs but also for the regions. It's just for the drawing. The problem here is one thing. Self-administration and state administration are sitting in the same house. Self-administration gets money from the state to make the government work. And there is the problem, because civil servants are dependent on self-government, and then when one of the politicians comes and says something that he should not say, and I personally have solved several such problems, so I say things from practice, Mr Member, through Mr President. Self-righteous never had that power, that authority. It is always the authority of the state administration, and the delegation is delegated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u29	Thank you very much. Another is Mr Kolovratník, on the point of fact. Mrs Kovářová will be ready, followed by Mr Lochman and Mr Kupka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u30	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues. For me it's déjà vu that we experienced here a year ago, it was, I guess, not exactly for the day exactly, Marek Výborný goes by me and remembers, I think the first reading was sometime before Christmas, and then we agreed on those hundred days between the first and second readings and those debates here were the same. So the content is the same, the sets are the same, only the staffing has changed a little bit in some of you. [[10.30 hours]] I, on my own account, want to respond quickly to Ondra Lochman, the Member. I am a representative of the city in Pardubice, I am also a regional representative, so perhaps I have a bit of a mandate to say that I also know what I am talking about, and I know what regional planning looks like, what regional work looks like, although I agree that Pardubice is a regional, statutory town, it is not a small village. I'm aware of that. But I want to respond mainly here to Michal Kučera, to the political, ideal complaint that we had x years to do it, to change it and do it right and do it right, but Michal Kučera, through Madam President, you will remember or remember, Mr colleague, that minus two parliamentary periods, i.e. 2013 to 2017, we tried it then. And I don't mean that as some kind of bad complaint or defense right now. In fact, it was in 2016 for Secretary Karla Šlechtová. We tried - I like to use those words, it was evolution, not revolution - we tried to set up the old law back then, patch it up, improve it. And yes, it didn't work out. We all just see that it doesn't work anymore. That's why we decided last year to do this, not evolution, but revolution. And yet it's not true that it's hell at the last minute and power last year. You know, from Klára Dostálová, the MMR has been working on this since 2017, practically since the beginning of last term. And I'm surprised by the great resistance, the emotions of Ivan Adamec. I mean, Mr. Colleagues, Court of Kings, what's happening around D11 is exactly evidence and a demonstration of what we keep saying... unless the administration is united, that it won't work. [[Prime Minister, time!]] Thank you. I'll say it later in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u31	Thank you. Another is Mrs Kovářová, Mrs Kovář, to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mrs Pešatová's speech... [[From the platoon: Pests!]] ...Peštová, I'm sorry, which, unfortunately, President Schillerová took from the O.R. Anyway, I hope he hears it in the lobby. She mentioned that the mayors are worried about losing their powers, and they are very wrong about that. If she had been in contact with the mayors - like the rest of us Members, as she says she has been deputy for eight years - she would have known very well that the mayors have quite different concerns. They are concerned that construction agencies will not be sufficiently accessible to citizens, and this is what is bothering them. This is a crucial matter for them, because every mayor knows how he should proceed to the building office and that he must not interfere with it. So it might also be good to ask after eight years, and I recommend that Mrs Peštová, through Mr President, take these mayors around to see what availability is in the future of the construction offices, and we want to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u33	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Lochman is next in order to make a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u34	Thank you. One more comment on Mrs Peštová, through the President. We are really worried that the authorities will not be available, what Mrs Kovářová here said, that the service to the citizens will be far away, that it will not be so close to them. That's what this is about! We're not worried that we mayors are gonna lose our competence, because I agree with Mrs. Peštová here, we don't have it. And if Mrs. Peštová here says that the mayors go to the construction offices and influence the processes, then I would like to say that this may be the mentality of our colleagues, yes, when they think about it like that, but we certainly don't have that mentality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u35	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Lukáš Vlček, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u36	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, I think that we could calm our emotions a little bit, and we could have a more real and rational conversation, because I would like to respond to what Mr Kolovratník said here. Yes, you tried to make a complex modification of the original construction law. It didn't work out. Six months later, the whole construction process got longer. But that is not the reason to change form I would say how it will work in the Czech Republic regarding building law. I am in favour of the fact that when the content of the bill or the law itself changes, the form should not be changed, because it cannot be managed at the same time. And you actually solved the problems by changing the content correctly, and I totally agree with you there, and I think we agree on that, and thank you for that, but it's just the form of separation of the construction authorities from the authorities, which I think is wrong, and it's dangerous, because we've already decided years ago that there's going to be a merged model here. And now we're purposefully pulling out part of that merged model in public administration just because we think it's gonna work better. So let's go back to discussing whether or not the merged public administration model is correct. And what Martin Kolovratník here said, and he didn't say, about the lady who works at the construction office in Dvoře, when her husband appealed against the D11 zoning decision, so unfortunately that cannot be ruled out even in the state model. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u37	Thank you for the time being, Mr Vlček is now registered with Mr Vlček and Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u38	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, colleagues, I would also like to remind you, in a way and briefly, of my previous speakers. The proposal, as it is, really significantly, significantly destroys the combined model of performance of the state administration. As we think it is functional here in the long term, he obviously needs his revision, especially in the field of digitalisation, but the construction procedure is not only about the construction procedure itself from the point of view of the building permit, but let us be aware that most of the buildings are very closely linked to other areas such as the environment, the specialised building office and so on. The current amendment, as proposed, or the state of the law, is unfortunately not prepared either by personnel, capacity, background, it is not provided where these people will physically sit, if these people are physically willing to cross. In my own experience, the 15-year experience of Mayor Oerpéčka I see that there are really many, many fundamental things here. You did not respect the essential comments made by organizations such as the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Regions. I myself saw that the fundamental, really very practical comments were hundreds. You didn't respect them, so let's not be surprised there's such a big resistance from the territory. In addition to the connection of the connected model itself, this means the connection of separate and delegated scope. Let us remember that the state did not send and long-term did not send funds for the performance of the state administration itself, so you had to finance it and finance it from municipal budgets so that this transferred performance of the state administration would be functional at all. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u39	I also thank you for keeping the time, now Mr Martin Kolovratník and so far the last point of fact will then be Mr Robert králíček. That concludes the series of factual remarks. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u40	Thank you. Seriously, quick, and I'll take it from the back. Right now, the reaction to Mr. Vlček, if I remember the one who spoke in front of me. Mr. colleague, you're worried that it's not staffed, ready where these people will sit and so on. I mean, that's why it's set up like this, it's not until July 2023, that's the year and a half. We have time to talk about this now, you and your colleague Bartoš at the Ministry of Regional Development, snitching whip in quotes, and getting ready to do all that. And on the other hand, I fear that this step - I can understand it by the idea, by the argument of Věra Kovářová, Ondra Lochman and others, but you are making enormous uncertainty about it. I mean, the whole process is gonna stick around. These people won't know where they're going, they'll be there, won't they? But on the contrary, if we had a clear timetable and talked here together about amendments - remember, many of them failed, planning in separate scope and so on - we can say imperfect, not completely perfect law to improve, to find agreement, but you can be sure of the so-called timetable. And by what you're suggesting, you're gonna make everything unsure. Responses to Věra Kovářová. I hear we're worried it won't be available anywhere. But there is Section 332 in the new law, which temporarily, or is a short-term transitional provision, defines the first decree that sets the map. We have her in Pardubice County. I know there's two or three white spots in there. My friends, this may be the subject of a quick amendment, and now please don't take my word for it, brainstorming how to modify the parameters of Section 332 a little bit so that the white places are as small as possible. We can agree on that here in the '90s, maybe. [[10.40 hours]] And the last reaction to Mr Lochman. But you, colleagues, are arguing against each other. Ivan Bartoš fences digitalization and correct - we are in agreement. Maybe, Ivan, I'm sorry about the word swordplay, we're just in agreement with the digitalization, everything will be remote, we won't need to go to the authorities, so why are you afraid of that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Robert králíček and then the last de facto so far, President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u42	Mr. Lochman, what right do you have to insult our mayors, our mayors, our captains? By what right? Where do you get the audacity, through Madam President? Thank you. Mr. Adamec and I are being led here to do business, and you're insulting us here? You guys sweep your own doorstep! We've been talking about financing your movement for two days, and you're here insulting our mayors that they have some side thoughts? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u43	And now for the final deed, Mr. Chairman of Radim Fiala. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u44	Thank you. First, I want to respond to Minister Kupka, who said I was insulting the mayor. It's not true. I just said in my speech that you consulted the mayors and the authorities, which I think is okay, and we consulted the citizens. So we can see who's representing the party. And I get it, it's a legitimate thing. And the second thing I want to say is that this is a very important situation, the whole building bill, and I'd like to ask you for 45 minutes for a recess at the SPD club meeting - 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u45	There was a proposal from the club president for a 45-minute break, so we will comply. It means we'll meet again in 45 minutes, which means 11.26 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u46	Have a good day, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you after the break that the SPD MP has taken, and we can now go back and get back to point 6 where we are in the general debate. I'll introduce you to an apology that ran out of time. This is an apology for Mr Pavel Svoboda's illness today. I'd like to recap where we were. We have these registered: Minister Bartoš is registered with priority right, then President of the Fiala Club and then we have duly signed up for the general debate, Mrs Klára Dostálová and Mr Martin Kolovratník. I will now ask Minister Bartoš with the right of priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u47	I thank you for your word after this break. I applied to the debate, but then I actually wrote down what was said in the various factual comments. By your means, Madam President, I would just like to take a short look at what has been said by the President of the SPD Fiala Club. When we negotiated in the last parliamentary term on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as well as in the group of opposition Members, I would like to say that representatives of the SPD were also present there. In fact, we have been debating the entire parliamentary term whether the government proposal of the original, the government proposal amended or the proposal that returned to the House by means of Mr Kolovratník's comprehensive amendment, the one for which will be decided, and only in the finals after this debate was heard from the SPD just before the end of the year, that it will support Mr Kolovratník's proposal, so in the finals, the proposal where we are talking about only changing it so that it does not happen. So, of course, in his discussion, representatives of the SPD were also in those, say, working groups and were discussed. I think that what was said here also from some of my previous speakers now, otherwise people who expressed themselves in those factual remarks, of course, leads to this - and it is our ambition - to find a wider consensus than it was in the previous parliamentary term, when the law was finally pushed to strength, although many of our arguments were adopted during the debate, then it was incorporated into the so-called hybrid, with which we were therefore not completely satisfied, but at least respected some views of our partners, so this debate will be conducted, but when this proposal comes from the government, when we talk about the individual parameters, or during the creation of the proposal on the individual parameters of our version of the amendment of the Construction Act. [[11.30 hours]] The other thing I wanted to mention, and I think it's important. This is where we sounded the order in the speed of the buildings. When I look at the data available to me, there are constructions that are considerably extended, and there are buildings that are relatively fast in quotation marks from the application for permission to their final implementation. Of course, the average length may be misleading in some sense, but let's just say what our common goal is. Our common objective is that an individual, a citizen who wants to build, a community that wants to build in terms of enriching its housing fund, a builder, or a developer who wants to build, has everything in one place to guarantee the dates so that documents are digital as far as possible, so that officials or those who build them don't check them out with each other, and the state administration in its delegated sense. That's the ambition, and our ambition is still the same. At one point, it was said who would push at the moment, whether it was the people who are in the authorities, or maybe it was developers. The policy aims to implement the program with which it is elected, to heed the welfare of the citizens, to determine some direction, and then, in that regard, if it has a majority in the House and it is a government policy, to get all the groups involved in the quotation marks, whether they are representatives of self-government, whether they are representatives, for example professionally dealing with issues of territorial planning, whether they are people from the world of digitization, because we are building this digital chassis, we want the Portal of a digital citizen, and we want to get to the table of developers, within the designated objective to find some consensus between all the groups, when the mayors again respond to their constituents, and find this consensus, which should somehow be balanced. It doesn't always work out at every moment that everyone is fully satisfied, it can't even be that everything is equally advantageous for everyone at the moment, but in the long run you want to do a sustainable policy that doesn't change by changing government and where it's in some final sum, the individual laws, whether it's about construction or whatever else, are kind of going well for all groups. This is what I think is the case with the Government Act, which finally approved the House by means of a proposal from Mr Kolovratník, who actually brought the original government proposal, that we have not achieved. In addition to accelerating the construction process in the Czech Republic, it is therefore our second ambition to see this law balanced so that those dealing with the construction process find their own: simplicity, speed, clarity. And I think that there should be a way in this law during this parliamentary term. At the same time, I wanted to add - and I am extremely happy for the democratic debate - we have been talking and speaking here by people, Members and Members, almost as if we were already dealing with the amendment to the construction law. But at this point, we're not dealing with her. The proposal, the press that you have before you now, simply says: The will that is now at the resorts is based on government-party programs and it is such that this law can be redesigned to prevent the creation of the highest building office, so that the competences that are now in the municipalities are not shifted to the edge, so that officials do not move around and that the competences remain not to those who are in charge of the municipalities, so it has never been, but as close as possible to the solution. In order to do this, and yet it will happen, we must stop what the original proposal, which we will be redesigning, has introduced with a breakthrough in the new year. So what we're talking about right now is when this is going to happen. So, the debate in fact, about what was right, what was right in the original proposal - and there were things that are good, what is wrong - I would expect it, and I would invite everyone to it at the moment when a new law will be made, when there will be a round table, when the wheels will go, when the law will be discussed, and this is what we think it should be. But, of course, I am not denying anyone at this time to comment on this issue, but I just think that we are not quite talking about what the new building law should be like right now. What we are talking about has already been made very clear. This isn't what the last government put forward, we want to do it differently, let's talk about what it's gonna look like in the finals. And one more thing. We look at building law - and legislation is important - and often it is in politics for other things that the media or anyone chooses one thing from the whole complex and joins it as: We're going to have a new building law, oh - we're going to build amazingly fast. Of course, many other things are important to this. If we raise the question of building only and exclusively for housing housing, there are a number of tools that must also work in order to build more in the Czech Republic, so that municipalities can, for example, get new apartments into their portfolio, into their housing fund, to facilitate young people, such as the BAUGRUPPE system, to build a house in five families, and the municipality has helped them do so. There are already prepared projects that should be tested - but so far they are more considered - that should test cooperation with the private sector in those PPP projects. There is also an identification of places where you could build, which at the moment is to stand under some resorts. These are all tools, if we want to deal with the housing situation, we need to move everyone forward like this. So all I would do is avoid the interpretation that even if we had super tough legislation, it automatically means, that's how we start building tomorrow. We need to push it everywhere, most often built in cities and municipalities, which is why our proposals also lead to strengthening the role of self-government, territorial planning. The law should be simple, it should be quick. I'd just avoid pretending that only one law saves everything. The law is supposed to give a good framework for it, react to those things, and at the same time, the whole process of digitization runs parallel to that. It started a lot earlier. And the proposal that we have tabled here with the Member, now Minister Kupka, with Mrs Kovářová and others, has led to the fact that instead of moving in, let us give it a good digital chassis and integrate the processes. That's the direction we want to keep going. And the last thing that said here is that if we digitize, there won't be a need for the building office to have a citizen available. That's just not true and we experience it today and every day. My parents - but it doesn't have to be my parents - can handle a cell phone, they have Internet banking and they can buy a ticket in IDOS, but I don't expect any documentation of the construction plan to be uploaded to the Portal or anything like that. Just a large proportion of citizens in the Czech Republic, and it is not even divided by age, it is not the domain of older people, they simply will not use the digital services of the state as we imagine. That's why we're talking about strengthening the Czech POINT network, although we claim that in three years we have everything or two years from now all services should be digital, because just those people who for some reason don't want to be digital or can't do it will go to the post office or where the Czech POINT will be and dealt with there. And that's the view of the structure of the construction offices. While the company that builds maybe is already working with digital models of buildings in international standards, it just uploads it there and then just watches as it develops and updates the plans, so the person who intends to build a small family house may not have these skills, and therefore it is important that there is always the possibility of operating within the construction office in the village. I just wanted to say that digitalization is a powerful tool for the internal operation of the state, and it is absolutely essential in the building process, but even the proximity of the office in the municipalities is important precisely because a large part of people will never digitally do it. To conclude, please, let us move forward in the debate on the move. And I am glad that the debate will continue to be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u48	Thank you. It made a point of fact. May Mrs Berenika Peštová, please. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u49	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I listened carefully to you, and that's exactly what I've been saying all along. The problem here is the mixed model, that's the problem. The problem is that when I was still at the Ministry, and I think it wasn't just us who were constantly dealing with bias. And the bias was because the government was just under attack because it's financed by self-government. But I say, once again, that the state administration - there is only the delegation, she does the work for the state, and the municipality gets the money to do it so that the government can perform it. And that's the stuff we keep running into. I was listening as you said you wanted to find a wider consensus, but let's find a wider consensus and let's find courage in ourselves and separate the state administration from the self-government, so as not to be attacked, to avoid bias, to solve these problems, because they are now judicatures and we, when I was working as an expert deputy, and my people had to follow these judicatures. This means that if there is already some judicature here, which says that you are getting into trouble, that there has been a finding that there is a bias and you have to look for another state administration to solve it for another government, because, of course, when we have an ORP, as it was said here, you have a government and a government in that one house. The state administration is doing its job, right, and now you have a community that actually requires a building permit for the state administration. And right now you're getting into that position that some, I don't say nonprofits, but... [[Time, Madame!]] Okay, I'll finish it later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u50	Now with the de facto Minister Martin Kupka, another de facto Minister Ivan Bartoš, can prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u51	Just a very quick reaction. As well as my colleague, she undoubtedly has a number of examples of such interventions by self-government, much more often and the same number of examples, and even greater is on the side of the moments when systemic bias becomes a spell and yet there is no such interference. Let's really leave this debate to discuss the substantive adjustment of the law, let's talk about the shift of efficiency, and then bring really to the table and analysis of numbers about it - and that was missing in the previous debate - where the shoe really pushes us, where the extended deadlines pose a serious problem. And that really lacked an honest analysis to focus on where the problem really is and where it isn't. I agree with that, and I say it again, that we have to solve the problem of the spell of systemic bias. I remember one case from the Central Bohemia Region where we pointed out that accusing each other of systemic bias leads nowhere, causing far more serious problems. But let us not be illusioned that the problem of building proceedings in the Czech Republic is cursed in systemic bias. It is far more important that the processes be clear, they are transparent for all participants to see each other's individual officials for how long this thing is taking, and already the records, examples from abroad, lead to a shorter and better management process. Much more often there is a problem in the quality of decisions and those who write decisions than what is being said here that the problem of the Czech Republic would be in a merged model of public administration. I'm sure it isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u52	Thank you for keeping time, and now Minister Ivan Bartoš with a factual remark - cancels it. Mrs Berenika Peštová, once again with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u53	I'd like to respond here to the Minister of Transport Kupka. You know, she's the bias or what you're saying, how you're talking about this mixed model right now, it's not just about the construction law. This applies to other laws, these are also environmental laws, whether it is waste, where it is also transferred scope, whether it is IPPC, where it is also transferred scope, and other and other laws. So I think the model is wrong. The fact that he's sitting in the same house and the state administration is financed by the government, that's the gros and the problem that's here. And if we don't try to solve this problem, then we're going to keep spinning around, because the mayors think that if they finance it, there's a transfer of authority, that authority is theirs, and no one else is going to give it to them properly - I suggest you, Minister, I suggest you listen to the forum I referred to here, I will give it to you, and listen to what was said there. It really crystallized the fact that it's actually this problem. You will normally hear from the discussion there that this problem is the problem. And it didn't even talk about the law being wrong of the nature of the thing. The law that was prepared was really discussed for four years, four years, just like the Waste Act was discussed for eight years, eight years, and then I went to the individual - when I was a deputy minister, now I am an MP - so I also heard that there was no discussion at all. But it's not true, for eight years, the Waste Act has been discussed, and since 2007, everyone has been trying to get the amendment, or the new waste laws. Everything's being discussed here, but then when it's written down and it's done with a proper legislative process, it's thrown down here. [[Time, Madame!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u54	Thank you. It brought down the actual notes. Mr Ivan Adamec and then three others. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u55	Yes, thank you. Madam President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I partly have to agree with Mrs Peštová. Yes, it should be a good discussion of whether there is a well-integrated model of public administration or a separate model of government and self-government. By the way, when you say that mayors think they can interfere, there are other laws, and it's called overpowering a public official. And when you ask the mayors how they feel about it, they're very worried about it, interfering with decisions where they're not supposed to. Let's face it, that's the way it is, 'cause that's what I'd say is pretty harsh punishment. The way I always felt about it, it's just that there's protection. That systemic bias, that the courts have decided somehow - I don't want to criticize them here - always in those cases, that is true, but we have other agendas, like transport-management agendas, where there are offences and where systemic bias is part of the struggle of those guilty who fear punishment and simply try everything possible, which is, of course, right in terms of their rights, but it is definitely not in the building process. So I repeat again - let's face it, if we wanted to separate from the merged model from the different agendas, so rather than the salami method, let's face it, let's just do another model here. The model was created here because it is economically beneficial to each other both for municipalities and for the state. Let's get some pure wine. I'm really upset about the salami method in this case, and I can't imagine as the former mayor that I should have officials in my office in the same building of institutions other than the city. Let's face it, because sometimes that state favors its officials economically, when it needs something from them, the municipalities have some options, and if we want to separate the government from the public administration, let's do it consistently. [[Time!]] It's consistent, not with the salami method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u56	Thank you, and now the chairman of the Cogan Club. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u57	Hello. It already seemed like this was really going to be a substantive debate, but a colleague, through the President, once again, is going to shoot something unsubstantiated - "the mayors think." It's the accusations, the accusations of breaking the law. I've been the mayor of the ORP since 2002, and I'm just insulted by the way you just accuse me of thinking something. No, we follow the law. If that's what you think and you know some colleagues, you can name them specifically who's breaking the law. [[11.50 hours]] But it's about - I have to follow up on my colleague Adamec, he said it exactly - it's about the overall system. Be here as a centralized state system is completely separate. We, of course, feel more strongly about decentralization, which means that the service is as close as possible to a particular person as possible and that it is essentially carried out there. The fact that the central model, which was needed through the district authorities, was significantly inefficient from the point of view of the performance of the work, as if from the supervision of those possibilities, means that, overall, the citizens, before they got to the decision, were significantly longer, I think that the twenty years proved quite undoubtedly. I don't know if you remember how the county authorities worked, but it was very weak, the performance of the delegation. I think that the ORP system has brought closer public administration to citizens and increased efficiency in relation to the final decision. This means that a citizen has reached the right of a decision earlier and closer together, and that is right for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u58	Thank you for keeping time. Now Minister Ivan Bartoš with a factual view. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u59	I just wanted to react. Yes, we're talking about an existing, perhaps for a Member, through you, an existing model of government. The debate, whether this model is correct in all his cases, is probably legitimate, but we don't have ambition through one law that has such a big impact and the Ministry of the Interior said that the result is uncertain and questionable, that it has a factual benefit, so to test whether it would benefit us, at the same time, when there are other processes under it, digitalization and so on, so how would we evaluate what would speed it up? Digitization, which one is it obvious? Or a system change where the result is uncertain and would be debatable? That's what I think is simply not part of the debate about the specific law. Of course, I would also be very careful, based on some empirical experience, to push someone who thinks and what their conclusion is from a simple example. I had the opportunity to look at studies of the effectiveness of authorities in cities that have territorial breakdowns and do not have territorial breakdowns - Olomouc, didn't I, and about the statute, but then we looked at what processes it is. For example, a relatively complex process slows down constitutionally, it only slows down by being papery and that the person at the office is not representative, so the moment you run out of paper, you can't take stock because you don't have a stamp from the person who allows you to. And you would think that the office's service doesn't work there, but at this specific moment, it's just a process of functioning the office where a paper clip can be a triviality. I wouldn't really jump to conclusions from a forum. And one last thing. When we talk about the debate, it depends whether at least any comments are incorporated. And what happened to the government's construction bill? The whole time was discussed and eventually the Minister came with his colleagues KSČM and SPD and swept the whole discussion, ran over, put the original proposal there... and he voted. [[Time.]] So it's not the form we'd like to proceed with. [[The President: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u60	Now, Mr Lukáš Vlček, and so far with the last fact, Mrs Peštová can prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u61	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I will no longer comment on any subsoil that affects and does not affect whom, which is really not my place. I think it's nonsense, and that's why I don't want to comment. In general, the debate is really about how we want the state administration to look at all. So if we want to completely dismantle the transferred performance of the state administration, the combined model, because this proposal is really just a one-off, but then we have to ask ourselves how we want the general government and its performance to work in the territory. Through Madam President, I would like to commend my colleague Peštová. She mentioned here the question of the new waste law, which applies from 1. 1st year last year. I think we needed the law, the law was communicated well, there were a number of comments. I would like to thank you for the way the Ministry of Environment has approached this department in the past. But with the new construction law, it really wasn't at all, but it wasn't at all. The comments that were so were really swept off the table from the vast majority. Through Madam President, a response to my colleague Vilímca. I can imagine that this office is going to be there, just as we could imagine that when the financial authorities, the employment authorities, the centralization system, the municipalities as such were being disrupted in the territory, in order to maintain the availability of services to citizens, in the finals they agreed to do so in such a way that they provided free space to the state office, they pay all the operating costs. So I can imagine, because when it comes to the availability of state administration in the territory, we've just been pushed into some things. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u62	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Berenika Peštová, with a final factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u63	I would like to respond to the honourable Member. I'm sorry, I don't have all your last names in my head yet. I didn't think that all mayors were who they were. I just said that I was based on my own experience, what I had to deal with. But let's just say it out loud. How many people and officials do you know who will find the courage to complain? How many are there? How many of these officials are gonna go and say, "The mayor came to me and told me if it wasn't how it was supposed to be, so I lost my bonus?" How many are there? There aren't many, there aren't many. And those who find the courage, you want me to tell you their names here? Forget it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u64	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Bureš. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u65	Response to Mrs Peštová. I don't suppose she ever worked as mayor in self-government. Please, my colleague... [[Let's hear it for the cops.]] ... through Madam President, the Mayor does not decide on the bonuses of any official. It shall decide only on the Secretary of the City Office or the City Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u66	Yes. Thank you. Minister Ivan Bartoš, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u67	I just wanted to, not to lighten up, but I introduced the city of Olomouc in connection with the fact that we were discussing whether the city's division is more efficient than the city, or the status quo, which is not divided, and then I set an example with the paper clip. She doesn't connect with the city of Olomouc, so I just wanted to say hello to my colleagues in Olomouc Region and Olomouc, that I was just pointing out how I got there, and then some particular example that, of course, doesn't come out of the study, and doesn't tie up with the city of Olomouc. [[The study?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u68	Thank you. Other factual developments have emerged. Mrs Peštová, then Mr Vít Vomáčka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u69	I would like to respond to Mr Bureš. I've been a deputy for eight years. Yeah, I've never been mayor or deputy mayor, but I know that secretary gets a budget of money that serves state employees. And who's he getting them from? From the city council.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u70	Thank you for keeping time. Please, Mr. Vomáčka, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u71	Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, fellow Members, I think it is high time we calmed our emotions. And after what the former Deputy Minister has done here, through the President, I'm not surprised those mayors didn't want to talk to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u72	Again, this raised a factual point by Mrs Peštová, Mrs Berenika. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u73	Mr President, through Madam President, I did not say that the mayors were not speaking to me. I've been communicating with the mayor, and quite intensely. You heard the commendation for the waste laws, didn't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u74	Again, Mr Vomáčka, Mr Vomáčka, de facto. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u75	Through Madam President, have you heard my call, have you listened to it? I asked you to calm your emotions here. And what you're doing here with that gesture... and you hit the table, with a loud voice on your coworkers, I'm not surprised those mayors don't want to talk to you. That's all. Please, let's calm down. Let's have some business, and I suggest we end this, even if I'm not the President. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u76	I will now recapitulate that the President of Radim Fiala Club and then Vice-President of the House Jan Skopeček. Mr Radim Fiala should have the floor, who is now next, but I do not see him in the hall, so the application is forfeit. Mr. Vice-President Skopeček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u77	Thank you. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. I don't want to get into a dispute between the government, the government, the mayors and the civil servants, as the debate has dominated here. I would like to turn my attention to what should really be the purpose of the new building law or the amendment of the legislation, and I would really like to appeal to everyone, whether conflicts and dichotomy between state administration and self-government take place some other time within other blocks, because when we look at what we have to deal with with this law, they are really burning things. It's been said here - according to the World Bank, I've looked at the last numbers, we're 157. in the list of 186 countries with regard to the complexity of building permits. In the OECD countries, the world's most advanced countries, we are even the last, 34 out of 34, which, in my view, should really lead us to rational negotiations, rational debate, rational preparation and approval of this law. It is not only important that we improve in any rankings, it is probably not self-effective. But when you look at the data on how real estate prices are growing in the Czech Republic, I think we all need to remember and realize the importance of this standard. I have just seen, just now, the European Union, the European Statistical Office, has published a comparison of price increases in real estate. By comparing the third quarter of 2021 with 2010, real estate prices in the Czech Republic increased by 100 percent. This means that we are one of the countries where price developments are really one of the highest. Only Austria, Lithuania, Hungary, Estonia and Luxembourg are ahead of us. I will just say that the average of the European Union in terms of price increases when compared to the third quarter of 2021 and 2010, is 40 per cent. Average 40 percent within the EU, we 100% increase over this period. So I think if we want to do something about real estate prices, like new houses, apartments, but of course it's spilling over into rent prices, we really have to - and the only cure I see in increasing the supply of new housing, and we're really not going to do that in this country or we're not going to do that if we have such a difficult building process. I think that not only that, although this is the most important objective, we increase the availability of housing, so let us remember that construction as an important sector of the economy, which, of course, is not as big as the service sector or the industry sector, but is still involved in the gross added value in the Czech Republic of 6%, employs a lot of labour, so that this sector of the economy works well and contributes to the overall good economic development of the Czech Republic, as well as simplifying building legislation as such. I am not talking about the fact that, of course, we need to build an important infrastructure in the Czech Republic, whether we are talking about high-speed railways and motorways and so on, which will certainly add to the growth of the economy in terms of constructions, contracts themselves, but also in terms of simplifying transport. After all, when I mentioned real estate prices, this law can also help what we are fighting and what we are talking about, namely high inflation, and help cool down the overheated real estate market, from which the Czech National Bank is very concerned. And when you look at her financial stability reports, it's the development of real estate prices that has an impact on how the volume of mortgages provided is developing, which makes sense that the more the property gets expensive, the more people need higher mortgage volumes. Of course, the more commercial banks lend on mortgages, the greater the risk of default or default credit. So, in terms of both financial stability and the reduction in inflation, we need to increase the supply of real estate in order to promote construction in the Czech Republic. Because, as I say, this is not only about what is definitely the most important thing, that is, to increase the availability of housing for specific people, for specific families, but also to contribute to the inflating of bubbles in the financial world, to the growth of financial imbalances and financial risks. So I would ask very much that this be the purpose of our efforts here in the Chamber of Deputies in discussing this law, so that it does not really turn out only in the battle of mayors and representatives of the state administration, but that we all remember that we need to dramatically liberalize the building regulations in the Czech Republic from this title so that we, our children, can get ownership in the future. So it wouldn't just be for a handful of chosen ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u78	Thank you, too. Beautiful morning, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I have taken over the management of the meeting. This was the last one registered with priority rights, so we are now entering into a general debate and I would ask Mrs Klára Dostálová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u79	Madam President, fellow Members, Minister, thank you for giving me the floor. I didn't deliberately sign up for factual remarks, because of course they're two-minute performances. However, I took notes because I guess no one is kept secret that for the last four years I have dealt very intensively with building law in the Czech Republic. By the time I get to the very proposal that we have on the table today, let me just respond to a few previous speakers who have made factual remarks. I would probably start, by your means, Madam President, with Mr Bureš. You really need to study the way it was. Because the government approved exactly the model on which we agreed with the mayor because there was an agreement with the Union of Cities and Municipalities at the level of the Prime Minister. This is how the government accepted the proposal, which means we had the first instance in the municipalities and then followed the state construction administration - and what a surprise it was for me when the Union of Towns and Municipalities rejected this agreement in the finals. This is what happened when the government approved what we agreed, as I agreed with you, but of course it opened the room for debate in the Chamber of Deputies, where, unless the Union of Cities and Communities confirmed the agreement, of course the door opened to set it up according to a material intention which you know was different. And that, of course, was taken up by colleagues from other parties. When we were debating that it just really got it, that there wasn't a majority here for the will to pass the construction law, I was just... if we are aware: the building bill has been passed by 106 Members, the same number of Members as the trust of today's government. So I wouldn't be talking about it having no support in the Chamber of Deputies. What I would like to say is that I am really ready and I look forward to the debate that we will lead to the construction law, because, of course, it is crucial to discuss the processes there. I am also very glad that colleagues from the new government, whether Minister Bartoš or Minister Kupka, say that the processes are set correctly, that we do not intend to change anything about this, that alpha omega is the institutional model, and the debate has actually come down here at the very beginning. I would just like to remind you that, of course, by discussing the law for so long, we were really in very close contact with the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Administrative Court rightly said that there was a mistake at the beginning, already in 2000, that the building law should never have been inserted into the connected model, simply that it should not have happened. [[12.10 hours]] And if you look at it completely unbiasedly, the courts are judging by systemic bias, and we can't pretend like it's some kind of bloated problem. Because if we're talking about really wanting to speed up here, then systemic bias is clearly an obstructive tool. If we don't solve it, the problem will still be here in the future. Anyone who wants to delay will object to systemic bias. And believe me, I've dealt with this very often, and now Minister Bartoš will deal with it, because you have to decide at the level of the Ministry whether or not that systemic bias is there. If you say yes, you have to decide which other construction office will do it for the original construction office again, and that is a matter of nine months to 12 months. That's the obstructive tool that he's really gonna have to do something about. Furthermore, I would like to comment on the fact that there is talk here that the mayors are - of course, that is their main incentive - to keep it in the territory. So here either it's the ignorance of the new construction law, because of course the availability of the office is there, it's just in the new construction law as a territorial workplace. But there was never any idea that the construction authorities would disappear from the territory, only it would be the territorial workplace of the regional civil engineering administration. Another thing that we have touched on here in the context of factual remarks was the financing of the delegation. It has to be said that the State pays about 4 billion per year for the implementation of the delegation in the area of urban planning and construction regulations for municipalities. But I just want to say that it's a contribution to the administration's performance. Post! That means, it was never meant that the state would pay for complete performance. And if the municipalities have the responsibility to do so, they're always involved. And that then raises the problems that she has been talking about, through you, Madam President, Mrs Peštová. Well, what I liked is that Minister Bartoš has set an example here - on a completely different field of competence, the Olomouc Region - that there is a problem with the representativeness of officials. Well, that's a problem with building law. That is why institutional change was actually one of the fundamental moments for people to be representative. Today we have over 700 construction offices at community level. Those people are in one, two municipalities, there's one, two people tops. These people are irreplaceable. So if we say in one breath that we will speed up the construction process in the Czech Republic, but at the same time we are not able to ensure that people at the offices are representative, then what happens? I was setting an example here, one or two years ago, when the law got into the House, that if a person at that one-headed or two-headed building office gets sick or has to take care of his child and so on, he's unrepresentable to anyone, and the building offices just put the signs for the disease closed and that's it. The builder has to wait for the real office to come back. Another problem to be irreplaceable is that if you look today - and anyone on your computer can now access the Jobs.cz server - you will see how everyone is trying terribly to get a civil servant into their spheres, whether it's at the level of the community or the state, and it's very complicated. We simply have power in the Czech Republic, people are irreplaceable, and we need to invent a system so that people can really help each other, and if someone gets sick in one community, the number of the proceedings and digitalization simply goes to another building office and always follow the deadlines. So much for the actual notes, I guess. I would really like to address the proposal that we have here today. The basic principle of the proposed proposal is therefore a change in the construction law. The new construction law will take effect on 1 July 2023, as originally planned, but only in relation to the so-called reserved constructions, i.e. constructions within the scope of the specialized appellate building office. The rest of the law, although formally effective, does not apply, in other words, to all other constructions, but not to all other construction laws, the old regulation still applies. So just to imagine what will happen really if we accept today's proposal - two laws will work for us in the field of construction law, one old for the so-called simple buildings and so on, that is, the usual family houses, but unfortunately also housing construction, and one new construction law that will implement reserved buildings, which are motorways, energy, water management buildings and so on. Furthermore, the proposal that the Supreme Building Office should be set up, but it will only be set up in an organisational manner, which means that its tasks will effectively be carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development, not by an independent office. And again, just to realize what will happen: MMR in today's form as it is, when I look at the old building law, when we had of course the first instance in the municipalities, the appeal authority, the regional authorities and so on, so will decide reviews for the first instance and the appeal authorities of the MMR, but also according to the new building law, according to today's change, will function as the Supreme Building Office for the specialized one. Well, then I wonder what kind of tension is going to be within the Ministry of Regional Development and what the courts will do if, of course, this is attacked. I consider the biggest weakness of the proposal to be the fact that the proposal does not effectively shift the effectiveness of a part of the new construction law, but only introduces the use of most processes that it considers to be taking place, whether through planning or authorisation processes. I think it doesn't exactly cause a smile on the lip of cities, which, for example, the new building law has put its own construction regulations in wine, whether Prague or Brno or Ostrava are definitely going to do this, but because today this change is on the table, it is actually moving it all back a little bit further, which, of course, the cities do not like to carry. As I have already said, the new building bill would only be used in the case of the adoption of this parliamentary proposal for reserved buildings and buildings related to them or forming a set of buildings. Again, those reserved buildings, if you look into the law, I think it's annex 4, so there's no housing. This means that today's decision in the housing crisis has been decided that we do not actually want to deal with the housing crisis as much as we do, because it is not even in dedicated constructions, which means that even housing construction returns to the first instance and there is this bambilon of obstructive tools, the non-replaceability of officials, systemic bias and so on and so on. It is certainly a pity, because I am convinced that partial modifications to the new construction law can take place, but that we should not approve the postponement of efficiency, that we should really move forward with the skeleton on which we are going to build, so that we can build faster - I said so here as well as during my speech to the government's programming statement - also during the Prime Minister's reign of Fiala. Because if we delay the effectiveness of the building bill, there's gonna be some big change going on, it's really opening Pandořina's locker, it's not gonna be easy closing the box. They will have to run interministerials, I really know what I'm talking about, and I think a four-year term will not be enough for that, and the Czech Republic will just drop the horror of 157th place in front of it. Maybe when I touch the exact 157th place, I need to know what project the World Trade Bank was building on. It was on the industrial grounds, the industrial hall. And if you have a new construction law, you know that the industrial hall isn't one of the reserved buildings. That means we're putting it back, this kind of construction, and we're still going to be in 157th place, because if we speed things up, it's going to be reserved constructions, it's going to be highways and so on and so on, but certainly not industrial areas. On the other hand, I have to say fairly that by wanting to stick to the processes that we have done in the new building law, it will, of course, make the proceedings more effective. But once again, if there isn't a solution to the irreplaceability and so on, the systemic bias, there will still be many obstructive tools in these buildings - flats, industrial areas. [[12.20 hours]] I believe that the situation where the new building law will be effective, but most of the processes, including those newly initiated, will take place in accordance with existing legislation, can cause confusion and legal uncertainty, which will lead to an extension of the processes as such. Here again, I'm referring to the fact that basically two building laws will work for us in practice. This may result in the exact opposite of what was intended by the new construction law and the amendment, i.e. the processes to accelerate and simplify. Especially in relation to Law No. 284/2021 Coll., which is a change law, can be said that the processes will be most complicated for the authorities as well as for the builders. Such a condition cannot be considered to be correct, and the question arises, therefore, whether this procedure is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, especially if it is possible by law to establish an obligation to follow an already ineffective law, and the law which replaces it is fully effective. For this reason, if we really continue on this point, it is certainly necessary that, after first reading, not only the relevant Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development or the Economic Committee, but also the constitutionally-legal committee, because I really have doubts as to whether the constitutional order of the Czech Republic is respected here. We all know, and we all had it in election programs, all of us, that we need a new building bill, that it will help start the economy in crisis. The new building law does not concern - and now I apologize for it - the mayors, the municipalities, it concerns millions of people in the Czech Republic. The average price of the new apartment in Prague has already climbed to CZK 7.5 million and - it was right here - it continues to grow. I agree with the Minister that only the new building law will not solve housing construction, that, of course, there is a number of tools needed, but the alpha omega is indeed in the acceleration of construction. However, it must also be admitted that we are actually a new building law, because it came into effect last summer, for example, they removed 15-year-old closures, which paradoxically will help large cities in particular to move the sale of land or some debate on planning contracts with developers and so on and so on. Of course, by not building apartments, we don't build highways. We've done a lot of examples here over the past few years. But, luckily, even the new government doesn't want to postpone the bill as a whole, but only dedicated buildings, which are mainly highways, want to put the process further, so I believe that it will improve, because according to the old construction law preparation only motorways and approval processes were actually running for thirteen years and more. And of course, it is very important that these processes improve. As far as the economy of the country is concerned, and this is documented, if you study the RIA as well, which is actually an economic assessment of the impact of the law on the Czech economy, we know that we are losing roughly CZK 7.1 billion by slow approval of the buildings. And we must do everything we can to start the Czech economy as soon as possible. In short, I will really try briefly to see what the principle of the reform standard presented is, in fact, the acceleration of the building procedure, the removal of the rampant administration accompanying it, and ensuring compliance with the deadlines by the state. When we set these three goals, of course, we looked for ways to do them, and we had to consider the form of the law very carefully in order to balance private and public interests. I must say that, of course, we had thousands of comments at the Ministry of Regional Development. We've managed to deal with it, we've made compromise agreements there, so I think the government has actually approved a balanced standard. We dealt with all the comments so that we could really get the highway network, strategic buildings and flats started as quickly as possible. But we never wanted to go the only way that the state would take care of itself. We always cared about people getting to the speedy construction process. And when the building bill was being discussed, I had mountains here, literally mountains of letters and e-mails from people who just wanted to build a family home. They didn't want anything else, and these people desperately texted me that they had a mortgage negotiated, all approved, but the building permit is not in sight. This is also another one of the moments, because people wrote to me that the Czech Republic is small, that, for example, other rules of the game for building procedures have in the Moravian-Silesian Region and other rules of the game in the South Bohemia Region. And that was one of those moments why we wanted the Supreme Building Authority to be a unified methodical leadership to all corners of our beautiful homeland. Because if this is, like last time or earlier under the old construction law, it is also necessary to realize that we also have administrative rules here, that means that the Ministry of Regional Development is the superior body of the regional authorities, the regional authorities are the superior bodies of the municipalities. It is never possible for the Ministry to direct any methodological instructions to the community level. The hierarchy is just here, and it really made a big deal out of it in the finals. When we talked about the problems, whether at the level of citizens or at the level of the state, for example, we discussed very intensively with the Road and Motorway Directorate as the highest representative of the investor for the Czech Republic in building authorisation. And that's where we got to the fact that the biggest problem with big buildings is the stamps, the authorities concerned. Because when our colleagues showed us what they had to do only for the phase of the zoning process, then they followed the phase of the building permit, and they had to again and again get those over 200 stamps for one construction, so it really was running endless, because the stamps were limited for some time, and when they finally got the last stamp, they found that the first thirty didn't pay them again, and it went from the beginning, because of course they had to collect all the stamps. I then had an example of such a closer project than the highway, and it was a construction of student tracks, where only for the construction of student dorms it was necessary to obtain about 47 stamps. And just so you know, those college dorms aren't still standing today because building permits are still being dealt with. The problem of current or previous construction legislation is the fragmentation of regulations and construction offices. As I have already mentioned, we have just over 700 construction offices at community level, then we have over 600 special construction offices, military construction offices and so on. There are over 1,300 separate construction offices in the Czech Republic. Over 13,000 people work on these 1,300 separate construction offices, but these 13,000 people are irreplaceable among themselves. They just can't help it. We really have an army of civil servants for building rights, and the goal of the standard was for these people to work together to help each other. What we're going to say is, in one region there's more of a public area, in the other, more of a road infrastructure and so on, and those people have to communicate with each other. By going into the vision of the integration of the organs concerned just under the construction office, it was easy. Why does our fellow citizen who wants to deal with the construction process have 13 steam project documentation and orbit the various authorities concerned as a lunatic? Why shouldn't he just come to the building office and say, "I want to build this, and the building office will handle all the permits for it, because it's gonna be colleagues sitting at the same construction office?" Anyone who's ever built anything knows that there are different requirements for conservationists, other police, other hygiene, other firemen. One of them will tell you that this floor is, and the other will say that this floor isn't, because it doesn't suit those and those regulations. The others will tell you that the elevator will never let you in because of the memory, but the firemen will tell you it can't be from the outside, we have to have a safe entrance there. And this is what the investor himself has been dealing with until now. He simply had several dozen project documentation and edited it to get the poor man's stamp according to the requirements of the institution concerned. What kind of surprise as part of the housewarming at the construction office when it actually turned out what the final construction looks like without everyone knowing in advance? [[12.30 hours]] Therefore, the integration of the authorities concerned into the construction office, and I must say that here we were clearly in agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which also sees this as a very good achievement in order to really integrate the authorities concerned and that construction worker had one office. One office where he'll come and communicate with them what needs to be done. Of course, some of the institutions concerned remained unintegrated during the debate, but I was very happy to be of interest to the various ministers, such as the Minister of Culture, and I assume that there will of course be further debate when, of course, we recognised that there are types of projects that deserve further assessment - such as reservations, UNESCO monuments, national cultural monuments, there was no debate on this. And the great acknowledgment of the Ministry of Culture was just about the fact that this type of construction really needs to remain specially assessed, which means that it remains a binding position. But, for example, the other activities in the area of monuments would already be integrated under the construction office. It was the same with the environment. The resort's immense helpfulness, but we also agreed that they are really specially protected territories and must be in the interest of all of us so that no mischief can ever happen there. That is why, of course, the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency has remained on its own in specially protected areas, it will obviously have to be a separate statement or a binding position so that there is really no harm done in national parks and similar important territories. Over time, we have implemented the so-called approval fiction, a binding position. This means that if the institution concerned does not express itself at a certain time, it is considered to agree. However, by integrating the new building law, of course, the authorities involved, the binding positions with the fiction will actually fall significantly. They're really just gonna stay with the landlords, the firemen, or the environment. There are, of course, separate paragraphs for the environment as far as the EIA is concerned, and so on. It is true, then, that we have eliminated the number of stamps to the max. And I will really hope, and I will really be very careful to stay on this principle so that we can actually protect the most precious. Of course, more time is needed for this, and there is a need for a separate statement and so on, but in order for us to actually in those simpler buildings, in those ordinary buildings, to offer the builder with all the processes that are that within 30 days he will know how he is, whether he will get a building permit. Of course, the construction office can say that there are more people involved and it needs 60 days, all of which the law thinks about. The basic memento of the whole new construction law was that the state must comply with the deadlines. I've always used that sentence here, we all pay taxes, we all know how it is, there's just no way that if a citizen stays with the state for a few days, the state will measure the fine. [[That's]] But when the state doesn't keep time to the citizens, nothing really happens, nothing happens. It's just that the citizen is patiently waiting for his turn to write an email or a letter to the relevant minister, so that someone can help him that the mortgages were tied up with good interest, and now they won't be able to prosecute it, and so on. Therefore, compliance with deadlines is absolutely essential. In fact, in these processes, when we look at how they're set up, we've been dealing with another significant moment, and that's the removal of ping-pong. Anyone who was building something knows that the first instance was in the village, there was an appeal, it got to the regional office and the regional office for some formal bullshit went back to the first instance, and this is how it went down for several years. This removal of ping-pong is also one of the crucial moments of the new building law, because we are introducing the so-called appeal principle. The appeal principle is that if there's an appeal to the first instance, the second instance has to take care of it. That means it doesn't go back to the first instance, but vice versa, in order to speed up the deadlines, of course, so it goes on like this. And here I'd just like to warn you that if there really are ideas that it won't be a pure civil engineering administration, that we're going to put the first instance back into that model to the level of municipalities and current regions, then I'd just like to point out that if the construction offices where there are two, three people, what happens when all these processes are preserved, as the law says, the new law talks about it? So we have an appeal principle. That means the first instance doesn't decide or appeal, it goes to the edge. I may have been there for you - just to imagine it - to take one particular region to see. [[He's showing the material.]] This is actually how the construction offices are divided, and this is the county office. There are two people, three people, one person, and so on, this is how the construction offices are divided, and ten people work at the county office. When all these principles are preserved, the building office, where there are two people, there will be an appeal, it will come to the edge - still remember that there are ten people on the edge - at the same time the appeal principle cannot return to the settlement of the first instance, of course it has to deal with the project. Besides, we have measures in the new building law against the inactivity of the building office, because of course the problem is that there are two people there, one of them gets sick and just can't do the consequences of the disease, just because the municipalities are unemployable, so this should never be borne by the builder. That means measures against inactivity will move the project back to the level of the region - there are still ten people there. Even on that county, no one else can come to help, and it's still gonna take care of those ten people. So of course there will be a huge accumulation of work at the level of the region, because of course they will also review binding positions, appeals, measures against inactivity, and those ten people will probably not be able to cope with this in the given legal time, so if it actually happens this way, then those deadlines will not be prosecuted in the finals and will again be expected by the builder. Perhaps we could also look at how individual construction companies view it here. I must say that, for example, CEC Research itself has carried out a very intensive survey between 103 construction companies, and these, of course, are the most difficult of all to address the opinions of the authorities concerned, the complicated structure of the construction offices, the broad definition of the owners of the proceedings, the failure to comply with the time limits of the authorities or repeated appeals and judicial proceedings. These are all, however, problems that we knew about, because we have been communicating very intensively, and the new building law solves this. However, the public also perceives the urgent need for a change in the construction law. And I would really like us to face up to the public so that we do not just solve the problems of institutional, state versus self-government, but offer solutions for citizens, so that they, too, demand compliance with the deadlines of the state, and that this is really correct with our fellow citizens. When we talk about the implications of the new building bill, I must say that the Ministry of the Interior's analysis is constantly returning to play here. I would just like to draw everyone's attention, and especially the new Members, to really look into the proposals, because the interior analysis is counting on building offices, the territorial workplaces, to build again on green meadows. That's total nonsense. No one ever thought of it this way, on the contrary, the models were calculated that the state within the framework of the delegation is paying municipalities approximately CZK 4 billion today. The new model, the one model from the government, would go to about CZK 4.1 billion. That means, here you can see that these are actually completely odd arguments, because there will never be any new buildings. And I have to say -- and he's already said it here by one of the previous speakers -- that when I was debating with the mayor, as it would have been, everyone of course offered that the local authorities would like to leave where the current construction office is, so that nothing changes for the citizens at all. Of course, it will be very important to maintain the integration of the institutions concerned so that the State can actually defend its public interests within the building offices. We will certainly ensure that where the agreement with the relevant resorts - monuments, nature and landscape conservation agency, firefighters and so on - these agreements are maintained. [[12.40 hours]] As far as zoning is concerned, this is a separate chapter, which I would definitely like to stop by for a moment. That was a really intense debate. We have dealt very intensively with cities as part of territorial planning. So in the end, we actually agreed that the separate building regulations would remain at the level of the largest cities, because of course they have both staff and finance to do so. This means that the separate building regulations should be Prague, Brno and Ostrava. As far as the new construction law is concerned, the majority of municipal competences remain unchanged on the area planning section. This means self-government, the council decides on key issues. The acquisition, that is to say, ensuring the process of obtaining documentation, is carried out in a delegated capacity. We, when we were discussing this with the cities, really seriously considered that completely territorial planning would become a separate area, but of course there were problems in the fact that when you have something in your own jurisdiction, it is assumed that you will, of course, completely realize it with your own people for your own money. And here it turned out that there was no full unity within the Union of Towns and Municipalities, because, of course, the smaller municipalities said: well, no, we want to keep it as it is, that the State should contribute to the acquisition of territorial documentation and so on. However, it is certainly a path in the right direction for the future - zoning in a separate scope. But these points really need to be discussed very intensively. As regards the extension of the deadline for the validity of the old zoning plans, they moved up to 2028 by the new construction law, which, of course, welcomed Prague in particular. There's already been a multiple extension of those deadlines. And, of course, this concerns territorial plans issued before 1. 1. 2007. This means that the zoning plans will actually be completed according to the existing regulations, so I believe that it will simply not jeopardise any activities in the area. The representative may, of course, cancel the old zoning plans. Similarly, regulatory plans and so on are being cancelled today. We also discussed how to discuss a territorial study, which is a condition for decision making. The representative also received a new construction law, and of course they called the officials of the government to have some deadlines in the area of spatial planning. As regards the public consultation of the territorial planning documentation, the equivalent - actually explicitly stated in the law that it is also a form of remote access. Of course, we were trying to make this public discussion, the joint discussion could be in one day, so that the processes would really make them more effective. The so-called National Geoportal of Territorial Planning will also be established, which means that all investors can really look at the zoning plan anywhere in the Czech Republic, so that there is a certain standard of what fields they see so that they can really compare the investment opportunities. As far as the closure is concerned, I have already mentioned here that according to the new construction law, of course, the construction closures, which were 15 years old and more old, were abolished, which, of course, will unplug the territory, especially the most building closures in Prague, so I believe this will help. When we were talking about the possible issue of transferring the procurement of land planning documents into a separate remit, I must say that after a subsequent agreement, and I have already talked about it here, it remains as it is today, which means that the Authority has only the right to vote and that is to decide how the territory will develop. This is fully in line with the situation in other European countries, and I also see this as a key role of self-government in the process of spatial planning. The question remains, of course, how would we actually ensure that, when the smaller municipalities have, in particular, financing problems, that is, if we talk about territorial planning in a separate area, then we also have to talk about how it will be financed. There were even suggestions that the Oerpecs would do it for the smaller communities, but again for their own, that means that there would have to be some contracts, which the Oerpecs refused because they said: we are glad that we have our people on our own activities, we can't deal with these other things. There must have been some debate, and there were possibilities like flying buyers and so on. I believe that, in the context of preparing certain changes to the new construction law, this debate will also open up, that we will talk about how to really correctly and efficiently incorporate possible spatial planning within a separate scope, but again I say, so far there are just a lot of problems that need to be resolved. I already talked about it. The main problem, therefore, is the acquisition in the small municipalities, which means how it will be financed. Then, of course, it's very important when you have it in your own jurisdiction, so the state has to protect its public interests, which means how the processes will actually be set up there. Who, for example, will deal with contradictions? And that may not only be a contradiction between state and self-government, but actually, if it's in a separate jurisdiction, it's going to be two self-governments. And now, of course, someone will have to deal with the contradictions as such, not only between the two municipalities, but also with the authorities concerned and so on. An important point will then be to review the territorial planning documentation, how it will be, who will be involved, because if we just leave it to the courts, they probably wouldn't thank us very much because they would be totally overwhelmed. What is important in this separate scope is what actually remains within the scope of the zoning planning, which means the council decides on the acquisition, approves the assignment, selects the most appropriate variant, issues the planning documentation, approves the implementation reports, decides on the change, issues changes to the planning documentation. These are actually all things that are enshrined in the new building law, just as it was in the previous building law. On the other hand, the old building law is newly entrusted to the municipalities with the possibility of discussing the draft settlement of comments before submitting and deciding to merge the joint negotiations and the public consultation. Furthermore, other new competences were given to the municipalities, such as the right to comment on the definition of the built-up territory, the right to apply comments on the draft territorial measures, the possibility to issue the definition of the built-up territory, the approval of the municipality's applications for acquisition, the acquisition of territorial measures. I believe that when we were talking about the role that municipalities would actually play in the building permit process, we were talking at the very beginning about how the community would learn about the project plans if it was a pure state construction administration. And it was agreed that the municipalities had a choice, either the municipalities as the institution concerned, or the municipalities would always be parties to the proceedings, because today or under the old construction law, the municipalities were only parties to the proceedings in the phase of the territorial procedure, not in the construction permit phase. And by merging the territorial proceedings and the building permit, the municipalities have deduced, of course, that there is a much better option for them when they are always a party to the proceedings, because they will be in the course of the whole process of the building procedure as such. As for other things, which is probably good to mention in connection with the new construction law, it is certainly a regulation of substantive construction law. Thus, both the basic substantive legal requirements are amended directly in the construction law and in the details appropriate to the law so that they can be divorced in the next implementing regulation. The Supreme Building Authority is empowered to issue an implementing regulation, that is to say, a decree laying down detailed requirements for construction. They are also empowered to issue a regulation, they can also lay down detailed requirements for construction, three local authorities, as I have already mentioned, Prague, Brno and Ostrava. [[12.50 hours]] Compared to the current situation, when only the capital city of Prague has the authority to adjust its construction requirements, the designers will have to study three additional implementing regulations in addition to the state-wide decree, and these are, of course, the local authorities, which were added next to Prague. On the other hand, even if it may be a complication, I understand the requirement of large cities, where there are certain specifics, which, of course, need to be reflected in the development of their territory. Changes in project documentation are certainly also very important. It is in the context of institutional changes and procedural simplification of the authorisation of projects that reduces the number of types of project documentation to three basic types: documentation for the approval of the project, documentation for the implementation of the construction and documentation for the removal of the construction. I consider this to be very important, because the complexity of the project documentation was also one of the moments that investors complained about, that it was just too much that they really wanted documentation for the construction of the family house as a nuclear power plant. So we responded to all of this, and it's basically a more widespread form of documentation for territorial decision, i.e. There will be, of course, much simpler principles for the construction permit. We used to call it dúrka+. The documentation will be included in the electronic documentation register as part of the application for a project authorisation. This is because, of course, the new electronic documentation will be used by the construction office for debates with the competent authorities concerned, which will therefore be integrated in general under the construction office. This means that everyone will look at one project documentation from the beginning to the end, and if adjustments are needed, all actors on the building office will agree on these modifications and then, of course, a debate will be initiated with a potential investor. A fundamental change is also the obligation of the builder to prepare documentation for the implementation of the construction before it is discussed. This means that, of course, once he has a building permit, he must still have the implementation documentation so that the building office can, of course, keep track of whether the items for which he issued the building permit have been fulfilled. Such a large volume of activities is procedural law, authorisation, appeal and review. Within the framework of building authorisation, the current number of authorisation procedures is replaced by one procedure, which will allow the construction to be carried out. Furthermore, the new law sets unlimited time limits for the construction authorities, the authorities concerned and the appeal proceedings. The length of this decision, of course, concerns the type of construction. We divide buildings into simple buildings, reserved buildings, small buildings etc. For those simple buildings it is about 30 days plus the possibility of another 30 days based on the assessment of the construction office. For other buildings, where there are, of course, constructions of the affected EIA etc., this can be extended to up to 180 days. Within the framework of the construction procedure, the construction authority shall assess the conformity of the project with the planning documentation, the requirements of the law and their implementing decrees, the requirements of the authorities concerned resulting from the protection of public interests and infrastructure requirements. Subsequently, within the given time limits, the construction office will decide whether or not the construction will be allowed. It is precisely the appeal principle, when the appeal body will have to decide, that will not disproportionately stretch the time limits for the builder himself. The new building law therefore sets out a clear process, a fixed period of time when the building office receives an application with all the supporting documents, including documentation, the same status of all the parties and the construction office examines the intention in the proceedings once and issues an authorisation. It is also very important that, of course, by digitalizing the building process, that it will be really on the construction offices precisely because if the construction law remains as we have prepared it, then qualified experts at all levels will be able to assess the construction plan immediately and not that you will be able to come to the construction office and they will say: yes, here you are missing this, that and that. You fill it in, you come back in 30 days and they say, yeah, but you miss it here and that. And then you leave again and you refill again and you come back and they tell you more attachments. This construction law treats, that is, the builder may call for a supplement once on the basis of a written request and not that the builder will be sent this way from devil to devil. The creation of the Construction Man's Portal, through which the management will be conducted, is indeed the cornerstone of the digitization. All operations between the construction worker, the construction office, the authorities concerned, the owners of public transport or technical infrastructure shall be carried out electronically. The basic means of communication will be the integration platform of the building management and Portal builder. Instead of a paper application with dozens of annexes, confirmations and stamps, the builder will submit an electronic application. Of course, and here I agree with the Minister, not all of us are able to sit at home on the couch and, of course, make all communication with the Office electronically. But believe me, many renowned design firms, of course, are calling very much for this to actually make the communication with the competent authority electronically, but ordinary citizens will always be able to visit the construction office's local offices so that qualified officials at these local offices will always take care of them. By actually submitting an electronic request, so logically, when you imagine it, each application has a certain number of the project's reference or birth certificate as such, and the builder will be able to monitor during the whole process at what stage his building permit is, who says, what are the possible opinions, etc. It is very important that this will also be linked to the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning, which means, wherever the civil servant of the Building Office obviously connects it with the zoning plan so that people can actually save themselves so that many of these people can replace the technology. That's why when we were actually talking about it, and when I'm talking about it with the mayor, they said that when they read it, all the processes, they knew that if they had four people at the construction office today, for example, that two people would be more than enough in the future, because it's thanks to the systems... And here I am clearly telling my colleagues that the digitalisation must be conducted as a red thread through the whole process of the new construction law. On the other hand, when, of course, experts are looking at it and now they're recording the delay, any changes, they're obviously very legitimately asking how you can complete digitization when you don't even know what the building bill is going to look like. So here I am also glad that we agreed that we will go into these processes of change and really at least. If there is, of course, something to be dealt with, the institutional form is likely to be dealt with, because the digitalisation of the building process is bound by the European project. We have gained about 1.3 billion within the IROP, the National Recovery Plan has another 1.5 billion, so we really need to move these processes forward. This is where I think it would really be perfect for this to happen in 2023. On the other hand, if we start and actually do the two institutions again, that means self-government versus government, it's going to be very hard, because, of course, in that model, we assumed that they would compete centrally, whether systems, but also hardware for all the construction authorities united. If the municipalities themselves were to ensure this in the future, they would take the lead, and now I don't know how many construction offices could be left; I suppose, therefore, that they will actually eliminate themselves in some way, even if there were 300, 350, 400, so the idea that 400 separate competitions will take place to compete with the same technique as possible, etc., is really rather smiling than realistic. So I believe that there will also be a way to centrally compete for all construction agencies, so that the amenities are, for example, from the Supreme Building Office, so that the municipalities don't take care of it themselves. When I deal with the digitization of building management and planning, I must say that a huge amount of work has really been done here, and I am very glad that, for example, the Ministry of Regional Development has won the first prize within the framework - as the best project of eGovernment in 2021. The minister was even present at the handoff, so of course I am very pleased. [[13.00 hours]] But we also have to talk about the fact that it is not only the digitalisation of the building process itself, but it is also about the digitally technical maps. We're actually the law on surveying, Law No. 47/2020, they actually put digitally technical maps within the scope of the delegation into the gesture of regions, and now, of course, the question is how these things are dealt with. I have also discussed this with Mr Netolický, for example, that it would certainly be good to support some subsidy programme or in some way those municipalities so that really technical infrastructure can be uploaded into systems so that municipalities can have resources to map infrastructure so that systems can meet where they have them. At present, both preparatory and implementation work, preparing and running, running, running, several procurement procedures for procurement of IT systems and so on are under way in the process of digitising the construction process. I think it's probably just the most important ones for you. This means the Integration Platform for Building Management and the Construction Portal, the Information System for Records of Territorial and Construction Management and other procedures, the Information System for Electronic Communications Recording, the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning, the Information System for Building Management and the Information System for Digital Maps of Public Administration. I really have a lot of background here. I could talk here for a very long time to re-defend the idea of a new construction law and that we are going the right way. On the other hand, I don't want to deny the right of a new government to debate these matters. We're going to try, and here I want to promise, as a constructive opposition, because it's just - four years you have it as a child, and I certainly don't want to just flush it, as the people say, into the toilet, I'm very happy to be involved. On the other hand, I would like to propose a procedural proposal that we should face. It is not possible on your part to mean seriously that we will be constructively debating this, when we do not even have all the committees set up yet, not all the members are there, and believe that I myself would very much like to participate, whether in the Committee on Public Administration, in the Economic Committee, in a very constructive debate on the amendment of the Construction Act. I therefore wish to propose a procedural proposal for the suspension of this item to the March meeting, on the ground that the committees should first be allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u80	Thank you. I would need an exact date, Madame, to make the wording clear. So I'm gonna ask you to give me a specific date. At this point, I will engage, because there is an immediate vote on the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u81	It's Tuesday, March 1st.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u82	So, until March 1st, we're gonna stop the point. There's a motion to unsubscribe, I'll unsubscribe all of you. I'm gonna reengage. There is a procedural proposal to suspend the present paragraph until 1 March. I've already checked you out. Please sign up with the voting cards. At this point, I am opening the vote on the procedural proposal. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. I note that it was vote number 49, that 131 Members were registered, 81 for it, 50 against it. The motion was accepted. At this point, I must state - yes, Mr Farský?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u83	Madam President, I am very sorry, but as I was coming, I wanted to vote against it, but at the high point, I think I was in favour, so I am questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u84	So there's a motion to challenge the vote. We will vote on this proposal. At this point, I am opening the vote on questioning the vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. [[Screams from the O.R. and protesting voices.]] Yeah, okay. I am terminating the vote (50) and declare it confusing. There's a motion for a vote check. Before the vote is checked, I have received the apology I will read at this time. I have here an apology from Mrs Renata Zajíčková, today between 13.45 and 23.45 until the end of the working day, further I have here an apology from Dr Michael Kohajda, also for work reasons, from 12.15 to the end of the sitting day, further I have received an apology from Mr Aleš Dufek, from 12.15 to the end of the sitting day. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I'd like to ask for peace in the courtroom. Dear Members, honourable Members, I would like to ask for peace in the Chamber. I have two more excuses. I have here an apology from today's meeting from 12.15 to the end of the day from Mr Róbert Teleky. The last apology is from Mr David Šimek, today from twelve to the end of the day. I'm gonna ask if there's been a check-up? Yes, this is Mr Patrik Nacher reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but you've always trained us here in the last parliamentary term to question the vote. If I listened well, my colleague Farský said that he was catching up and pressed the button wrong. That's what he said, so let's wait for the log. So it should be that, after all, his will was that he was in favour, and suddenly he appeared against it, that's how it should be. That means whether or not he was catching up, he's completely irrelevant in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u86	Mr. Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u87	I thank my colleague Nacher. He's absolutely right. I wanted to vote no, but it just came out yes. That's it, thanks. [[Big noise in the hall. No!]] I voted no, I've got a yes on high, I'm questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u88	I'm still going to ask if I can get that piece of junk about the vote. Okay. There was an objection to the vote, to questioning the vote. We will vote on this proposal at the moment. I am opening the vote on questioning the vote. Who's in favour of the proposal, raise your hand and press the button. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Voting 51, 162 Members signed in for 108, against 4. The motion was accepted. [[13.10 hours]] This means that we will again vote on the procedural proposal that has been proposed here, and that is the interruption of the item until 1 March. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Thank you and I note that 162 Members signed in the vote 52, for 83, against 79. The motion was accepted. [[Report to the O.R., round of applause for a part of the Members.]] At this point, I must say that this proposal has been approved, and I am terminating the discussion of this point. I'm interrupting this point. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] So at this point, we're going to start discussing point 7, which is the Senate bill amending Act No. 247/1997 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of certain other laws, as amended, and Act No. 275/2012 Coll., on the election of the President of the Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, the Act on the election of the President of the Republic, as amended, House press, first reading. [[Strong noise in the hall, Members discussing in the crowds.]] At this point, I would ask all Members to keep their voices down! [[Almost no response.]] The President of the SPD's SPD movement Radim Fiala is here with priority rights, and I hereby give him the floor. [[Highly:]] And I will ask all Members: if you need to take care of anything, please go to the lobby of the Chamber. You guys, when you talk to that counter, you all want it to be quiet, too... Then I'll wait for the peace to come, and then I'll give the floor to the SPD chairman, Radim Fial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u89	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask mostly you, Madam President, to look around the hall when the club presidents report, because I applied before you started this point. I wanted to get to the fact that the point is totally unacceptable to us. We need to discuss how we will proceed from the perspective of the next negotiations. I'm asking you to take a break at the SPD club meeting for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u90	Okay. I have to decide on the break immediately, I can't give anybody any more words. [[Ambassador Okamura is demanding a performance.]] I, at this point, on request... May I? Okay. So Chairman Tomio Okamu... So please, I don't want to vote on the break. If the SPD has requested a recess here, I must immediately suspend the negotiations, and I am no longer to give my word to anyone else, okay? So at this point, based on the request of the SPD, I'm declaring a 50-minute break, which means I'm declaring a break... Vice-President Okamura wants a procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u91	I'm just sensing, Madam Vice-President, here's the important nuance that, as our chairman Radim Fiala said, he applied before opening that point, and that's an important nuance now, because after Radim Fiala's colleague has now been given the floor, you've actually opened that point by launching it. That means the nuance here is pretty important, because we wanted to take that break, which is why the chairman of our Radim Fiala club reported before opening this point. Not that I blame you, because there was a lot of confusion in the O.R., and there was a lot of movement, so of course there could have been some oversight, I get that. I was also in charge of the meeting, it could happen. But here we should approach it properly, because there really is a difference when the point was already open by opening it, and really the difference when it wasn't open at all, because our Chairman Radim Fiala wanted to take a break, applied and wanted to get off before, so here's the nuance. And I think it should be set to the right level, that we're taking that break. Of course it's okay, but I just have the procedural comment about the nuance. And otherwise, it's true that you should call that break immediately, so if no one talks to the procedure anymore, then the break should be announced immediately. But in line with what I'd like to ask for the correction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u92	I saw that the chairman of the ODS club, Marek Benda, is still applying for the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u93	Let's lose some emotion. First of all, whether the point is open or not, it doesn't make any sense at all from the point of view that we're quitting today. If it's relevant to you, you write it on your Facebook page, but otherwise it doesn't have any meaning for the House at all. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Secondly, now about what is going on around the Vice-President. Even after the request for a break, it is, of course, possible to give priority rights, it was common in the past, for example, to follow up further requests for breaks. It is not possible, of course, to allow any vote or other process in the House after the request for a break, but to give priority rights is possible. And thirdly, I think what happened here is a big foul. Big foul. All right, everyone has a right to him, but there's no way anyone's chasing him around, and it's gonna be a big doubt to me if the opposition officials are gonna sit on that umpir, if they want to train us this way, that we have to sit here 24 hours a day and listen to all that talk. Yeah? I'm just saying it and forwarding it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u94	Mr President of the SPD Parliamentary Club Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u95	Thank you for the floor. [[- I'm begging for peace.]] Madam President. I, in order to give this real seriousness, to report before opening this point, would like to raise an objection to the President's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u96	Yes, you have every right. There will be a vote on this proposal, okay? So here's the deal... [[Odds from the diaper.]] Okay. Yes. Because there's been a motion for a break, I'm at the moment, because today's meeting day isn't... The meeting day is no later than 21 o'clock, so at this point, I propose that all the presidents of the MPs come to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u97	Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, as President of today's meeting, I would like to apologise for overlooking Radim Fiala's priority right, which was already announced before the opening of paragraph 7. On the basis of what is now being said here, it has been made clear that I admit that I have overlooked that the break that the SPD wants has been requested before the opening of the point. That means point 7 wasn't open. At this point, I am declaring a break as announced by the SPD movement, thereby interrupting the 6th meeting until Tuesday, January 25th, at 14 o'clock. Have a nice day, have a nice and beautiful weekend. Mr. Okamura reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-14-ps2021-006-04-001-006.u98	And I will just add that the reason - political, I will add - why we want to interrupt it, that the SPD is fundamentally opposed to the correspondence choice. We do not agree with the introduction of correspondence elections in the Czech Republic, and I gave reasons in my speech, in which I spoke about trusting this government. Thank you.
