ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 395/2009 Sb., on significant market power in the sale of agricultural and food products and its misuse, as amended /German press 174/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We have finished our discussion by interrupting Mr Feranc, and I would just like to remind you that with factual remarks, if I have correctly noted, two Members, and this is Mr Mašek and Mr Strýček. But it wasn't until after, Mr. Ambassador, it was for your contribution, so you can finish your contribution. That was the reaction to your contribution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad what I've said has caused some reactions. I'm just - I'm not gonna repeat what I said...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u3	I'm gonna cut you off, and I'm gonna ask everyone in the room to keep their voice down. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u4	Thank you. I was just saying why the law was misspelled. I ended up with this classic legal cui bono, whose benefit it was written for. If we read it, then, of course, in favour of business chains. This is quite logical, by excluding some of the suppliers from protecting against their practices, it is in their favour. And we can assume that that's what they're gonna want to do business with the biggest. Then I ask: here it was said that it would help the little - well, I ask, how will it help the little ones? And if they are farmers or food farmers, how will they be helped? By increasing the administration? Or, in order not to get in trouble with this law, will customers stop taking away from them at all? I don't think that's gonna help them. I repeat again, support the motion to return, and repeat the reason: no evaluation of RIA regulation has been carried out. This will affect, I repeat, tens of thousands of entities in the supply chain, but ultimately it will affect 10 million citizens. Any malfunction in this will be reflected in the supply, so with this knowledge please proceed to the vote afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark before the interruption, Mr Mašek was registered, so I'm just asking if his application is valid? I don't see him here. Another person who was registered with the facts was Mr. Strýček, he is not here either. Let me just remind you that we are still in the general debate. I'm asking. Anyone else interested in getting off? Yes, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u6	I'd rather be a consumer. I don't think any of us live in a bubble here and go shopping in those chains regularly. At present, I don't know if you noticed it, but I, because before I left for Prague, I was shopping in one chain and I was quite struck by one thing, that for flour, which, of course, increased by 7 crowns within 14 days, which is terrible, from some 12 to almost 20 crowns per kilo, there was a beautiful table written where it was written that consumers could only take 10 kilos of flour and 10 liters of oil, and once they reached this amount, they would not be checked into the register. So this is one of the things we shouldn't forget and we should remember it here. And, of course, what was mentioned here about the chains, how they were involved... And with wonder, there was one thing -- here I see it's noise -- with wonder, there was one thing that those prices were the same in all the chains. They were in Penny, they were in Lidl, they were in Tesco, they were everywhere 19.90. Which kind of stopped me...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u7	I will interrupt you, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u8	... because I don't think these prices should be the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u9	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, and I'd like to ask the others if they could keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u10	And if I bring up the complexities of factual remarks here, I'd be happy to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u11	Thank you and you have raised a point of fact, Mr Ivan Adamec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u12	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. It happens, of course, in other cases, in the markets, like when they sell below the price of butter, there's also a limited number. But what you said about the prizes, it's an incentive for the Antimonopoly Office. I don't really think that the chains are treating their suppliers, subcontractors, and that they're taking advantage of a little of their monopoly position. And on the other hand, it has to be said that everyone who swears at the strings, but the other way around, everyone goes shopping for them. I think people here decide with their feet that they're just going to go to the market instead of going to a local businessman who always has a few crowns more expensive, but much more regional and better. And then on the one hand, let's not be surprised that strings, if we don't keep an eye on them, and what you said in my opinion, that's an incentive for the Antimonopoly Office, this. Let him act! Let him not only do public contracts, let him do in this case - in fact, the Antimonopoly Office was set up for these cases. I hope that the leadership of the Antimonopoly Office will listen to our actions and that it may be a good incentive to control them in the very chains you have been talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u13	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Kučera. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would just join my colleague, Mr Adamc, here. We share both the economic and agricultural committee, so we have a similar view of the world. I just really wanted to say that it is largely in the enforcement of law and law, and it is one thing to create new laws and new amendments, and then actually to be able to enforce them effectively. If those two things don't work hand in hand, this law will never work well. So there's a whole range of institutions that aren't completely or well involved in enforcing existing standards. So, yes, let's focus on making a high-quality law on significant market power for a) and b), and I put emphasis on that, let's focus on making this standard a high-quality one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u15	Thank you. We are in a general debate. Next up, Mrs. Oborná. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make a very brief comment on this press, because when I read the explanatory memorandum, it was according to the explanatory memorandum that the proposal was prepared in cooperation with the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In the case of an adjustment concerning commercial contracts and certain unfair commercial practices, the wording of the amendment to the Act came from the initiatives of supervisory authorities and professional associations, such as the Food Chamber of the Czech Republic or the Trade and Tourism Union. However, what the explanatory memorandum does not mention is that the first draft amendment of this law was prepared and submitted to the commentary proceedings in October 2019. Perhaps some of you will remember what kind of media storm the bill was instigating. Political suicide, says the union to the upcoming ban on discounts and actions! The poor will pay for it! The government's going to cut down on its electorate, the goods are going to get so expensive! It's just some headlines from the media at random. Of course, the criticism was not only about quantitative discounts, but also about the scope of the law, that is, who should or should not be affected, which products should be covered, whether the proposal corresponds to the directive, in which ways to go beyond the directive and so on. These disputes were not only between law-makers and professional associations, which are directly affected by the law, but also between the petitioner, who is the Ministry of Agriculture, and the co-president, who is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and the Office for the Protection of Competition, which is the supervisory authority here, and last but not least with the Legislative Council of the Government, which, as far as I am aware, has discussed the law at least three times with a request for change. This has made the legislative process much longer. As has already been said here, this is simply a very specific standard that affects many subjects, a number of diverse interests, and it is not easy to balance everything and to maintain what is required by the European directive. The result is, in fact, not an amendment to the original law, but actually a completely new law, which established new rules for a whole new circle of entities. Finally, I would like to add that I am very pleased that the veto has been heard here for the 90th time, because, by the fact that this is a very specific standard, I am glad that this law will be discussed properly, that we will have the opportunity to make amendments. So that's all for me, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u17	Thank you, Madame. Next for the debate is Mr Tureček. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, my fellow colleagues, I would again like to repeat some questions about the minister present. I would like to stress that my colleague Monika Oborna and I had about six questions during the previous point of the Plant Health Care Act, we were not answered. The Minister's presence in plenary is very rare. We have never received an answer to oral questioning before, so we do not have such a unique opportunity as today to ask him. So, of course, I don't want to go back to the Plant Health Care Act, but I have said here the basic question of why we are against the bill, and that is that the position of a number of companies operating in the agricultural and food chain will get worse. And I insist that the Minister confirm whether the the thesis is correct or, in his opinion, it is not right that he, on the contrary, will help all farmers, food professionals in this Republic to improve their position in an unequal fight against the trade chain. And once again, this is very important. Once again, I repeat the fundamental theory that we are on the verge of a food crisis across Europe, as a result of the war in Ukraine. It is further enhanced that, of course, at that point, the Ministry of Agriculture has come to the fore, which, in terms of importance, I would say, has been somewhat overlooked. Most of the time, the Minister of Health has spoken here over the past two years. [[13.10 hours]] So I really appeal, and I ask the Minister for the basic guarantee of all Members, but also to all farmers and food professionals, if he believes that this law will not be adopted, which was to be adopted in the first instance in the framework of Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, is now proposed to shorten the time limit, to deteriorate the position of a number of companies operating in the agricultural and food chain. And that's probably the first important question where I'd like to get an answer. In our view, of course, this bill will deteriorate and, if farmers and food professionals adopt an uneven position towards business chains, it will deepen and not only towards business chains. He will ultimately damage the citizens of the whole Czech Republic, there will be price increases, trade chain margins will grow, and of course the citizens' wallets will be emptying out. The second question was how is he prepared to accept I would say a historic challenge when he will chair the Council of Agriculture Ministers, when he will become a big boss not only of the Ministry of Agriculture, as we farmers use, "the great boss of Těšnov," but he will become the head of the entire common agricultural policy. How does it want to cope with this challenge in relation to the law or the directive, because the Council of Ministers has the opportunity to take the initiative to amend the relevant Directive No 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 633, specifically from 17 April, and it can initiate this practically as a result of the arrival of the food crisis throughout the European Union. So, Minister, I beg you to answer at least these two questions, when we did not get an answer to the previous questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u19	Thank you. The next one entered in the general debate is Mrs Balaštíková. Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u20	Well, hello again. For those colleagues who weren't here before, I was here talking about five years of work and working groups. And, please, the minutes from the individual meetings were in a copy at the Ministry of Agriculture, because it always had a verifier from the Ministry of Agriculture. So, Minister, I'm sure it's in your office, and I think we can trace it. If we really found a consensus and wanted - and here and actually a colleague Adamec, through Mr President, said that we should enforce some things, that some things are not working - then let's talk about how to do it so that the law, and Mr Kučera, through Mr President, also said that the law should be good, but this one that we are presenting is not, because he is not going to help the people for whom we have organized the groups and at round tables we have discussed it, is not really going to help them. So let's not just do this thing because the Union is forcing us to do some kind of transposition. On the other hand, when the first version of the law was discussed here in 2014, there were huge discussions and, of course, huge media advertising. And I already said, let's see who's paying for the commercial. These are the ones who mind the most, and they were the chains, so there was a huge media advertising against, and then the European Union itself told us that we had to do the law. It was in the responsibilities, and it was also based on what the economic society presented to the Economic and Social Committee of the European Parliament, so we were actually a leader at that moment. Minister Jurečka, a member of your party and your chairman, worked on the law at the time, so I think there's something to follow. So I don't see why we're still defending ourselves, we're talking about an empty law that doesn't solve anything, it doesn't help, and we clearly said that every law is actually regulation, every directive and regulation regulates something that doesn't work in the market or in civil life. And there were also members from the ODS who went there, so these are things that I can, of course, present from the minutes, but these are things that those people who were involved said, these aren't my fantasy or my designs. And I'd really like to say, "Let's do it differently, or we've been called after it, so let's really start doing it, and I don't have a problem with you being the bearer of the law, because it's a result for me. I was there listening to what those people were saying, what they needed, and I was surprised how much trouble it brought, how badly those relationships were hacked. I also said here that I don't want to throw strings into one bag, because some of me went to individual meetings, which I've always done at least in pairs, when they said themselves, "We're not able to deal with each other, we're destroying each other, and because we're destroying each other, then we're destroying the supplier. Yes, they acknowledged that this is not how they behave in their motherland. Then why are we still allowing it? They said so themselves, and they were also carriers who said: Limit promotions, because if the density of supermarkets in the Czech Republic is greater in the size of the area of the Czech Republic and population density than in Germany, then where is the purchasing capacity of the Czech population? And we're still allowing it. And you think a normal family eats more than ten rolls? Well, she's not dreaming, she's just gonna buy the rolls somewhere else. Where are they going to get married? They'll pick them up from the little shops. And actually, this behavior that we allow - and a colleague here is right - let's not go to the supermarkets, let's be aware. I, for example, go to private butchers, bakers, but I admit I'm going to supermarkets every now and then, it's comfortable, but if we don't motivate people to do that, we're not gonna adjust those relationships, our economy, our Treasury is gonna go down and we're all gonna go down with it. We're talking about the village, unless there's a pub, a church and a store, that village doesn't live. But I had a deputy mayor there who said, "Support us the village business, because we're gonna go bankrupt here." Not every grandmother can go to the supermarket. She's just going to the local store, and if she doesn't have it, where does she go? All this talk, let the young buy it for you - these people don't work like that. I'm a town girl who lives in a village for 20 years. I love living there, I'm glad we have a community like this, and I'm dealing with the mayor, if we can't keep the shop there, what are our old people gonna do? Yeah, there's a trucking store going down there, but where are we going with it? If we build a new supermarket, what happens? He's gonna take the sales for those little businessmen. And this is what we want for our people? I don't think so. And the mayors were also invited to those round tables, and they said to themselves, "Support us in some way to keep the stores there, let's do it to keep it, 'cause even the country store can't put a margin that big, 'cause these people won't buy it. I call it first aid stores, because he's trying to match the big supermarkets in town so that at least the product range is basic, but he's not able to keep it cost-effective. And if we don't start with the supermarkets in the cities, we won't even help each other in the villages, we won't help those old citizens there, and we won't help the mayors. So let's fix the law, let's fix the other laws to him, and of course I fought for it. Some have always accused me of doing this for the big ones, but let's say which tiny producer is able to deliver to the big chain? He'd be capable, but we'd have to redo it and force them to do what they did on Germany's territory, that every supermarket has to create a market for these little producers, because even the little ones were at those round tables. And I had to ask them, "Please, and you want to deliver an hour to lidl, or you can only do it for half an hour, because his little production isn't enough for the demands that the big giant needs. [[13.20 hours]] But I want them here because they're doing life in that village, they're doing a variety of things here, of course they're doing things with love, but if we don't start regulation, regulation through significant market power - and they have to start in cities - let's not be surprised that we're destroying shops in villages, that we don't have small shops in cities and that the little ones are falling. Because we're not going to help them by making sure they deliver to big chains, their production isn't enough. Often those people - and I really did, when I was a councilman in the Zlín Region, tried to support them financially - but they don't even have the resources to deal with advertising and marketing, and they brought it somewhere. I understand this isn't the way. And the ordinary mayor in the village has so much to worry about, so many things we want him to do, so at least let's help him. And I understand it's hard to decide how we're gonna do it, and everyone's calling for the money, but that's just the way it is, okay? That's it. And I'm talking about it here, because, of course, we can see what they're suggesting, what they're saying. I understand that the big supermarkets didn't like that we wanted to do regulation and we wanted to return life and business to small businesses. But those old people just don't drive. Now our PHM's up. How much are these tickets gonna cost? So the grandmothers and grandpas are gonna get there? Often these people have problems, really trouble getting to the doctor in town, and not yet going shopping somewhere and taking a bag of bus. So, please, let's just say what we're doing, what we're doing. And, of course, I have an emotional performance because it's emotional for me. I've talked to these people, I've seen the problems, and I don't want it to be like this. And not everyone lives in the city, maybe it's very comfortable in the city, okay? So I'd really like us to think about the law, fix it, and not let it go, like I said, in the cut version, because we're not gonna help anyone, we're just gonna make a point about the EU. For they themselves, their economic committee, said that each country should fix it, and we were, exceptionally, a leader in this law. Not bad, because they learned from us - and that's when I heard the defenses of those who didn't want it: Let's not get involved here, what will it do? But if something doesn't work, then we have to make sure it's fixed. I didn't invent it, and even the chains themselves said, "We got into the carousel, we can't stop it, and we don't want to serve everything in promotions. The Department of Agriculture has had a study done as we stand, and how did it turn out, Mr. Minister, through Mr. - I don't really have to come to you, but just in case - so how did it turn out? The density of supermarkets greater than in Germany and Germany also sells 80 percent of food across the chain, but beware only up to 20 percent in events. With us, 60 percent. And who do you think will pay for it? Well, suppliers! How is it possible that there is no increase in turnover, but there is an increase in chain profits? Well, because margins go up. Mr. Tomáš Prouza likes to use the Ministry of Finance's investigation into butter at the time when it was the butter crisis. Yes, the first study didn't go well, but unfortunately, the assignment was wrong. Then the second one followed, and there really turned out to be a different margin on the Czech butter, because the Czech supplier supplied 25 crowns of butter, German for 40, Irish even more. Butter came to the warehouse, where the price was averaged -- it's true that 20% of the margin was put on it -- but what happened? The entry price of Czech butter was completely different, so the Czech butter producer contributed to the final price, but he did not get paid as much as the Němec. [[Noise in the hall.]] And if we say that the production conditions are the same and that on average we produce these commodities in the EU at the same price, then what are we doing?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u21	I'd like some peace in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u22	I'm sorry, but I'm not quite healthy yet, so I don't want to yell like that. And... colleague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u23	Then I'll ask you all to calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u24	And what do we do? We liquidate our manufacturers, those who are supposed to send money to the Treasury over taxes, we liquidate the shops in the villages, and that's what we do. And if I were to recapture the outcome of the investigation into that economic company, at the end of the day, we would also be able to eliminate the first-age farmers in third countries. So that's it. Perhaps it would really be worth taking a deeper look at it. And I'm trying, Minister, to appeal to you because your ministry, along with the representatives of the Chamber of Deputies, has organized these events, and you have those transcripts in your copy. It's never happened to have your people's signatures missing on any entry - because the entries were made by the Department of Agriculture, and I know that those people are still there, and so that you wouldn't have the initial documents. Why didn't it happen? Why didn't this happen in the last House? I'm sorry, covid wiped everything out and everything else went away, which is why it didn't happen, which is why it didn't last. All I have to do is-- in short, and well, there were so many other concerns that this wasn't a priority. So, please, let's make this a priority, because people have been calling for it. And I never wanted the consumer to pay for it, but to contribute to various promotions from our suppliers who have a place at the promotion to send money to the Treasury, that should be our goal. And not this one we're doing. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u25	Thank you and with fact it has been signed up - withdraws it - Mr Kučera, Mr Adamec has then been entered into the debate, is that correct? [[Member Adamec off the microphone: Deal.]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u26	Dear Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond a little here to the emotional performance of Mrs Balaštíková, who is really devoted to this, it is obvious, and she has actually taken it all, as they say, from the bottom. I'm curious about the debates we're going to have in these committees when it comes back to plenary, where we're going to work. You know, the word regulation always raises a number of question marks, of course, a number of animosities, because when you regulate something, it's always the way that one side likes it, the regulation, the other side doesn't like it, because the regulation is affected, and I don't like the fact that we're distorting the market. And I say this quite frankly, although I understand that these chains can cause problems here, but I repeat myself once again: we Čech just go into chains for two reasons. It's in one place, and it's cheaper in those markets, which is why these people go there. When you go to Austria to any village, to any town, the Rakušan have their shops there and they go to their shops. I don't know who goes to those markets, which are on the outskirts of those towns and villages, and it works there. The only problem is that today even the Rakušan are subject to social pressure, the pursuit of cheapest food, and they're starting to go to the markets too. As far as village shops are concerned, the issue is much wider than any regulation on significant market power. I think - and I think it very seriously - that the village shops have killed the regulation that is called EET, it just is. And think of what you want, today in the villages, if there's a store - if she gets a subsidy from the Ministry of Trade and Industry, she's got a name for it, a village shop - well, someone will come and try to sell for a while, mostly our Czech Vietnamec, but when they come to the particular mayor, they say: Mayor, I want to shop and not pay. Don't pay. That's how the regulation of this type turned out. So let's take it that way. I don't know what we're gonna figure out here in a few weeks on the committees and then here in the plenary, and I'm not illusioning. I'm not illusions, it's a complicated subject, and any regulation is a big problem. I know that the agricultural committee has also adopted a resolution where it wants to control the margin of trade, which I think is also a problematic issue, because it is not such a simple matter and how to deal with it. And I'm saying again that I understand that there's pressure on those chains, but for me, the best pressure was on the citizens' education to go to their own stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u27	Thank you. With a factual point, Mrs Balaštíková is registered. I merely note that in less than a minute I will have to interrupt this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u28	Mr colleague, just for you, through Mr President: that request from mayors and small traders was there when the EET was not yet there, I do not think so. You're right, it's a broader subject, but it didn't kill them. And do you know what the little businessmen were calling for when the EET started? 'Cause I was one of those guys who maybe convinced them to do it, called me innkeepers and stuff, but I tried to convince them why it was good. And you know what they said? That they respect it, but they want it to apply to everyone. That's all they wanted - equality between them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u29	Madam, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt this point because we have a fixed point at 1:30. I still see President Benda with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u30	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a procedural decision as to what the next continuation will be. Now we have the voting points, but on behalf of coalition clubs, I propose that we - of course, when the votes are interrupted and the elections are made - meet at 16 a.m. today just to announce the results of the elections, that is to say, five minutes, which will be communicated to the President here, and it will really only be five minutes, and then we will continue this meeting on Friday at 9 a.m., because tomorrow we have an extraordinary meeting convened on the motion of the opposition. I assume that, as was said at the political grémium, another proposal from the opposition, which would like to have an interpelation tomorrow, will come out of the opposition, but given that this was a practice during the last parliamentary term, when you wanted an emergency meeting, it was on Thursday, that the interpelation did not come. So next time, the opposition needs to think about whether it wants to torment STAN and an emergency meeting or the government as a whole. So much for me. I suggest we cut the election until 4:00, then it's five minutes to announce the election results and then continue Friday at 9:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u31	Thank you. I see the registered President Schillerová here, who will certainly raise the counterproposal, as announced on the Grémium. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u32	Yes. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've called it a grémia, and I'll make a counterproposal. Let me make a brief comment first. I will quote Article 53 of the Constitution that each Member has the right to interpel the Government or its members in matters of their competence, and this is followed by Paragraph 111 of the Rules of Procedure, which states when oral interpelations are to be made, when time is to be allocated to them - on the specified day of the sitting, which is always between 14.30 and 18 pm and so on. We all know it. I understand we're getting you, you, you-- now I don't have to talk through, right? - because I'm talking to everyone - you, you, you, naughty opposition, you, you, you. Just if you want, naughty opposition, extraordinary meeting, you don't have an interpelation. Please note that I believe that this is a violation of the Constitution, at least by the Rules of Procedure. And I'm proposing that the meeting be adjourned until 14.30 tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-006-009.u33	Thank you, too. Since two procedural proposals have been made, I do not see any more submitted, we will vote immediately. First, I'm gonna call in my coworkers and colleagues from the lobby, and I'm gonna sign you all out because I'm registering that there's interest. So please sign up again with your cards. I will repeat the order in which we will vote on the proposals tabled. First of all, we will vote against the proposal put forward by President Schillerová, and that is the interruption of the meeting until tomorrow at 14.30 - that is, the meeting that is currently under way - and then, if necessary, we would vote on the original proposal by President Benda, who was to say that after today's 16 o'clock, when it is agreed from the Gremia that the election results will be announced, we will interrupt the negotiations until Friday 9 o'clock, and from that moment we will continue this meeting. I am opening the vote on the motion to adjourn until 14.30 on Thursday, tomorrow, which was delivered by President Schillerová. I said, who's in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 127, registered 175, for 80, against 85. The motion was denied. So now we will vote on President Benda's motion, and it is said that this meeting will be interrupted until Friday 9am after the election results are announced today. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 128, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 96, versus 78. The motion was accepted. Therefore, this meeting will not continue until Friday at 9 a.m. after we have finished the voting points, the election and the election announcement will take place at 4 p.m. We will therefore now proceed to the firmly assigned items of the programme, which are the electoral points. Starting point number
