ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Building Act /Departmental Printing 137/ - First Reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. And under the authority of the Government, this proposal will be made by the Vice-President of the Government for Digitalization and the Minister for Regional Development, Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. On the basis of the government's programming statement, in which we declared that we would amend the new building law and its effectiveness so that it could be ensured that a quick, transparent, digital and citizen close to the construction process through the construction work portal was prepared for the Ministry of Regional Development a government bill amending Act 283/2021 Coll., a construction law which we are launching today. The aim of this simple bill is to postpone the implementation of the system of state building administration in such a way as to avoid the effective creation of the Supreme Building Office and the regional construction offices. However, the aim of the bill is to maintain the establishment and fulfilment of a specialised building and appellate building office, which should start to exercise its competence from 1. 7. 2023. The subject matter of the bill is the introduction of the so-called transitional period, when from 1. 7. 2023 will be a specialized and appellate building office to allow reserved buildings listed in Annex 3 to the new construction law, namely the construction of a line of strategic importance already according to the process procedures of the new construction law. Other buildings, i.e. small buildings, simple ones and others will then be by 30. 6. 2024 to be authorised under existing legislation. As a result of the transitional period, sufficient time will be provided to change the structure of the construction offices planned by the institutional amendment to the construction law and sufficient time will be provided for the software and material equipment of municipal and regional authorities, where the planned institutional amendment will leave the authority of the building office. However, the proposed bill will also allow us to prepare and discuss in real time the already mentioned institutional amendment to the construction law in a real consensus with the municipalities and regions, with ministries whose interests have been suppressed and with the professional public. Our aim is to prevent the collapse of the construction process in the Czech Republic, the destruction of the connected model of public administration and the introduction of transparent digital management for citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u3	Thank you for the opening statement to the Minister. And I will now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Klára Dostálová, to take the floor, too. Let me also point out that the factual points that have come to my attention here are not going well, we are not yet having an open debate, so I am erasing them. And please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u4	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, then, to begin with, on the Government's bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll. The Government and the Ministry of Regional Development submit to the Chamber of Deputies a bill amending the construction law. It should be noted that the material did not go through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings or the Legislative Council of the Government. Only the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government has been issued on the basis of an exception. The proposed law does not disturb the new building code, only postpones the establishment of the building administration, and only partially. The new construction law will take effect on 1 July 2023, as originally planned, but only in relation to so-called reserved constructions, i.e. constructions within the scope of the specialised and appellate building office. The rest of the law, although it will largely be formally effective, does not apply...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u5	I understand completely, rapporteur. There's really a lot of noise in the room. Please transfer the discussions to the foyer. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u6	The rest of the law, although largely formally effective, does not apply. In other words, for all other buildings, but also for everything else that the construction law regulates, the previous regulation still applies, that is, the original law. As of day 1. 1. 2022, that means, that's the date that's already been made, to 1. 1. 2022 from the law was created a whole system of state building administration. This system is to be gradually implemented under the transitional provisions of the new construction law. The aim of this amendment is therefore to postpone the implementation of the civil engineering system by one year and to maintain the establishment of a Specialised and Appellate Building Office, the effectiveness of which is from 1. 7. 2023. The Specialised and Appellate Building Office will therefore be established, but not the regional construction offices. The Supreme Building Office will be set up only by organisation, its tasks will be effectively performed by the Ministry of Regional Development and will not really be an independent office. The proposal is merely a formal modification of the proposal of Members of Mr Bartoš, Mr Kupka, Mrs Kovářová, Mr Jakob, Mr Výborný and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 283/2022, Building Act. The proposal submitted has a similar content and purpose as that Member's bill. Only adjustments to the formal nature responding to the time-shift of the proposal are made. In fact, the proposal takes place not to shift the effectiveness of part of the new building law, but only to introduce the use of most of the processes under it, whether the process of planning or authorisation, that is, what everyone is waiting for, including large cities with their construction regulations, the acceleration of processes and so on. The new building law would apply only to reserved buildings, buildings related to them and constructions forming a set of buildings if the amendment was adopted. I believe that the situation where the new building law will be effective, but most of the processes, including the newly initiated ones, will take place in accordance with existing legislation, can cause legal uncertainty. This, moreover, was also pointed out by Minister Šalomoun as Chairman of the Government's Legislative Council in his opinion. Especially in relation to Law No. 284, that's the amendment law, that's the law that actually addresses the authorities concerned, those are the component laws, it can be said that the processes will be most complicated for the authorities, but also for the builders. Such a condition cannot be considered to be correct. There is also a question as to whether this procedure is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, especially if it is possible by law to establish an obligation to follow an already ineffective law, and the law which replaces it is fully effective whether this procedure is therefore in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, especially if it is possible by law to establish an obligation under an already ineffective law which replaces it, it should, in particular, assess the constitutionally-legal committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u7	I thank you, rapporteur, for your introductory words, and I am now opening up a general debate in which it is with priority rights... Okay, I have been informed that the rapporteur is now in favour of the debate, so the rapporteur and then Vice-President Havlíček. Mrs Klára Dostálová can therefore speak for the general debate now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u8	Thank you once more for the floor, not as rapporteur now, but I would like to express myself as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and, after all, as a former Minister for Regional Development. It is probably necessary to return to history a little bit, in order to remember why we have actually proceeded to such fundamental reforms of the construction law in the Czech Republic. After all, we were invited both by the European Commission and by the OECD, because, of course, the state of construction law in the Czech Republic was no longer unsustainable, and it should also be mentioned that the current construction law No. 183/2006 Sb. it has been changed by more than 25 amendments and is, of course, burdened and marked by the gradual increase in complexity, formalism, bureaucracy and so on, both in various types of authorisation processes, as well as in a huge number of authorities and institutions involved in authorisation and review, in particular through the decision-making of various construction offices in municipalities and regions, with very different levels of performance of state administration, the risk of their political influence on representatives of self-government, systemic bias and binding opinions, or stamps of dozens of types of authorities concerned. The result is complicated, intelligible and virtually all long-term critical state oriented to mutually conditioned formal processes before substance, which binds the potential of the Czech Republic's economic, cultural and social development and causes frustration to virtually all those who come into contact with permit processes in the construction industry. Even a number of NGOs, including environmental associations associated with the Green Circle platform, have already made public calls for fair, faster, better and easier building decisions in 2015. In this challenge, it literally states that "the current decision-making of constructions is often unbearable, causing losses to investors, and damaging the quality of the environment for people's lives. The authorities and the courts are making up for the wrong decisions. We consider complex and fragmented rules for decision-making on constructions and inadequacy of authorities and administrative courts to be the main cause of the intolerable state." In general, the World Bank's statement that the authorisation process in the Czech Republic is one of the slowest in the world is also known, according to the length of the standardised construction procedure, the Czech Republic has ranked 156th from 190 evaluated countries with a length of 246 days, and that is only read legal deadlines. A number of EU countries address the problem of the complexity of the legislation on construction law, the length of authorisation processes and the consistent fragmentation of the unification of authorisation regimes and the integration of the protection of component public interests into a single authorisation procedure conducted before the building office. There is virtually no other solution. For example, ten years ago, around half of the EU Member States joined the territorial and building process into a single authorisation process. Perhaps all Czech political parties in their programmes declare the need to change the current state of public building law and simplify and accelerate the authorisation processes. Even the current government in the programme statement of 7. 1. 2022 states in several places that the most important is the crucial acceleration of the construction process at the moment. At the same time, it states that it will try to change the construction law so that the construction authorities are preserved at local level. New Construction Act No. 283/2021 Coll. and related amendment law No 284/2021 Coll. has been approved after four years of intensive preparation and legislative work carried out by a broad expert team, comprising dozens of experts both outside and within the state administration. Since the 29th. 7. 2021 are part of the valid legal order of the Czech Republic. Some of the provisions of the new Construction Act have already taken effect on 30 July 2021, the next one being on 1 July 2021. 1. 2022 and as a whole should take effect 1. 7. 2023. The approved construction law in most of the provisions fulfilled the expectations that the professional and interest public, including the recommendations of the European Commission and, as I have already said, the OECD, of course fulfilling the wishes and petitions of citizens and even non-governmental organisations - that is, in particular, the real and fundamental deformification, unification, acceleration and simplification of the authorisation process, with the preservation of all public interests and rights of participants, and with the emphasis on the substance and weighting of conflicts of interest in the territory in the integrated management conducted before a single and uniform building office, the so-called concept of one office, one procedure, one stamp. [[9.20 hours]] The new building law brings in particular these positive changes. The first change that was was the establishment of a new uniform system of state building administration, following the model of cadastral offices and the abolition of municipal and special construction offices in municipal and regional authorities, the resolution of the problem of the disunity of the administration's performance and its political influence by elected representatives of the self-government. It is for these reasons that the courts very often judge systemic bias. The next point I would like to mention is precisely why there was actually a uniform structure of the state building administration - it was precisely the disunity of authorisation within the Czech regions. One and the same project were otherwise authorised in the region of Moravian-Silesian region and otherwise in the region of South Bohemia. This is due to the administrative order, because the hierarchy under the delegation is that the Ministry issues methodologies to regions and regions subsequently to municipalities. This hierarchy, of course, does not work very well with each other, the methodologies are not binding and according to this authorisation it also looks in the Czech Republic in the finals. Another important moment, which essentially brings about a new building law, is material law as such and procedural reform. Process reform is very important because it essentially repeals all the existing ten types of authorisation processes. Just to remind you that we know what types of processes we currently have in the Czech Republic and what we are trying to postpone for another year today. So the ten processes are: territorial management, territorial management with the EIA, common territorial and construction proceedings, common territorial and construction proceedings with the EIA, simplified territorial management, territorial consent, common territorial consent, consent to the implementation of the notified construction project, notification, building permit, public contract replacing the building permit. This is all being abolished by a new construction law, and there will be basically only one procedure. As I said before, the effort was before one office so that in the finals every builder would get only one stamp. As far as one permit is concerned, as I have already said, there is basically a replacement of the current amount of authorisation processes by one procedure that will allow the intention. Of course, it will be possible to use the accelerated procedure. That means the building office will issue the permit as the first act in the proceedings. Another very important part of the process reform is the inexhaustible deadlines. What almost everyone is complaining about - you have met this in the framework of the construction process - is that citizens complain about how it is possible that the state does not respect their deadlines. If we as citizens fail to meet the deadline in taxes, for example, we are immediately sanctioned. If the state in the building process fails to comply with the deadline, nothing happens. Of course, young people had this huge problem, for example, when they were looking for a mortgage, they wanted to build a family home, a mortgage was granted to them, a building permit nowhere, and, of course, they had to postpone the mortgage maturity for years to come. It was absolutely essential for us to deal with the very inexhaustible deadlines, that is, both for the construction authorities, for the authorities concerned and for the appeal proceedings. The issue of building permit is therefore within 30 days for simple constructions, within 60 days for other constructions, up to 120 days for constructions that have EIA. At the same time, construction authorities can extend the deadline by 30 or 60 days at their discretion so that they can actually lead the process with a particular construction worker. The same time limits shall apply to appeals. Other important elements of procedural reform are the institutions concerned. We have come to the conclusion that we have really integrated the authorities concerned extensively into the system of state building offices. The point is that today the builder must have up to 12 pairs of project documentation. Every paperwork he brings to another office and every office tells him something different - firemen tell him something for fire safety, landlords something and so on. These authorities aren't communicating. That is why their integration into the building office is absolutely essential to assess one project documentation and as one man, as they say, they told the builder what needs to be adjusted, if necessary, so that the intention can be successful. At the same time, we had to proceed to binding deadlines for the issue of comments, coordinated observations, binding opinions and so on, with the authorities concerned, and this is a 30-day period with an extension of 30 days. For those authorities that are not integrated, then the fiction of consent will apply, which means that if they do not express themselves within that specific period, it will be taken without reservation to agree. Another very important principle in procedural reform is the appeal principle for appeals. You all know it as ping-pong. This means that the First Instance Office will decide somehow, the appeal process will take place, it will come to the Appeals Office, and very often for a completely formal nonsense it will bring back the first instance. Of course, this ping-pong repeats itself indefinitely. That is why I am glad - and I must say here that we are also in agreement with the government coalition on these principles - that it is really very important that the appeal body does not return the first instance in order to solve the project and move it forward, which means that we do not artificially stretch the deadline here. Another major achievement of the new construction law is the removal of black buildings. Even with this, I am very sorry that we are even talking here about putting off the construction law for a year, because all of these processes that I am talking about today's decision, if you approve, you're putting off one year. I really believe that we should try to speed this up and put it into practice as soon as possible, because in the Czech Republic, for example, every tenth building is launched in black. It's a very alarming number, and for those black buildings, we really should intervene as soon as possible as legislators. In the framework of the law, within the framework of the new law, there is therefore a tightening of the conditions for additional permit of constructions. The builder must show good faith, pay the fine, meet the requirements for construction and so on. The very important achievement of the single system of state building administration was that the costs go from municipalities to the state, because the municipalities are now exposed to such a slightly uncomfortable position within black buildings. This is what they decide about the black buildings of the ORP, that is to say, municipalities with extended scope, but of course those municipalities have limited budgets in a certain way, and if they are to pay for black buildings in a different territory than that of their own municipality, then of course the municipality has problems with that extended scope. The municipalities have neither the money nor the personnel involved in the removal of the black buildings to enforce it, of course, after the builder. That's why I think the state has a strong enough apparatus to pick up on these things. Another very important achievement is the content simplification, both the project documentation and the construction office evaluates and allows only in the details of the urban and basic architectural and technical solution of the projects enabling the assessment of its mechanical resistance and stability, fire safety and impact on the territory and the environment, not the internal technical details of the construction, which are the property of the builder and designer. This is set out in Section 158 (2) of the EEAG. 1 new construction law. What's going on? Of course, a lot of builders are complaining that nowadays we have so swelled up all the things that we want from the builder that the builders are turning to us and saying: For the construction of the family house you want me to project documentation as for the construction of a nuclear power plant. I really must underline that this is why we have actually agreed to simplify the project documentation itself. Another very important achievement is the unification and modernisation of construction requirements - at least the basic still fragmented construction requirements. Take this huge amount of different decrees and regulations that the designer - not even the builder - has given up a long time ago, but the designer has to study before he even goes into any project documentation. Our goal was to get the essential things right into the law, so that it would really be a law that is readable even for ordinary builders, so that they would just get better at it. Of course, another concreteization should be in one single decree. This decree allows large cities such as Prague, Brno and Ostrava - such as pilots - to have their own construction regulations. I am just pointing out here that the construction regulations given by the decree and these large cities must be notified to the European Commission. [[9.30 hours]] Another important step was the use of planning contracts with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. The mayors turned to us that they wanted to agree in the territory with the developer, the builder, and so on, but that they were really moving on to the limit of the law. That's why we said we had to legalize it, this procedure, that it mustn't be about the creative activity that could really be criminalized afterwards. And we were just trying to get the planning contracts into the law, that is to say, investors' contributions in the territory for the legal enforcement of the interests of self-government towards builders and investors in the territory, and with that increase, related to increasing the legal certainty of investors in the territory and ensuring the consent of the authorities. The next point they have addressed to us is: Yes, we agree to speed up, simplify, but you must not deprive anyone of their rights. This has been very thoroughly discussed at the plenary of the Legislative Council of the Government, so-called participation and concentration of proceedings. Of course, all concerned, including environmental associations, may participate in a single authorisation procedure, but they may only apply objections once and only when it is possible for the first time, that is as soon as possible, otherwise they will not be taken into account. Indeed, it is not possible that at the whole stage of the construction process, for example - now I apologize to all environmentalists - some kind of bug of a particular type was not there at the beginning and suddenly appeared there during the procedure, because of course it then very limited the builders, but also the potential development of municipalities and so on. So that's what we've been thinking about, everyone can only do it once, at the beginning, and then they won't be taken into account. Another important reform under the new construction law is the reform of remedies. This means that separate reviews of binding opinions are deleted. Take, for example, a student college in Prague. It needed more than 47 binding opinions from the authorities concerned, i.e. 47 possible independent reviews. So take it as it stretches disproportionately at that time, and it delays the appeal procedure very much. It is the reform of appeals, there is the appeal principle, that is, the abolition of ping-pong between stages, that is, the appeal building office must always remove the defects of the contested decision itself, must not just disturb it and return it to further proceedings. The next very important step is digitization. Digitization - and here I think we are clearly in agreement with all of them - is to be conducted electronically with the original electronic documents in the information systems of a unified state administration. As far as digitalisation itself is concerned, I must say there that it has been very intensive working with all stakeholders. As part of the digitization, the Construction Portal will be created, and of course there will also be an interface for the construction offices. The representativeness of specific people is ensured by all being in a unified system of state building administration. This means that there is not a limited number of officials in the village today, because today, if you have two or three people there, God bůh, they are affected by a disease and so on, so these people are unemployable, that is, no other official from another office can come to help them solve specific projects, and therefore, of course, they cannot comply with the deadlines. It is the single system of state building administration, thanks to digitalisation, that will allow representativeness to really follow those deadlines. The next step in the reform was the judicial review. There is an acceleration and deformification of the judicial review, equalisation of the position of the builder with the applicant, concentration of the objections, penalty for the lodging of bullying actions and the prior hearing of actions with a suspended effect. The next item, which I would very much like to mention, is spatial planning. With regard to spatial planning as such, I must say there that we have actually heard some things, such as very terrorizing settlement, whether objections or comments, that is, we have indeed tried to make it easier for local planning authorities. To be honest, there is, of course, a huge scope because we have not brought territorial planning into a purely separate area. Here I would understand if the new government actually came up with another reform in the area of spatial planning. I'm sure I'd applaud standing up, because I think the reform would have made it all the way. With regard to land-use planning: the majority of municipal competence remains unchanged in the area of urban planning. This means self-government decides on key issues, acquires, that is, ensures the process of obtaining documentation, everything that is going on in the delegated scope, but of course we have extended the deadlines for the validity of old territorial plans until 2028. I would like to stop by here, because I am not quite sure if the petitioner is aware of what is going to happen, if the effectiveness of all the processes that I have just mentioned is postponed by one year, i.e. by 2024. This has been brought to my attention by lawyers, which means different legal agencies, that the proposed wording of § 334 para. 2 of the new construction law relating to spatial planning. It is not at all clear what the current amendment would have consequences for the transitional provisions of the new construction law on spatial planning, which, according to the current text, has already taken effect. In particular, it is an extension of the expiry period of the planning documents approved before 1 January 2018. 1. 2007. According to the valid version of the Construction Act, this validity has been extended until 31 December 2006 at the latest. 12. In the absence of any other comments, the Commission considers that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 as amended by the current amendment, i.e. the amendment that we have on our table today, should also apply in territorial planning during the transitional period, i.e. from 1. 7. 2023, to be followed by existing legislation. What would that mean? That by extending the planning documentation in Prague until 2008, this step would not have meant that we were pushing it all a year, and Prague would have stopped having a valid zoning plan as of 31. 12. 2022. I just hope we're all aware of the consequences this may have. Of course, this also applies to the fact that the council can cancel the old zoning plans, as well as to abolish the regulatory plans and so on. We have also set time limits for planning on the acquisition of land planning documentation for both buyers and self-government. We have also put into law the possibility of discussing a territorial study, which is a condition for decision-making. The territorial study is actually a condition for decision-making imposed by the zoning plan, it must be submitted to the council for consideration, not for approval. That means the council is only discussing the zoning study. The representative shall then have a period of 60 days to discuss it, then it shall be deemed to agree with the proposal. These are all steps to really speed up the planning process. As far as the built-up territory is concerned, this can be defined by a separate procedure of ex officio, which means that only the municipality can decide on the acquisition. Similarly, as today can be defined in the zoning plan, the law also defines more detailed content and standard of viewing. At the same time, within the area planning, we focused on public consultation of planning documentation, and this can also be done in the form of a remote approach. This means that it is a parallel to the present, but the law states it explicitly. That's what was missing. Urban studies, territorial generators and territorial forecasts are also being addressed. These are supporting documents taken until 2006. The Supreme Building Office shall release them within three months of the entry into force of the register. Last but not least, the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning was established. It is already contained in the existing construction law, which means the aim was to make all public planning documentation available to the general public within the territory of the Czech Republic. This means, of course, any investor can look into the National Geoportal to find out what territories in the Czech Republic offer, what areas of course, to potential investments. [[9.40 hours]] The new building law was a broad expert jury of the competition Law of the Year, organized by Deloitte Legal under the auspices of the Czech Bar Association, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Tax Advisors, selected among the top five legislative acts in the field of the quality of regulation of Czech business in 2021. I think that we could also take this into account that it was actually working very hard, the interests associations agreed. Of course, I understand the political dimension, but again I warn you that today's law is actually here, today's amendment we are trying to postpone all these good simplifications, the acceleration by a year. I would just like to point out that I understand political events, I understand how cards are dealt. I offer to sit down at the table, to actually prepare an amendment from the new construction law, but let's not deal with the delay of efficiency by a year, which will only bear application problems as such. It should also be recalled that any revision of the system of public building law and all related component laws is technically highly complex. Work, and I've already mentioned it, has really insisted on the new construction law for more than four years. Indeed, many quality experts have been involved. I think we've all received letters from individual unions complaining that there's an amendment to the construction law in the air, but no one's dealing with anyone. I am really convinced that it is very important to discuss these matters, to simply know what is going on, whether it is reasonable whether it will actually speed up the construction process itself. What I think is very important is that I remind you again what we have on the table today. What we have on the table is that all the processes I've talked about for one year will be postponed and the Specialised and Appellate Building Office will remain with all the processes I've talked about, which will be the only one that will be effective at 1. 7. 2023. It's really startling that we're talking here about the fact that the new building bill is good for the state, for construction works, but it's not good for the citizen. And I'm asking, why isn't he good for a citizen? Why is it good only for constructions such as highways, railways, air structures, water tanks, electricity, transmission systems, gas reservoirs, oil pipelines and so on? Why isn't it good for apartment complexes? Why is it not good for kindergarten, for hospitals, for health care, for family homes, for garages, just for everything our citizens of course want? For reserved buildings as such, which I have just listed, i.e. part of them, should therefore apply the new building law from 1. 7. 2023 with everything that the new construction law brings, that is, would allow them at first instance by the State Specialised and Appellate Building Office, which would itself assess all public interests without the need for binding opinions of the authorities concerned. At the second stage, the appeal would be decided by the Ministry of Regional Development, which should still perform the functions of the Supreme Building Office and which should no longer be annulled and the matter returned to further proceedings, but would have to decide the appeal definitively. I understand that this is a very complicated matter, that it is necessary to discuss these things, but just please imagine the real reality if we really postpone it, how it will work. To 1. 7. 2023 The state will operate under the new construction law, it will be the appeal authority of the MMR. From 1. 7. for the next year will work for the municipalities no longer effective law, so I would really like to ask the lawyers how we can move here under ineffective law, but well, they say that we will bridge it in interpretation - I wonder what the courts will do about it, but basically the current law will apply to the municipalities. And in that role the MMR will have as a review body, which means on the one hand it will be an appeal, on the other hand it will be a review. I'd like to answer one question here. By not giving the petitioner the job and not changing the amendment law, that is, all these component laws can result in such an absurd situation: the new building law will shift one year, but the amendment law will not change, but the amendment law is that the authorities concerned go to the Supreme Building Office. So where's the builder of that one gonna go? 7. 2023 for the warrant? Where will these people go? It's gonna be like holding a box in my hand and saying, legally, I'm supposed to go to the Supreme Building Office, I don't know where he is, I don't know where to go, I don't know what to do. That's logically what they have to bear with application problems. I would like to call again to try not to politicize, try to take over everything that's good, sit at one table, so let's look for the way for the first instance at community level. Once again, I understand the policy, on the other hand, let's speed up what we can to speed things up so that these processes can reach the widest possible public and as fast as possible to builders. Thank you for your attention for the moment, and I will certainly keep an eye on the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u9	I am aware of the Minister's priority right, but in the meantime other priority rights are still being applied for, namely, President Schillerová. However, before the counter comes, I'll introduce you to the apologies that have been made by many. And although Mr Karel Tureček apologizes today for health reasons, Mr Radek Koten apologizes from 9 to 12 o'clock for work reasons, Jaroslav Faltýnek today for health reasons, Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 9 to 10.30 o'clock for personal reasons, Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek all the day for work reasons and Minister Síkela also for work reasons. And now only the order of priority rights, i.e. President Schillerová, Vice-President Havlíček and then Minister Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to both the Minister and the former Minister, our shadow minister for local development, Klára Dostálová. I remember her fighting for this law, and I could barely see politics in it. I have always felt that this is really help in this area, which is necessary. Whoever you've ever built anything in your life, you know what the big deal is, in Brno we say it sucks, so I'm not gonna say it here, it's not a writing word. But plus, we have different things here, I'll use the South Moravian expression, the costume peculiarities. What about the building office, the other approach, the different deadline, the other behavior, and people will tell you if you're talking to them. There are construction offices that are great, and there are construction offices that aren't great. And since we don't have a common hand here that methodically manages it and somehow coordinates it, that's why it was created in order to shorten the construction process, but also somehow coordinate it, this construction law. It wasn't the same as the one that the government approved because it's politics and in politics you always have to make a lot of compromises, but it was the first act to get us off the international rankings, where we really find ourselves in the worst places. The YES movement here will speak, and other colleagues from the YES movement, on this subject, colleagues who devote themselves to it more deeply than I do. I am here now to submit, on behalf of two clubs in this Chamber of Deputies, on behalf of the ANO movement club and on behalf of the SPD, the veto according to § 90 para. 3 Rules of Procedure for the discussion of this submitted press in the so-called accelerated procedure. We believe that it must be discussed. It needs to be discussed and we need to know and we want to know because citizens are asking us this, and not just our voters, but our citizens, what happens next. So what does the government intend? Where does he intend to move the building process to? How does he intend to help citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, it is precisely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You objected on behalf of two clubs. You are in the order of priority rights. [[Members of the R. Purple.]] I understand that you have joined at least as visually as this objection or veto, as we call it, two parliamentary clubs. Therefore, it is not possible to discuss in accordance with § 90 para. 2 and we will continue as the next ones with priority rights are entered into the debate. [[Member R. Fiala reporting for word.]] If there's no conflict, you can make it two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I remember when we started discussing the construction law here sometime at the end of the year or when it was, and I know that there was a great contradiction here because a change in the construction law or its effectiveness was proposed, but the amendment law, which is the following and which supplementes the construction law, was an integral part of it. That is why we had the building bill postponed until April 1st. The delay has passed, the time has been set for the amendment of effectiveness to be joined by the amendment law, so that officials do not remain in the airlock and have what to do if the efficiency passes. But nothing like that happened. I am convinced that it is still necessary to give the Government time to amend the amendment law, after all, Minister Šalomoun has confirmed that this is not quite right, and I would like to ask you, Madam President, right now for a procedural vote in order to postpone the negotiation of the building law by 1 September 2022, and I ask you to vote on this procedural proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u13	Thank you for your factual, of course I am registering this procedural proposal, just to make sure - to postpone the discussion of this point until 1 September 2022, I understand. I'm gonna sing. I see priority rights. Mr. Chairman of the STAN Cogan Club, please. [[Members disagree on the call from the bench.]] On counterproposal. [[Voices from the diaper.]] With counterproposal, that was indicated. Please. [[Voices from the diaper: Immediately!]] The counterclaim may be made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u14	Of course, I can make an amendment to this proposal. [[- That's right.]] So I'm going to propose this proposal now. I understand, my colleague, that as part of his obstructive practice, he's trying to move this proposal forward in a process...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u15	I'm begging for a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u16	I want to justify my proposal. [[He's turning to the chair.]] I think I can justify a procedural motion. Is there a problem? [[- You may.]] Or maybe she thinks she's a coworker, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u17	Please, through me. Please justify and make a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u18	I think we're meeting here today to discuss the construction law. Of course, it is possible to propose proposals on this building law both in the matter and in the process. A colleague here has put forward this proposal. I think that this proposal to move a few months to September is not right, and I think that it will be enough to interrupt even a little bit shorter, so I hereby allow myself to propose that this interruption of the meeting - that is, I am making an amendment to his proposal - was only for five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u19	I'm registering, so you're suggesting an interruption until 9.58.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u20	There. And it is an amendment to the proposal of my colleague, Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u21	Yes. It's already been gonged. I will rejoin once more to make sure that I call my colleagues and colleagues into the hall, so that this counter-proposal will be voted first in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll do it again. Yes, check-out request, I'll check everyone out. And does President Schillerová also want a counter-proposal that we should immediately vote on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u22	Madam President, don't be mad at me, but I would like to object to the way this meeting is managed, because it is not a counterproposal. What kind of counterproposal is that? Here was clearly given the proposal of the chairman of the SPD club, and I will forget that it has been justified for how long, well, I understand the justification may be, but what is the counterproposal to interrupt the meeting for five minutes? Don't be mad at me, I object to the way this meeting is managed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u23	Copy that. You have the right to object. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] So we'll vote on the objection first, then on... if I may, then. Initiating vote on objection... [[Rush in the hall, voices from the diaper.]] So I'm interrupting. [[The President shall remain silent.]] I declare this opening (vote 73) confusing, and once again. An objection has been raised, and we will now vote on the objection as read by the President of the ANO club Alena Schillerová. And since it is necessary to vote immediately, I am opening this vote, we all know what we are voting on, and who is in favour of this objection, will now press the button for and raise your hand. Anyone who opposes it will also press the button now and raise his hand. In this vote number 74 153 Members and Members were registered, in favour of the objection was 69, against 84. Objection has not been accepted. And now we're coming to counterproposal interruption for five minutes, by 9.58 it was then. Initiating vote on this counterproposal. Who's in favour of this interruption? Who's against it? This vote number 75, 154 Members and Members have been voted in for 19, against 71. This vote was not adopted. And factually, apparently to vote... No, not Mr. Zborovský. [[Voices from the diaper.]] That's not possible now. We continue with the second proposal, namely to postpone the hearing until September 1, 2022. Initiating vote. Who is in favour, this proposal postponed until September 1, 2022? Who's against it? 154 Members and Members voted in favour of 70, against 82. This procedural proposal was rejected, not accepted. And we can proceed with this in order of priority rights, where Vice-President Karel Havlíček was signed up and then... but he prefers the Minister, which is great. Minister, with your priority right, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u24	I wanted to thank Vice-President Havlíček for giving me the floor because I consider Klára Dostálová to be the relevant opponent of the construction law, because we have been sitting over this law for the entire last term, discussing this was the call that was put forward, in the end, to approve the law as it was introduced in the original version, which we did not agree with. I would try to poke out just a few things, and I certainly don't force any of you to listen to it right now, so if you need to discuss some things that aren't related to it, you can, these are things that, let's say, respond to the individual things that have been said here. I would try to dismantle them, and we are also doing this in various TV or radio debates with the Minister, so we can repeat this round here in the Chamber of Deputies today. [[10.00 hours]] First of all, I would like to stress that many of the things mentioned here by the Chair of the Committee Dostálová are true. It is true, they are contained in the bill, I even acknowledge their existence in the bill. However, their inception will be gradual, especially because our ambition is to change the substance of the law, that is, that everything will bind itself to the Supreme Building Office, which we have opposed from the outset, and our activities in the past period have been aimed against this institutional change by submitting a comprehensive amendment. So I would take a few points that were said here, and I wrote them down. The material didn't pass the interdepartmental reminder control or the LRV. He's not the bill of law we're putting forward. It is only an amendment bill that postpones one part of the law for a later period, so that this is replaced by the amendment in question. I would even reject at this point the argument that this could cause legal uncertainty. I am not convinced that this is the case, although I have seen this view in public space not only from Mrs Dostálová. A new law will apply to dedicated buildings and the old law will go for other constructions. When we talk about whether something is unconstitutional or not, I can give you a whole series of laws whose run is gradual and does not apply to everyone involved at the same time. I would mention, for example, all the popular and beloved EET law, which also came up for segments, for different groups of entrepreneurs in different terms. And I don't think at the moment anyone would find the unconstitutional nature of individual things happening in some kind of timeline. I understand the argument that's repeated over and over again, and that's the judgment of bias. When I look at the statistics coming from the ministry, I think it's basically a kind of bloated bubble. Not that it's not happening, that's not what I'm saying, but it's a bloated bubble. The data of the Ministry of Interior - the number of objections submitted by the system bias - the data are from 2018, I don't expect it to accelerate in any way - were 166 for the whole Republic and 25 for the second-instance then 25. Since the construction authorities decide about 120,000 things per year - territorial decisions, territorial consents, building permits, public contracts and so on - if I share it here, I don't want to delay it, it's somewhere behind the decimal point two zeros and two in percent. I know the argument is being used, I expect it to appear to us - and it already appears - for example in the construction of new nuclear blocks or Dukovany II blocks. Yes, it is sometimes resolved, but it is not a phenomenon that would actually hinder the construction process as a whole. I would even dare to argue very strongly for a change. I do not know what organisations protecting public interests, especially in the field of the environment, the Minister has had the debate, but I have met with representatives of the Green Circle and others and have perceived the original wording of the law as a significant restriction on the protection of public interest in this area. On the other hand, the emergence of a single environmental position, which will be a law to go in parallel with a substantive amendment to the construction law, is welcomed by these organisations. On the contrary, they see this as a strengthening of public interests. I wanted to respond to another thing that was very interesting. I get this number in various forms from different people trying to argue individual phenomena of building management, and this is the number 157, which according to Doing Business places the Czech Republic in some kind of unkind order within the scope of the approval of building management and speed of building management. In 2021 The World Bank has published a press release to investigate irregularities in the Doing Business study. Major errors have been detected. In view of the gravity of the findings and the degree of error, it was also decided to terminate Doing Business. That is why I think it makes no sense to further argue with this assessment. And now I often get a map of Europe, where the Czech Republic is red and all the other countries are green, and this map argues in different hands: We need to change this in the building process, because that is why we are red and everyone else is green. So I am also using experts at the Ministry of Regional Development who, unlike the first law, actually write from the Ministry's pen and we don't buy it from the Chamber of Commerce, so we looked at the decomposition of building procedures in individual countries. Somewhere - Finland, Nordic countries - fully digitized. Fully digitized! Lands that are federal have their own building rules. In most countries, or even in neighbouring Slovakia, the role of regulatory plans is being implemented, which specify how it should be built in the territory. Although I have studied information science and librarianship, I have spent my whole life analyzing and for me one number without stating the context and parameters that are causing the number, it really is not an argument enough to lead such a big institutional change. I am even convinced, and it is based on the circles of expertise dealing with urbanism, territorial planning, that the de facto slowness of the building process is given - yes, of course - by the complexity that digitalisation will solve, but it lies in the part that the amendment from the former Minister Dostálová's pen did not address at all, and that is spatial planning, regulatory plans, their acquisition. And our ambition is, after changing institutional change, to focus on this in the second half of the parliamentary term, i.e. after the Presidency of the Czech Republic of the European Union. Otherwise, I won't be here anymore... I have a lot of notes here. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] We're in a debate. New building law - the same principles of protection. Basically, there are a lot of things that the Minister mentioned here, but they will not apply in this year - twelve copies of project documentation, time limits, appeal principle of appeal, content simplification, we really do not change anything about it, a substantive amendment to the construction law preserves all this. And maybe even here at the House, how quickly we're going to get along with a substantive amendment to start paying as quickly as possible. I just want to say that the number, and now I'm going back to it, the 157th place, isn't an illustration for how long it's been coming up. And, of course, our common ambition is to speed up the construction process. Black buildings and their removal, we'll figure them out. It's going to have to be financed. It doesn't change anything. It's just a matter of setting up a mechanism for how the money gets there at the moment. The subsidy program is not a very good example. We need to set up the subsidy program differently or have it through direct payment via MMR based on proof of the cost of removal. The whole process is more about who pays for the removal. It is not about the state body - and I have dealt with this, for example, with Mr Kupka, who has removed any construction, describing individual steps to me - but it is not that the state is more effective in doing so. The main question is, who's carrying the costs? The planning contracts mentioned here by Mrs Dostálová will be maintained. We support them, we do not want to touch them even in this novel. But it is not just about the contributions to the authorities. Moreover, these can already be used under the current construction law of 2006. Urban planning reform - here I agree with you completely. It needs to be looked at, but not in this time frame. And even in the debate with the cities, we have tried to meet some of the demands of major cities' initiatives, perhaps even a step further than finally happened in a government amendment. Concerns that this amendment will nullify the old territorial plans that have been extended - this amendment postpones the entry into force of provisions that have not yet taken effect. If it has already taken effect, as it has just extended the territorial plans, then this amendment does not affect them, because something that has already happened cannot be postponed. So this provision is abolished directly by this House's press to put an end to its effectiveness, otherwise it is effective as it is. [[You can't?]] [[10.10 hours]] No one's dealing with anyone. I don't think that's true. They are all busy enough bussies or busy enough to solve a situation that is related to the war in Ukraine. It has taken place since the part-sessions - and I apologize for one meeting that was coalically working - and let's face it, the ANO movement is not part of the coalition, so we did not explicitly invite Minister Dostálová - otherwise I try to invite all the stakeholders or those who have something to say actively to these meetings. At the same time, I try to be one step further - not only will I invite them there and listen to them, but also from their point of view in this case, if this is possible even in this shorter time frame, these things can be implemented. You're not touching the change law. To 1. 7. 2023 will be a substantive amendment, which in its scope - and works on it in parallel in its shot - actually regulates all the necessary change laws. In addition, there will be a united position and another. You said the new law was good for the state, not for the citizen. So I don't think that the distribution of efficiency is entirely based on who's building, but what's being built, so the special construction office will allow gas reservoirs, mining structures and more. I think that public things built under a special office regime are essentially for everyone. Otherwise, where he'll go from 1. 7. The man for the warrant? Well, he's going to the construction office where he'd go. The builder will go where he went to this day. When something's postponed, it means that nothing changes, so the uncertainty would be if we were lavishing between whether it's going to be one way or another. We'll work as we set our goal. I have a whole series of arguments here. I suppose there will be another thing coming from the speakers. I don't think I'm going to react in that line right behind each speaker, I felt right with the rapporteur and from the position that we were in the opposite settings in the last parliamentary term, so take the first round. And I see you've made a lot of comments, Mrs Dostálová, so I assume she won't be the last wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u25	Thank you. The speeches have produced a number of factual ones. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, Member Ivan Adamec and then rapporteur Klára Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u26	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what the Minister for Regional Development has just said. Firstly, Minister, the fact that you have conducted negotiations here at the Chamber of Deputies in the framework of the construction law and have not invited anyone from the opposition and have not invited the chair of the Public Administration Committee, Mrs Klára Dostálová, I find it very incorrect to say arrogant, outrageous. So when we learn that this meeting was attended by the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Regions, and there is not practically the most important person in charge of the construction law then, and we are walking down the hall and we are asking because, of course, in the House it was known, and we learn that the Minister has only appointed certain persons whom he invited there, I think this should not be a practice and that you should reconsider it in the future. The second thing I'd like to say is the systemic bias you're talking about. Minister, systemic bias is a problem. Certainly, Mr Adamec, through Madam President, knows the problem, because a lot of people, ordinary people, who ask for building permits, think that this building permit is issued by the mayor. [[Detective Adamec, off the microphone, claims he's no longer the mayor.]] But the division of government, self-government is very difficult for a lot of people. This means that when a community wants to build something on its territory, a number of people might object to the fact that at that moment the office is systemically biased. So the problem is here, and we all know him, so don't say there's no problem. I have to say - and I don't want to cut down on your eruditions - but the mayors really know what the problem is with the construction law. [[Your time.]] And when I was at the Home Office... I'll take one more factual one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u27	Thank you. Now, Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u28	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to tell Mrs Vildumetzová through you that I have not been mayor for many months. [[Mrs Schiller off the microphone: That's a shame.]] Well, maybe it's a shame, but it's just reality. But I was gonna say another thing. I don't want to go into the construction law here anymore, but I have to say that we need to go back to about five years ago, when the elections were here to the Chamber of Deputies, and we all wanted a new building law. And now the bizarre situation is that the coalition at the time approved something I call a gradual destruction of the public administration, unfortunately. We're talking about systemic bias here, but she's in fortunes when we say it like that, plus people do it the same way they always do, those changes to the building bill, I remember it in years, and every change was, of course -- how different than worse, it always made it easier to prepare for the construction. But I really wish that we were having a debate here on how public administration is supposed to look, and then we were dealing with partial adjustments, what anyone would do. And that didn't happen here. And really, I'm sorry, I understand that you're defending your bill, and in the end, you pushed it through our resistance, despite the resistance of most mayors here in this room, so don't be surprised we don't want it. And I don't want that from the point of view that it's really the destruction of the public administration. And to be completely fair, we did it once -- I wasn't here then, I would have screamed -- and it was about the employment and social affairs office. And it was wrong, let's face it. It was wrong. I don't know where you get the idea that the state does everything best. I certainly don't share that. And really, let's talk about what the performance of the public administration as a whole is supposed to be like. And then let's say it doesn't belong there, it's going to be standing or vice versa: it belongs there and the state is doing it wrong. And if we don't do this, the discussions... [[Your time.]] They'll be as bizarre as they are today!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u29	I'll read the order of fact so you have an idea. Mrs Klára Dostálová, President Marek Výborný, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mr Radek Vondráček. So please, your de facto, your two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u30	Thank you, thank you. I will really be very brief in terms of de facto. I'd just like to respond to the Minister. You said what was discussed didn't end up here, which is why you didn't agree. Well, you didn't even agree to what was discussed. Second, a new building law versus an old law. Please, we're talking about simplification here, and you're just gonna say that for the builders, there's gonna be two laws, one old, one new one. Well, that's not a lot of simplification. Then please prove to me a single invoice against the Chamber of Commerce that we bought the law. I'm sick of it. It didn't happen, we didn't buy any law as an MMR. As far as the amendment law is concerned, you're saying people will know where to go. I say again, the amendment law states that the authorities concerned will go to the Supreme Building Office. It doesn't come out. Then where will these people go if they don't have the office to be created? So don't tell me everyone will know where to go if it's not really clear. Then I must agree with Vice-President Vildumetzová. The mayors, indeed those who obey the law, are complaining that people come to complain to them, but that they can't do anything if they obey the law. That's why these mayors very much called for it and said to me, "Take it." It's just the construction authorities, that's evil for us, because everyone's calling us names, and there's nothing we can do. I also agree with Mr Adamec, through you, I apologise, Madam President, that the amendment is always the way to the worse. That's why I'm warning against this novel. That's why there were 25 novels, and an extra stamp was always made, just the wrong way. That is why we have also agreed to complete reform on the basis of OECD recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u31	Thank you and you don't have to agree with me through this. As for the order, Mr Marek Výborný with de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I hate to do this, but I have to respond and stand up for the Minister and I will respond to Mrs Vildumetzová's factual remark. I think that none of the Members - and certainly not of the opposition Members - will be here to determine who the Ministers will marry or not marry, invite or invite to a meeting. I just wanted to remind you that I was at a roundtable meeting at the Ministry of Regional Development. Mrs Dostálová was present there, as well as performing, expressing herself, so it is not that you are bypassed in any way. And, of course, something else is the role of the rapporteur, something else is the role of the guarantor for the opposition party, we respect that, and this is how it has been discussed with you. [[10.20 hours]] My colleague Adamec was very clear about the systemic bias. And I see this, and the debate that's going on here, we've had it here for three years - we've been constantly bumping into completely closed doors and unwillingness to have fun, and we're having a fair political debate and a debate about whether or not a connected public administration model is supposed to work here. Whether we tear down what's been working here for decades or not. In fact, we're continuing the debate from last term, we respect that. But we are clearly convinced that for the benefit of not us, but for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic, those builders, it is first for us to go back to what we actually said unsuccessfully here - we respect, you had the majority, you pushed through something here through the coalition of the construction law with the SPD and with the communists then, so we are convinced that the danger that there is, we have pointed out, we are not allowed to do so. And as for the Chamber of Commerce, as Mrs Dostálová got a little emotional here - well, of course there are no invoices, but so sometimes someone writes something because she may have something of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u33	Thank you for keeping time. And before I give space to another factual one, I'll read the apologies because there's a whole series of them, it's necessary. President Pekarová Adamová withdraws her apology from 9.45, then Mr Jiří Kobza apologizes today from 10 to 12 o'clock for work reasons and Mrs Eva Decroix today from 10 to 12 for work reasons. That would be all the apologies. Madame de facto, please. Mrs Berenika Peštová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u34	I would like to respond to Mr Adamec, through Madam President. Mr Adamč, through Madam President - how do we not want the law? Here's the law that came into effect, the law is effective. And you say here on the microphone, "We don't want the law," and that's why we want to extend the effectiveness of this law, or we want to extend something that's already been effective. So we're the legislators, we're here to pass the laws that we're supposed to act on. We tell people: There are laws, we are the rule of law, follow them! And you say, "We do not want the law, we want another!" [[The Member speaks loudly, strongly.]] So I'm a smoker, I don't agree with the law that I can't smoke in a restaurant, so I'm gonna go to a restaurant and smoke because I don't agree with the law either! And I'll wait until he's different. You can't be serious? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u35	Thank you. It's just, it was a little louder than the standard here. [[Applause and laughter from the right.]] Please, the order of the facts, once again it's such a disaster. Mr Radek Vondráček, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, President Alena Schillerová, Klára Dostálová, Ivan Adamec and then Ivan Bartoš. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u36	Thank you for the time. Madam President, I have seen louder speeches here, I think that is not what this is about. I would like to respond to the date of the destruction of the public administration used by Mr Adamec. I'll take your argument: we don't want it, so we don't want it. Fair enough, we're straight. But tell me, what are you protecting? The destruction of what system? You're really saying it works? You don't know that some of the places at the smaller construction offices remain vacant and that no one can just send there because they're unemployable, and that just when a lady's two months sick from that office, there's no building permit for two months? That there was now a case in the Karlovy Vary Region, that they had good numbers, that they had a zero review -- well, because they didn't have a seat at all, so they had a zero decision, no building permit -- zero, so there was no review, zero. And I could go on. From the big cities in Moravia, near the big cities, they send, sign exceptions so that they can go from the big construction offices to the small ones on weekends and issue building permits for those people. A simply mixed public administration model did not work out in this case. I was very skeptical of the change, because it really is an indirect reform of public administration in the Czech Republic using one law. I was very restrained, but the factual arguments convinced me. It just doesn't work with the construction process, as the minister said, the unpleasant number 157, is a very unpleasant number. So I guess it's the bad reporters who keep saying that number 157, over and over again. And I think we really have to deal with this. And I'm gonna have a separate speech, so I'm gonna say the rest. But the destruction of a system that urgently needs reform is not destruction. That's reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, will be prepared by President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Marek the Výborný, through Madam President. Well, Mr. Chairman, you're going to say you're not going to tell us who we're inviting. I apologize - the meeting took place on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, not at the Ministry of Regional Development. And if there was an invitation to the Association of Regions, if there was an invitation to the Association of Local Authorities and the Union of Towns and Municipalities, I think that the Chair of the Public Administration Committee should certainly have been present. And I think you should acknowledge that and that it shouldn't happen again in the future. The second thing about Mr Adamec, through Madam President. I am sorry, you have been a long-time mayor - I want to say one thing, Mr Adamč, through Madam President, I have responded with my factual remark to the Minister for Regional Development, because he said that systemic bias is not a problem. But you know very well as mayor that this is a big problem that needs to be dealt with in individual municipalities. I say again: Every mayor - and every citizen thinks when it comes to the office - and you know it, Mr. Mayor Kupka over there, it's happened to me many times that......he's not, yes, well, but the long-time mayor - the citizens came to me and they think the mayors and the council are deciding on the building permit. [[Mr. Kupka disagrees from the scene.]] That's just the way it is! Because state administration and self-government are problematic, and systemic bias is problematic. And I can tell you, I've been some month or some year at the Ministry of Regional Development. You know, there's a supervisory, control department, and we've been doing a lot of analysis on which one of the agendas is most problematic. And which one is the most problematic? It is, of course, a building procedure, because each office is proceeding completely differently, each office wants different documents for a building permit. So the problems are here, I've reacted to it in some way, and it's just that the municipal office decides, you can appeal within the regional office, but then you have an MMR that wrote the law, but an appeal within the Ministry for Regional Development is not possible. So the reaction to what the Minister said here is certainly not based on the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u39	Thank you and please, because we are still on the same number, we are still on six factual points, so also you who respond during the debate, sign up with a factual remark, make sure it is not off the microphone. And now for President Alena Schillerová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Every change leads to worse, said Adamec, Chairman of the Economic Committee. It's Henry Kissinger's quote, if I'm not mistaken, I'm sure it's general, and I totally agree with that. Here we are having a second term in dispute over the systemic solution to this issue, and I ask, aside from all the different insults here - I will comment on this in a moment, hopefully I will be able to do so - I am asking: Where is the citizen? Where's the citizen who knows he'll be able to build faster, that it'll be resolved? That means we're gonna argue here if it's systemic. Let's face it, and you admit it doesn't work. It's not working, and what's your plan? Where's your plan besides destroying what we've been trying to do? And please also to the President of the KDU Club, Mr Výborný. Please don't insult my colleague here. Don't insult her! It was such a hidden insult that someone got paid for something, it really hurt me. I greatly appreciate Klára, through Madam Vice-President, I greatly appreciate Klára Dostálová, she is my dear colleague, a hard worker. And I think we're both religious people, and one of the teners is that you won't use perjury against your neighbor unless I'm wrong - so please hold onto it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u41	I thank the President for her factual point and now Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u42	Thank you for the floor. I have, of course, also applied to the words of Mr Výborný, for whom I am very sorry, because we have always had correct relations. So just please, the Chamber of Commerce did not write for itself any law, no one received any money for it, and by what you said, you insult the Road and Motorway Directorate, SŽDC, ČKAIT, Chamber of Architects, many Members who participated in the colleges, and of course the Gremia Minister we had to do so, and you cannot deny it. Of course, many of you were at those meetings. The Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Regions, all discussed each passage of the law on a working level and could comment on it. So please, let's not say things like that, it doesn't belong here. I think we appreciate each other's fair relationships, and we don't need either of these. As far as systemic bias is concerned, as has been said here, the percentage or the perm you're talking about are convicted, but we all know that even some of the captains impose systemic bias on themselves so that they don't have to decide about the project, and then months and months are sought by another county, another office that decides for them. This isn't gonna happen at all, and of course it's about the systemic bias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, with his own facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister, co-workers, colleagues, we're not listening to each other much again today. I didn't say it was all okay in a mixed public administration model and that the construction law was okay. I was just saying in the opening words that we all wanted a change in this area. We've all been looking forward to it, we've all had it in our electoral programs, but somehow we just haven't been able to make a deal on this trip. And maybe here -- I don't want to put things in perspective -- but validity, efficiency, we could have a long discussion here. I am not questioning here that the House is to behave in any way, and indeed legislative corps, so that there is continuity, is predictable law and so on, but I will leave that to the experts involved. I just said that we didn't actually evaluate the situation at the beginning of what it looks like in the municipalities. I'm not saying that construction agencies are supposed to be on twos or all twos, I never said that. I never said I was protesting if we had a debate here about changing a mixed public administration model. I never said that here. On the contrary, I would welcome the debate here, let us say this, let us discuss here what is good for the citizens of our society, what is good for the municipalities, for the cities, but I have a feeling that we have not listened to each other here on this very journey in relation to the construction law. We said something, and you didn't want to hear it. You had a majority, I understand it, it just goes in the legislative process that most wins, but don't be surprised that we're saying something else now, and we're saying the same thing we said before. It's just the way it is! And I'd really like you to listen to me. I really don't mind if we start debating a mixed or separate public administration model, but this debate is supposed to get ahead of it, rather than being on a specific law... [[Time!]] ... we're changing the system, which is completely wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u45	I will recapitulate the order of facts: Mr Jiří Horák, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Marek Výborný, Minister Ivan Bartoš and then Mr Havlíček and Kupka's preferential rights are applied. I give you my word on de facto and say goodbye. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how it works in cities and villages. I've been a local for seven years, and now I've been mayor of the Oerpécko 7,000 city for five years, and I have to say, we have a pretty decent experience. I have to say, we're really worried that the baby and the bathtub aren't gonna spill, because out of hundreds of trouble-free building procedures, really hundreds of them, we've happened in those - I don't know - almost 12 years sitting there, really a few disgruntled citizens. And most of the time, the citizens themselves felt that their demands were unjustified and that they wanted to do something that they shouldn't do, and the Bureau was preventing them from doing so. And the fact that they're merging the construction office with the mayor or the mayor, that's really marginal. I realize that in many cities and municipalities, especially the larger ones, and in more complex projects, there are problems. But I would really like to say that a large part of the oerpéček and a large part of the towns and villages do not have the problem, they manage the construction procedures quite well and quite quickly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. We will continue to register in the context of factual remarks. Mrs Berenika Peštová will now appear and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u48	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I'll try to pull the volume slightly to the left. I'm used to talking a little loud, so I apologize to the other sex for taking it hard, and I'm really gonna try. Of course, I know the difference between effectiveness and effectiveness, Mr Adamč, through Mr President. Building law has, as you say, taken effect 29. 7. 2021, and if we talk about the efficiency, it's divided into three. One is one. 8. 2021, the second is 1. 1. 2022 and the third is 1. 7. 2023, and these are the employees that Mrs Klára Dostálová was talking about here, through Mr President. And that's the vacuum that's going to happen here, because those employees aren't actually going to know whose they are or who their employer is, because that's 1. 1. 2022 was already to be selected by the Chairman of the Supreme Building Office, which was to be competed in December 2021. [[Mr Adamec's remarks.]] Can I keep talking, Mr. Ambassador, or are we gonna yell at each other and then you can't carry my voice here? [[Member Adamec: Through the President.]] Through Madam President. [[Fun.]] Thank you, Congressman... Well, sir...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u49	Madam, don't let me interrupt you. You keep talking, and I'll, uh, I'll, uh... I'll, uh... I'll, uh... I'll, uh... I'll, uh... I'll, uh... I'll, uh... I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, I'll, uh, Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u50	Of course the President was to be chosen, there should have been a complete systemization which was to be submitted to the Ministry of the Interior, which is also not, to be claimed the budget for the Supreme Building Office, which is also not. The box is there, but there is an amount zero. I was told yesterday by the Minister - now I do not know whether to say through Mr President - Stanjura, who also told me yesterday that you were breaking the law, that he knew it and that it is conscious that they simply know that the law has already come into effect, and unfortunately he does not want the law. It's in the log. If you want, I can read it to you. So he tells me here that yes, that he knows that the law is broken, that as the law says, you don't do, you don't do, but that you don't want this law... and you wait for a new one. [[Your time is up.]] That's all I was told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u51	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný will now appear, Minister Ivan Bartoš will be prepared with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We have some confusion in the sexes. Oh, no, two notes. To Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, through you. There's no argument here at all. We have always been in agreement and we agree that single-headed construction agencies are not really functional and we are not counting on them. The Minister can confirm that. I see Minister Martin Kupka in front of me. We've been discussing this for months and they won't really be there. There will be a reduction to prevent what is the problem today, such as the representativeness, as you rightly mentioned. And then I would like to say here on the microphone, and I told President Schillerová and President Dostálová: I really did not mean her by my remark. Not only did I not say it towards her, but I didn't even think to say it towards her. I've never thought about it like that, and I don't think about it. I said it in the direction of those interest groups that were involved in the creation of the law or in its material intent. Finally, Mrs Dostálová confirmed this to me, so, of course, I was going there to point out that there was a huge number of those interests in the creation of the construction law, and of course everyone was following some of their own interests. I didn't really point that note towards her, so please let it be perceived that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u53	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u54	Thank you. I'll try to react quickly in fact to some things. Mr Vondráček, through Mr President: I agree with the need to rationalise the building office system, we need to address the single-headed construction offices, so we have adopted a methodology in the material proposal that is yet to come, so that the building offices, where the parameters are 35 kilometres, the number of operations and at least 3 employees are available. The mixed model has been here since the 19th century, and if we decide to change it, certainly not by Mr Kolovratník's amendment, which landed at the very end. And among other things, the government proposal that the House was discussing before Mr Kolovratník's parliamentary proposal was put there, normally left by the construction authorities in the municipalities, so I don't actually understand why the argument is bothering now. I'd like to set the subject straight on bias. It's different. In a court of law, the system bias is not addressed separately, it is dealt with within a specific permit, and the figures I have mentioned are genuine objections, not convicted but raised objections. As all the institutions expressed themselves: yes, thousands of comments were gathered during the law hearing on a government proposal that we then called a hybrid, but in the end came Mr. Kolovratník, pulled out the Chamber of Commerce's proposal, put it in the House, here it did this, the Communists, the SPD, and it was that. So the debate took place for three years, but its result was the original proposal written by the Chamber of Commerce with the Ministry of Regional Development. And I have one last thing to say. When I go to talk to my colleagues, whether it's in the House or at home in the living room or at the Ministry, please, if things are already above some material, I would be happy to invite all relevant actors to do so. But I would allow myself to actually be able to deal with a specific problem at the moment, to meet with those people I want, whom I will choose on the team to solve the problem, and I will be happy to invite the secretary to the debate on the law that... [[Time.]] ... we'll submit to the interreort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u55	Thank you. We will now continue with a series of factual remarks. Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová now withdraws a factual point. Mrs Berenika Peštová and Mr Radek Vondráček will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u56	I wanted to respond to the Minister for Regional Development. The systemic bias - problems are growing. I don't know, I'm saying there's a lot of mayors here, I'm sure you've met them. So I didn't just meet with the mayor, rather that I dealt with the transferred authority about the regions, so the systemic bias is really growing. In fact, the last judicatures, and not only judicatures relating to systemic bias, say that the municipality, which has the very building office in its territory and requests a building permit, should not actually apply to its construction office, which is in the locality, but should apply to the building office, which is neighbouring. But I'm saying, systemic bias... [[Ambassador Adamec from the bench responds.]] [[Prime Minister, I'm sorry, but don't really jump in.]] ... is growing and we have solved problems, but I say not only from the point of view of building law, but also from other component laws, really more and more. And the worst part is that the courts are really judging in this way that the mayor or the community that wants to apply and not just for a building permit should ask in the neighbouring ORP precisely to rule out systemic bias, and I think that is not a good thing and it is a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u57	Thank you. And now Mr Radek Vondráček will make a point of fact. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u58	I'm not gonna run out of two minutes. I wanted to ask the Minister something - he ran away, I understand he can't sit here all the time. He was talking about the conditions under which the network of individual construction offices would somehow become more effective, and he was talking about the conditions that at least three people, some territory. And I've only heard such rumors that one of those conditions is enough, so I wanted the Minister to promise that these conditions will be applied comprehensively, that some territory will be needed, some population and some number of employees who will be specialised in the area. I say, they're rumors, my colleague gestures on me. I wanted to hear it here, so the minister can promise me, because if we don't listen to each other, we won't be here... I don't think we're gonna convince you, if there's any sensible solution, you're gonna get your way, so I'd like to hear that these terms are going to be cumulative, and I hope you're really gonna have a conversation with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u59	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u60	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Secretary... the Minister is not here... all right. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just very brief on the so-called systemic bias. The fact that we have a merged public administration model means that the authorities, the Trojan authorities or the two authorities, are actually carrying out the state administration that the state will entrust. I think it's a big misunderstood court if that's what they're doing. I'm just afraid the mistake is somewhere else. And I'll tell you, in all my 23-year history as mayor, I don't know a single case where someone would invoke systemic bias in low investment. Never. They were always natural persons who had other intentions, or even intentions that crossed. And in our case it was very little, but I know the case from the neighboring village or town, to be absolutely precise, to not offend them, Dvora Králové nad Labem, where two big businessmen in this way settled their accounts, unwilling to let go of the premises of another businessman, unwilling to share their business there in that area, and so it was. Something else is - and I also know the case - when the civil servants of the building office write down with the mayor, they grow up instead, the representative, where they solve the conditions of the building permit. Well, that's exceeding the authority of a public official this, for that we have other paragraphs, and those paragraphs are quite - I would say - very serious. And every mayor will confirm to me that the blame for overstepping the authority of a public official, that it's a nightmare for him, because it's really big, and it's slowly as if you've got someone stabbed somewhere. Everybody's gonna be careful. So, while such cases have been, they have always been suppressed in the embryo, but simply systemic bias in terms of, for example, what Mrs Peštová here said, through Mr President, I have never met this in those urban investments. Never! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u61	And thank you for keeping the time, Mr. Ambassador. We have therefore exhausted all the factual points and now Members with priority rights will speak. First Vice-President Havlíček and then Minister Kupka. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u62	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member of the Government, honourable Members, in fact, two are here, honourable Members. I don't know if anyone's listening to us, whether it's Czech TV, but in any case, whoever wants to build, whether it's family or whether it's a company, it's gonna make him cry. He cried out of what would come to us if there was a shift in efficiency and a fundamental change in the meantime. Let's get a little bit into the real world from the offices and from the parliamentary and political institutions, and let's look at it at the point of view of the ordinary citizen. What does he want in the construction process? He wants it to be quick, he wants it to be uncomplicated, as simple as possible, he wants it to be cheap for him, and he wants it to be unbiased. That's all he's asking of us and our duty. regardless of whether we're from side A or side B, it's for him to prepare this. The fact that it hasn't been here for 25 years, that it's been complicated by tens, hundreds of different novels, until we get to the point that we're in some 153th place in the world, is because of politicians, everyone who's been here by then, without any excuses. Normal people don't give a damn who they belong to. Whether it's under the A office or under the B office, under the county, if it's under the state. He wants what I said here to make it non-bureocratic and, if possible, cheap for him. After 25 years, we've tried to make a change, and we're not saying it's a genius change. Who was there, and most of you, who are talking so flamingly today, had to see how difficult it was for four years to prepare everything, to negate it, to negotiate with all the stakeholders, whether they were professional chambers, whether they were different nonprofits, whether they were mayors, whether they or they were, everyone had some comments about it and quite factual and quite reasonable. Everyone logically defends their interests, just as President Adamec has said here, through Mr President. He defends the interests of the mayors, we defend the interests of the citizens. Not because we think the mayors are doing it wrong. Many of them do it well and very well and many of them do it wrong. But we prefer the interests of those who want to build, not those who decide when to build and how to build. [[10.50 hours]] What's wrong with reducing the time from 5.4 years to one year? I think we can all agree on that. And that's not what I'm talking about. Traffic constructions that sometimes lasted 20 years. Thanks to this law that we have prepared, it will all be on one application, through one stamp, through one office, and don't take my word for it, but it won't be about tens. What's weird about the fact that we're trying to get permissions that today give municipalities, cities, regions that are logically associated with their self-government, so that these permits are now within a unified or unified system? X-times there's been a word of bias. Yes, she wasn't somewhere, but she was somewhere undoubtedly. It was every dog in a different village, and to be more precise, it was more like every village in a different dog. And that's what we wanted to change, and that's what we did. It has succeeded in a perfectly normal democratic way. After four years of discussions, expert discussions, this House has decided and it is true. And what's happening now? We shift efficiency, we make a whole series of changes at the time of efficiency, again confusion for those who want to build, uncertainty, how it will look, shifts again, everything again differently. I know it's democratic. Yes, you can say that your House, which was here, has made a decision about it, so we'll make a different decision. So I'm just saying that when we get back here, and it doesn't look like it's gonna be that long, we're gonna change it again. As for the technical stuff, I don't know why it's so amateur. I do not know why this will not be discussed with all the authorities concerned and why two regimes will be created here again. I don't know why we don't take into account the amendment law that governs dozens of other laws. After all, you had to receive a letter from all the key chambers and unions and professional associations, whether they are those in the construction sector, those in the economic sector, those in the confederation area, they are tens and hundreds of experts who participated in it. They're writing you unfortunate letters that if we hit this system, we're just gonna make another mess. And it's been down since my colleague Mrs. Dostálová. At this point, we are threatening not only the construction of those who will be touched at first glance by the apparent delay of efficiency, which are flats, which are industrial buildings, logistics buildings and so on, but by not taking into account the amendment law, so logically it will also affect the infrastructure buildings, which means transport buildings and so on. We're gonna overload the building authorities, make them confused. There's one thing I'm asking for. Take into account what people want, what citizens want, what those who want to build, and don't just consider those who want to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u63	Thank you, too. Minister Kupka will now appear - there are two factual points, thank you. Mr Ivan Bartoš will now speak with a point of fact, and Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u64	Speaking of confusion, I'm going to repeat the history of the previous building bill. It was here until the last moment before the elections in the regime that there would be a compromise hybrid negotiated proposal in cooperation with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and other actors, and finally a proposal by Mr Kolovratník, who returned everything to the original regime. So I think the uncertainty, on the contrary, was precisely this change in the course of the last term. I still wanted to respond to Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, through Mr President. When the person of the chair of the Public Administration Committee is so extremely important, as you will explain to me the paradox of the last parliamentary term, when the Committee of Economics was appointed by the Guarantee Committee and the Committee of Public Administration was completely excluded from this as a guarantee committee. And then there is one apology, here was a criticism of the Chamber of Commerce, so according to the register of contracts that I am looking at - of course there are blackened bank connections - the client was the Ministry of Regional Development and a partner who wrote this original law, which was then re-submitted by Mr. Kolovratník, the Law Office of Havel Partners, s. r. o., where I can even quote the part here: "The subject of the contract is the obligation of the provider to provide consulting, expert and consulting activities" - the name will be omitted - "assuming in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development to process the design of building law and related laws and to participate in work meetings to recodify building law." So the law was out-of-court, so we gave it to the chamber, but it was to a particular law firm. I'm not gonna dig any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u65	Thank you. Another factual point by Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, prepared by Ivan Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u66	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to what has now been said from the mouth of the Minister for Regional Development. Yes, in the last term of office, it was held by the Economic Committee. He has the right, of course, to decide who will be the guarantee committee. I have to say that I was a member of the Public Administration Committee during the last term of office, as well as Vice-President, and we had many discussions with the President - because he was chairman of the Public Administration Committee, there was another representative from the Czech Pirate Party, Mr Profant, today he has him at the Ministry of Regional Development - and they were eventually still rapporteurs for the press. We were in a position to see, for example, the YES movement - and we had people on the committee who almost did not report any House press - so it was also, in my opinion, the reason that the Minister for Regional Development in the position of Chairman decided without us who would be the rapporteur or the press. But my point in fact was on the statement made here by the Minister for Regional Development, through Mr President. You said here - I really don't want to reduce your expertise in any way - that the mixed public administration model has been here since the 19th century. So we all know that we had a reform of the public administration here, that the Ministry of the Interior came with it around 2000, Mrs Strecková, and this mixed model of the public administration has been here since this year. Okay, right now you're saying, I wrote it down, you just said mixed model of public administration. So I just wanted to put it right, that we all know since when the reform of the public administration and at the same time this model, which is now set up, so since when it's here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u67	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, with a factual remark, then Martin Kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, I have to respond here to Mr Havlíček. I'd like to tell him that I'm not defending the mayor's interests at all, that's a big mistake and a misunderstood thing. By the way, actually, the mayors are also defending interest - now I've heard that the mayors have always had something out of it, from an unnamed colleague, so if he was a mayor, then please the Lord, I say this quite frankly. But the mayors are the first in line to defend people's interests, because otherwise people wouldn't have chosen them. I've been elected six times to this position, always remembered to defend people's interests. And, yes, I know the businessman's opinion that it doesn't really matter who gives them the building permit, especially if it's fast. I know them. It's logical, it's legitimate for them to say this, but it's not our fault as a government that the building law has gone so fucked up - and I don't know any other word better - in the course of years. That's right. I mean, remember how it was 15 years ago, building law, building proceedings, and how it is now. We all know that. So please more arguments, less demagogy. I just can't listen to this because I'm defending the mayor's interests. I defend the interests of the citizens of my city, and at this moment I defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u69	Thank you, too. Mr Martin Kolovratník will now speak with a point of fact, then Minister Ivan Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u70	Hello, I'm logged in to a proper debate and I wanted to wait patiently, but now, in order to make some sense, I must quickly follow up with Minister Bartoš when he used my name and quoted from the register of contracts on the Chamber of Commerce. [[11.00 hours]] Through Mr President, Minister, it was nothing in the finals of the last parliamentary term. I just looked up the digital archive, the press came here to the House, the first reading took place on November 5, 2020, I recall, November 5, 2020, i.e. the year to the election. We had a hundred days to discuss the committees here. It was not just an economic committee as a guarantee. It was in the Constitutional and Legal Committee, in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, in all of them several times, the process was really long. We didn't finish our third reading here in the House until 26 years ago. 5. 2021, so it was more than a six-month process. Yes, you quote correctly from the register of contracts, but I also correctly add that we did not receive the text from the Chamber of Commerce, which we translated into the House document and sent here. We really spent tens, maybe hundreds, hours here with Members who were interested. There were people from both the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Environment who were just checking and defending those public interests, such as water protection, the protection of hygiene limits and so on and so on. So I want to respond to this, and please don't use the fact that some group of people here are gonna write something and bring it here to discuss it quickly. It's not true. For example, for me personally, a very important guarantee by Deputy Director Mana of the Ministry of Environment, who, when we finished finalising the comprehensive amendment, said: Yes, as it is built, with everything that it contains, with integration and so on, with insurance policies, I note that public interests are not weakened. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Well, that's just a quick reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u71	Thank you, too. Now Minister Ivan Bartoš, then Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u72	I'm just gonna keep it short. I was quoting right here from the contract register to correct my original statement about the chamber, and I dedicated the job or the contractual relationship to a specific law firm. It seems to me a little bit of the argument that has been made here by Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková... She tried it on me about twice on the committee that I selectively passed the laws on those people, so me and Mr. Secretary then made a table where we left out who they were allocated legislation, and then I dealt with the management of the Public Administration Committee on individual allocations. Of course, the reaction, the ability of some people - and this is not the case with Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková - to respond to this when it was necessary to quickly assign the press - I did it by a silent system, agreed. That is why I have always sent a proposal to what I think - which I have the right to do as committee chair - and when someone contradicted the assignment, I assigned it to another person according to the proposal. And so, from the logic of the matter, when, as a committee, the law was taken away from us as a gesture committee, we, as opponents of this proposal, simply usurped the fact that we would like to report this report at least in the committee's regime. Indeed, on the basis of this, he was transferred or elected as a guarantee committee by the Economic Committee, where, of course, he already gave his rapporteur the right way for them, which is logical, because even on the committee where we had the Chairs, of course, the government majority had the numbers to vote according to the mechanics that work in the House. So I tried to distribute the press fairly. I even have e-mail communication, including tables and the distribution of prints by individual Members. Often, the rapporteur has been rejected by some members, which is also their right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u73	Thank you. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u74	I would like to respond to Mr Adamec, who unfortunately is not here, through Mr President. I understand that his practice is good practice, he experienced as mayor that he didn't have to deal with it, but we all draw from our practice again, and I have to say from my practice that I also drew, and also, when I was in the Ministry, we had to intervene many times in the sense that, let's just say, some of the proceedings were very politicized, there were pressures on officials. So either we're talking as a ministry - I see the Minister of Transport, who can also contribute to this, because when we were dealing with Vodochody, it was a similar case when we were doing review procedures and the like - so we had to rig as a ministry, or we had to give another region to solve the case, precisely because there were incredible pressures on those civil servants. So it's not that it's not happening, it's happening. Like good people and bad people, they're just good officials who are worried -- they're not worried about life, there's no way I want to personify it -- but there were pressures on them, and they asked for help themselves, and we gave their case to another country. So let's not tell each other and lie to each other that it's not. It's just that the mixed model is wrong, but it's already historically wrong, that it's been set like this and that it's set up by the government and the government that's merged, and that the government is the one that's transferred, and it gets - although 80 percent, it's not 100 percent - from the state, but that the government is not independent, that it's just the state administration and self-government in the joint house. It's not good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u75	Thank you. Mr Vondráček's point of fact. At present, Mr Member, you have a factual point and then the priority right of Minister Kupka is followed, so if you want a factual point, you have one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u76	So I'll use the factual notes, thank you. About the systemic bias. I was in the case where the Zlín Region signed a memorandum on cooperation with the Ministry of Transport that they have a common interest in building D49. That's our famous one with a hamster, towards Frysták. Even a joint memorandum, meaning purely positive, eventually raised objections about the systemic bias of the Ministry, which decides in a remedy in decay. So the systemic bias is the new mantra, the systemic bias is rampant. Of course, decision-making practice isn't static, it's dynamic, it's evolving. I must say that these arguments and these objections are more appropriate here. This means that if a colleague has a good experience and does not have a problem with systemic bias and others have, I just point out that the phenomenon is getting stronger, it may be problematic for the future and we as legislators should also think a little about legislation preventively, not only what is happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u77	Thank you. Now there is no further factual point. I'll read an apology. Today between 12 and 15 pm and 12 pm until the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Hájek apologizes. Minister Kupka will now perform with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on why we are actually here today, what is leading us to this. I am so sorry that Vice-President Havlíček has fallen to so many demagogues. If they accuse us of not having citizens in the first place, I just think it's an unfair foul. Both citizens and people who can invest as entrepreneurs, but also as mayors in their important intentions, so they come in contact with the construction authorities. I firmly say that I had the opportunity to act as an investor of small construction as a natural person and as an investor representing the interests of the municipality, i.e. citizens and as an investor representing the interests of the region. I am now in the role of representing, as Minister of Transport, the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic in key transport structures. At the same time, I had the opportunity to combine the role of those who made decisions or had an influence on decision making, but let's also see what that influence might look like. As mayor of the village, I had the maximum opportunity to exercise influence when the proceedings were stopped or when the officials could not agree and decide in time. There is no way - and here I dare say that you will all confirm that if you acted fair - to influence how the particular person decided what his particular court looked like. And undoubtedly, it could have ended at times in such a way that political influence was stronger. But, of course, the influences faced by every official are much more. The clerk also lives somewhere, the construction can endanger him personally, anyone else can attack him. Let's talk about what's key to how to set up a system to really serve citizens. We have a regime that has been decided on - a regime of a mixed public administration model. When Ivan Adamec says that there is a particular act of destruction, unfortunately, we must only give him the truth, because if it was a real reform of the mixed model of public administration - we had a debate about it - so it would certainly not only affect the area of the construction law, but also the environment, culture, transport and so on. The fact that there is one specific law here, one specific issue, that the law is breaking into the current mixed model of public administration, is a bare fact, and the indication of the influence of the destruction of the mixed model without the fundamental debate on basic settings, that is unfortunately also true. [[11.10 hours]] We drew attention from the beginning to serious problems, here it was said from the mouth of Vice-President Havlíček that it was communicated with everyone. Unfortunately, those who have played an important role in the decision-making process, the region, the municipalities and the cities, had a major problem with the proposal from the start, because of the practical problem, as they pointed out, and by the way, the Ministry of the Interior pointed out that it would not work and that it would encounter a fundamental practical obstacle that there would be no one to decide that there was a really new building office on the green meadow. And I want to say, like Ivan Adamec, that I don't suffer from the chimeric idea that the state does things better than the regions or communities do. And I could put a lot of these examples here. The state in many cases does things objectively worse, makes them longer, makes them more formalistic. And when you say that you want to formalize in the original building bill or in the design that went through last year, the building administration, and you're doing it in the way of the creation of a new building office, there's no risk that formalism will be less. The opposite is true. We are in danger of falling into much more formalism. Reality of current building permits. If you look at functional offices, and they are significantly more dysfunctional than they are, because otherwise they wouldn't be built in that country, you'll find that coordinated negotiations usually take place at the ORP level. Among other things, the position that is needed today and which we are repealing as a coordinated opinion of all the individual environmental authorities concerned is happening, even in many offices coordinated opinions are being put together across expertise, and this significantly improves the situation for the citizen, for the applicant who is coming there. And what we were based on in designing our opposition proposal was based on this good practice, on a specific analysis, on the knowledge of how it works on individual well-functioning ORPs. And we're supposed to be aiming to put together on the basis of good examples of the functioning of the system as a whole. And to this came a variant based on the digitization of the building process, a builder who brings in a number of important control elements, informal control elements, because they are evident for anyone who, as a builder, asks for a building permit, because, as in Finland, as in Canada and in many other countries of the world, can see on one screen and monitor the digital footprint of the expression of individual officials in the various bodies concerned, with the evident preservation of the trace of the decision-making. That's the way we went. We don't need to move them to a new superformal construction agency. We need them to be able to make decisions together and to put together the finals in the form of building permits in the shortest possible time for citizens. What we are putting forward now is a concrete proposal to postpone, but with it goes work on a form that should take precisely into account the interests of citizens in the first place, entrepreneurs and developers and all investors who have to build, because, of course, it is a public interest, it is the interest of citizens to grow buildings that serve people, whether in the form of investors of state, regional, urban or individual citizens. I consider this to be very important, and the path that we discussed, which, for the most part, is completely common. There was a significant consensus on the digitization of the building process in this Chamber of Deputies, or in the previous one, but in the walls of this Chamber, as well as in the Senate, but it hit exactly the moment when the new authority was given to the new State Building Office, which is so-called depolitical, but when we look at how some so-called depoliticized state construction offices work, you will find that in many cases it is a pitiful situation. One particular example. Deciding on the construction, which represents a clear priority for all of us - Prague Road Circuit, construction 511. Unfortunately, there has been a filing of systemic bias, and at that time the central authority, the central authority of the state administration, decided on who the case would be assigned to. How long did he decide? A week? Maybe that'd be a good thing, a case like that. Decision not to decide the City Council of Prague or the Regional Authority of the Central Bohemia Region, who can deal with it? There's a legal deadline within 30 days. And you know how long it's been? Four months. Four months in a situation where it was a common interest. And that's one of the many times I say it doesn't stand for the state to do it better, it just doesn't have to do it better. When you look at equipment and processes in a number of urban authorities, whether municipalities with extended scope or even smaller municipal and urban authorities, there is often a very well-founded official, there is very often better computer technology than the state authorities, central government authorities. This is all reality, because people on the outskirts, towns and villages know well that if they do not have functional offices, citizens will come to them and complain in the first place. Moreover, for a number of these particular authorities, direct responsibility is direct responsibility, direct responsibility for how the authorities operate. And I'm not mad at the citizens complaining about the mayor when something's not working. Indeed, it is appropriate for the mayor through the secretary to apply the correction of matters in order to comply with deadlines and the like. And I reject the defamation of self-governments that they apply influence to how they decide, because if they do, so many buildings are not growing today and we are not in the current state. Yes, there are cases where it doesn't work well. It's up to us to distinguish it accurately and offer the right solution. I will stress the consensus, because we will certainly maintain it in a modified form. There's a consensus that the ping-pong principle can't work and that there's supposed to be a functional appeal principle. At the same time, the consensus is that the processes are to be united ideally on one stamp. Of course, even in the current model, it will not really be one stamp, because another, but agreed binding opinions, in the case of buildings that are, for example, in national parks or which are in protected landscape areas, will enter into this. There is an agreement that the scale of the stamps should really remain, should not be extended, but cannot be reduced beyond that agreement, because it could simply also mean a restriction on the application of public interests. Of course, we agree that a number of partial decisions are not to be reviewed, because then it creates a great legal uncertainty for all those who want to build. I'm getting to the finals of what I wanted to say in a hurry. It really is up to us to find a solution that is appropriate for key partners, where it will be possible for citizens to find practical solutions to ensure the performance of state administration in the field of construction procedures at the level of cities, regions and also of the state. We are working hard on this, and today's move is just a technical way of not letting the state throw out senseless funds for creating a formal megastructure, which not only doesn't ensure better functioning in itself, and again I could point out that it never happened that merely the creation of an office solved the problem - it simply didn't solve it. It's a chimera. What the previous building office has brought, the previous, currently discussed new building law, is not really a conceptual view of the organisation of the public administration. This is only an intervention in the current model at a specific point and it creates a dramatic response to all those who will decide in the future. [[11.20 hours]] Yes, I also call for a meeting at a common table, because otherwise it cannot be, and find a suitable solution, which will be done with the necessary respect primarily to citizens, but logically also to those who will make decisions in those processes, as they do today. And if this model, as unfortunately it is in the present new construction law, is out of control and is not acceptable to key players, then of course this is a mistake that needs to be corrected. At the end of the day, there is a common interest in building key structures in the Czech Republic, especially in a situation where we will face an even more dramatic situation in the context of the refugee crisis, where we are to pay off historical infrastructure debt. But the path is not a nonsystemic hacking of a mixed model, the path lies in the use of proven trips from abroad, digitization of building management and a proper realistic view of how to make it work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u79	Thank you, Minister. I'm recording three factual points. First of all, Mr Karel Havlíček will appear, Berenika Peštová and others will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u80	I thank Minister Kupek for the discussion, but he confirmed in principle what we said. We have a completely different opinion about this. You play for the authorities, you play for the mayors, and undoubtedly among them are a number of excellent mayors who do it very well and right, and I dare say that you are one of them, and we play for the citizens, because we say that it is easier to set one model, one system, controlled from the centre, and at the same time that the mayors, respectively the municipalities, use the model of territorial decision-making. That's exactly right. I don't know what's weird about us trying to unite it. It's not true at all, Minister, what you said, how much money we're going to save. Your model, and you know that it is calculated several times, among other things the team of Professor Mejstřík, will cost us several billion extra crowns. And as good mayors are, unfortunately, not everyone can handle it, we could finally see it in the last few days that it is not always entirely reliable. That is why we are proposing this system, which, in our opinion, is simpler, faster for everyone, cheaper, and I do not know why you are so resolutely resisting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u81	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Klára Dostálová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u82	Thank you. I listened carefully. In any case, there is no dispute. You're saying civil servants won't solve it, but they're the state officials who are on those oerpéches that are on those regions. Those are the civil servants where the delegated authority is, so if it's built, it'll be built on the officials you said were the right ones, because they're good at it and they work well. But what you've put forward here today will only cause legal chaos. Like you always say - and I don't like it very much, but I guess I'm gonna have to identify with it - it's an incredible mess, because you're basically just coming up with what? You come up with the fact that you want to make an efficiency that has already been acquired 1. 1. 2022, was extended by a year. In the legal order, you're gonna make an incredible mess. There's gonna be laws that don't apply anymore, and we're supposed to follow them. There's gonna be some interpretations. What's that? Whoever is an interpreter of the law is a court, and not that we're going to do an interpretation here on something that's going to pay, even if it doesn't apply long ago, we're going to move what's going on retroactively. It's gonna be such a mess you're gonna cause. That's what bothers me. You, on the one hand, say: we will not be as governments were before us, that is, we will go through a proper legislative process, internal commentary, inter-respective. Then you put in a pasquil that didn't even pass the Government's Legislative Council. The Minister of the Legislative Council of the Government will grant himself an exception, which is already the top - an exception to himself so that it does not have to go to the Legislative Council and gives the opinion that it will cause chaos. [[Time.]] That's what's bothering me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u83	Thank you. Mrs Klára Dostálová will now appear and Minister Martin Kupka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u84	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to be very fast, too. The aim of this law was to eliminate all threats of potential delay. There's no need to explain system bias, yes or no. I'd just like so much to get the right words that have been said here. Please, let's not confuse systemic bias and bias as such. Systemic bias - even the Supreme Administrative Court said that it was a big mistake in 2000 to put building rights in a mixed model, that there was the origin. The bias itself means that someone is a neighbor, that the structure interferes with his normal life, and that someone is a clerk, that will always exist. It's always, it's impossible to eliminate. But systemic bias, that's the clash between two universes. Therefore, for example, in Slovakia, the municipality must not allow itself projects, because there is a huge conflict in the scope of authorisation. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned - I'm sorry, through you, Mr President - the decision on a system of bias for four months, so it gave me a smile on my lip. So the MMR didn't make it or the Ministry of Transport, it took four months, so we're gonna do more work for them, they're gonna be reviewed, they're gonna be appeals, and then they're gonna actually decide on systemic bias for years, because, of course, the ministry officials aren't representative. They are not, therefore there is a need for a uniform structure of the state construction administration. And I certainly don't know where you got the information, Minister of Transport, that we're gonna build a new office, that we're gonna have to find new people there. Please, we have 1,300 construction offices in the Czech Republic and 13,000 people work there. They're still the same people, they're just gonna be concentrated under one government construction agency. And just a little comment on Mr Adamc, by your means, Mr President. The MP said he didn't know any cases of systemic bias, I'm sorry. He is a representative of the Hradec Králové Region, let him remember in Hradec Králové on Milet and the large square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u85	Thank you. Minister Martin Kupka will now speak with a point of fact and Mr David Štolpa will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u86	Very briefly on the words of Vice-President Havlíček. The citizens pay the most when they stop or cripple the issue of building permits, and that is exactly what the Ministry of Interior pointed out in its rather extensive study in the previous period. It also documented what the costs of the process of creating a new building office would be - yes, some people will pass, but even the previous surveys showed that they were willing to do a maximum of 40 percent. This will therefore make the new building office very difficult to create. As for the costs expressed by the Ministry of the Interior, these went to tens of billions of crowns and secondary impacts, which, for example, would cause paralysis in the issuing of building permits, the Ministry of the Interior estimated at more than 200 billion crowns. These are the facts that your coalition Ministry of the Interior, and therefore the central body of the state administration, published back then. When Mrs Peštová here criticized our proposal through legislative procedures, we all know how unfortunately he saw the light of day of the present new building law discussed, which was actually based on a comprehensive amendment read by Martin Kolovratník, who also did not go through the whole standard legislative process, even though it was a major breakthrough in the concept of the original building law. So let's be honest, let's say that the task is to find a way out, and here I stress again, our interest is the same as Vice-President Havlíček declared, to find a good solution for citizens. That's what we're watching at the moment we're looking for a way to simplify the construction process. And, please, don't blame us for something that's so untrue, and I think you're just knocking yourself out. [[Time.]] Thank you again for understanding the arguments I made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u87	Thank you. Mr David Štolpa will now appear, Mr Radek Vondráček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u88	Thank you for the floor. I will return to the debate a little bit further, and by your means I would respond to the Minister. Minister, you questioned here that the press was not assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development during the last parliamentary term, then you questioned what Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová said. I was one of the Members involved. I haven't received a single press in my entire last term as a member of the public administration. After you were brought to the attention, I was assigned a House press, which was known in advance that he would not go to plenary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u89	Thank you. Mr Radek Vondráček will now appear and prepare Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u90	Thank you for the floor. Minister Kupka, you said the facts and let's be honest with each other. I was not in the construction law, I was in a different position, however, according to my information within the framework of the RIA study there is a study based on which the change of the mixed model, the reform of the state administration, will bring up to 7 000 working administrative positions - it will be able to be cancelled because it will not be necessary to have them. And there's a number, 10 billion social costs a year can be saved if it's followed by the existing law. Is it there or isn't it there in the RIA study? Up to 7,000 jobs, up to half. If Klára says we're talking about 13,000, up to 7,000 clerks right now. How much did this government cancel? First 74 added to the Office of the Government, you added the Deputys, you added the Vice-Presidents, and now a line came up saying that some 400 official positions would be cancelled. Well, I don't know if it's gonna be the poor hygiene guys that were written about or not, but this is 7,000 versus 400. You wanted to save money, so please respond to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u91	Thank you. Mrs Klára Dostálová will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u92	Thank you. I'm sorry, but if it's facts, it's facts, okay? So, of course, we were terrifyingly waiting for the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities to set up a survey on how it would turn out, well, and how surprised we were, weren't we? It finally came out in favour of the proposal, because 40 percent of people are going to pass, 30 percent aren't, that they want to stay in the village, and another percent are going to retire, because there is this huge problem that people are actually getting old at construction offices. Well, what's the finding when a new building bill needs only 5 to 6,000 people instead of 13,000 people, which, of course, is about 40 percent, so we're just ideally getting there. So, on the contrary, we were very pleased with the survey. The second thing you said here, Mr. Transport Secretary - the Home Office models. So to be perfectly clear, the model you're proposing would cost CZK 3.8 billion. I'm just saying again that around 4 billion is already being paid for the exercise of the delegated power in the field of construction law, our model of 4.1 billion crowns. You keep saying 20 billion, but that's what the Home Office said that all construction agencies would have to build again on a green meadow. What bullshit! So please, the 4.1 billion crowns is only because we're increasing by one grade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u93	Thank you. I am currently not seeing any factual comment or application with priority rights, and we will therefore proceed in the debate according to the duly registered ones. Mr Radek Vondráček will speak first and Mr Robert Stržínek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u94	Thank you, Mr President, for seeing me. I checked in yesterday, so I'm glad it was my turn. The advantage for everyone here is that I've partially forgotten what I really wanted to say during the debate. But we have enriched the discussion of terms as a destruction of the public administration system, as a scumbag of the building law. By the way, Mr. Colleague, 25 amendments have suffered the construction law and the result is the frustration of all of us. I don't think there's a person in this country who wouldn't mind that these formal, conditional processes with lots of stamps last disproportionately long and hinder development. The word paskvil came from my colleague here, so I would like to join the debate with the term that I consider the material we are discussing and the proposal as a legislative crime. I believe that the way in which this press is presented and, above all, what it contains is absolutely unpredictable as far as the impact on practice is concerned. I would like to talk a little bit, calm down the debate, say my piece, and I would like to focus on legitimate expectations and legal certainty in the Czech Republic. To begin with, I will not forgive the citation from page 52 - I believe, yes - of this government's programming statement, which wrote: "We will increase the quality of legislation. We will carefully consider each new regulation on the basis of an analysis of the expected impacts. The legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration shall be submitted by standard legislative means and shall be made available to the Government by experts within the Government Legislative Council before submitting them to the Government.'; Following is the opinion of the Prime Minister's President of the Legislative Council on the bill amending the construction law, which we are discussing at the moment. And it says: "The bill proposal was not discussed in a commentary procedure on the basis of an exception granted by the President of the Legislative Council of the Government. The petitioner suggests that, due to the urgency of time, the bill should be discussed in such a way that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of the Act on Rules of Procedure, as amended by Act No. 40/2000 has already agreed in the first reading. The draft law was not discussed by the Working Commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government for time reasons. The President of the Legislative Council of the Government has decided in accordance with Article 4 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (a) and (c) the Statute of the Legislative Council of the Government that this proposal will not be discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government and that the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government will be drawn up on it, as it is an urgent regulation which does not take the form of a comprehensive law but is merely an amendment to the transitional provisions governing the period of application of the legal provisions in respect of which the proposed proposal is not affected." Yeah, but there's a two-way street that we've been talking about all along that's gonna cause incredible interpretational problems in practice. I will also briefly quote from the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council: "The proposed specific design of the division of efficiency" - it is called a specific design of the division of efficiency, for those of you who do not yet know it - 'the respect of the applicability of the law, the construction law, contained in the proposed provision of Section 334a, may lead to practical problems, since the assessment of which parts of the law will be applicable and in relation to which types of buildings, especially in the case of a set of buildings, namely buildings related, and in what time period, will probably be very difficult. The proposed substantive solution is a matter of political decision," says the President of the LRV's opinion. From a legislative point of view, it is noted that more practical and more comprehensible and easier for addressees of legislation would be to postpone the effectiveness of the new regulation of the construction law as a whole, including Act No. 284/2021 amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law. The proposal envisages partially delaying the effectiveness of the construction law, but does not contain the current postponement of the effectiveness of the so-called accompanying law, i.e. the law amending the legal connection with the adoption of the construction law. In the case of the chosen material solution and given the complexity of the so-called accompanying law, it would not be possible to only partially postpone its effectiveness, so the very position of the Prime Minister's President is contradictory and controversial. Therefore, I would like to briefly talk about legal certainty and legitimate expectations and in the legal order of the Czech Republic, because when you tell people and explain it to citizens, they do not always understand what legitimate expectations are, what legal certainty is, but it is sad when lawmakers do not know it when the Legislative Council of the Government does not know it. These proposals raise concerns about the fate of the buildings, the legal certainty of the builders and the certainty of the employment of certain officials. There is a real risk that officials will be in a vacuum and will not be paid. There is a risk that there will not be an office that should be able to issue certain permits and to paralyze the building process. This is also highlighted in his opinion by the President of the LRV and the new Minister for Legislation. [[11.40 hours]] Nevertheless, the government, although it is the proposal of the Minister for the Pirate Party and the criticism of his party colleague, essentially passed on these bad proposals to the Chamber of Deputies with its consent. The builders could end up asking for a court, and it has already been said by my colleague Peštová to tell them how to apply, for example in the case of a municipality for a water supply for a firehouse. This is because the proposals do not address the accompanying law and completely ignore it. The risk he warns about in his opinion applies not only to building permits but also to territorial plans, and the chaos that would arise is, in fact, hard to predict today's optics. Let me quote it once again from the LRV's opinion: "The problem concerns, for example, provisions on water pipes and sewers that apply to buildings which are part of virtually all construction permit procedures - for example, water or sewerage connections are in virtually every construction. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u95	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but the noise in the O.R. is quite high. I will ask above all the right part of the hall for silence. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u96	The extent of the unsolvable application problem is great. I think it can really be very serious. This means that agendas that have nowhere to go would be excluded from the combined model. A filing separation, that means handing over documentation led by the authorities, could also be in a time discrepancy, and I fear others at first sight difficult to identify problems. And I can't imagine it at all without discussing how it was proposed that the proposal should have gone under Section 90. I absolutely don't understand that the government even considered this kind of procedure. In his opinion, the President of the LRV considers that there would seem to be some interpretation amendment to these other laws, but it is unimaginable. How could anyone, a citizen, a state, a clerk, a businessman, confess to a law that, although valid and effective, would not apply because the interpretation of another law would lead to another conclusion and another application? What it opens up is not the rule of law, but really the legal chaos that we should have here together in some way - I don't know yet, but there has to be an agreement - to prevent. It almost leads to consideration, if it wouldn't be better to break all the laws, let it all be dealt with by some interpretation. In the opinion of a number of lawyers, such a proposal is contrary to the Constitution because it does not provide legal certainty and contradicts the principle of legitimate expectations. To that legitimate expectation - Professor Gerloch formulated five postulates to fulfil the rule of law for legal certainty: the certainty that a good right will be created, the certainty that no one will be restricted in his rights without legal reasons, the certainty that acquired rights will be investigated, the certainty that everyone can exercise his rights, and the certainty that everyone who violates the law will be fairly affected. What's a good right? The fundamental principle of democratic rule of law and the fundamental standard basis of value for law. People are free and equal in dignity and rights. The formal aspects of good law, for example, are limitless, which is good to remember in this context, indisputability, once again a problem, consistency. Good law is stable - the necessary basis for legal certainty. Stability of constitutional law, stability of laws and stability of interpretation of law. The quality of law also makes the fulfilment of other attributes of legal certainty conditional. In general, the individual elements of legal certainty are linked containers. Legal certainty is a requirement laid down by the Constitution on the rule of law and its application. It is understood by such a situation where the objective and subjective law of natural and legal persons is long-term stable, uniform, relatively simple and predictable and thus fulfills the legitimate expectations of natural and legal persons. [[Noise in the hall.]] This may seem like a boring lecture to you, but these are things that every right-holder should know and respect in the first place, otherwise we get into a conflict with constitutional order. Of course, it is not possible to achieve maximum legal certainty in the legal system that is undergoing transformation, which was needed in our country after 1989. Often regulations are complicated, inconspicuous, quickly changing. The courts, the authorities decide. But I ask, after 30 years since 1989, are we still in this situation? The principle of fulfilling a legitimate legitimate - I say legitimate - expectation is an expression of a more general requirement of legal certainty and is understood to mean a situation where both objective law and subjective law of natural persons and legal persons are stable, uniform, simple, predictable and so the expectations are fulfilled. Repetition is the mother of wisdom. I'll probably say it here at first, second and third reading, if there's no compromise between the coalition and the opposition. This principle may, by the way, prevent tax laws from changing to the detriment of taxpayers during the accounting year, change the conditions of the selection procedure after payment of the entry fee or the selection procedures unduly cancel and so on. As an example of such bad practice, I can mention, for example, the Road Act, which introduced an electronic toll system with effect from 1 January 2007, but on previous road signs it was stated: End and validity on 31 January 2007. That means it was directly contrary to the principle of legitimate expectations. But this example was essentially marginal, small, against what deep intervention this amendment could mean in the construction proceedings and construction law in the Czech Republic. In its numerous judgments, the Constitutional Court introduces the concept of legal certainty from the first paragraph of the article of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which states that the Czech Republic is a sovereign, uniform and democratic rule of law based on respect for the rights and freedom of man and citizen. It is in the commitment of the rule of law that the Constitutional Court sees the source of legal certainty in the Czech Republic, when it explains on the basis of theoretical principles that legal certainty is one of the integral features of the rule of law. Legal certainty is understood by the degree of predictability, the extent to which the entity of the law can rely that the specific case will always be treated in the same way that the judge will decide on the same matter tomorrow as he has decided on it today. Legal certainty does not necessarily mean justice; rather, it is an expression of reliability. The issue of legal continuity is important in this regard, which is particularly disturbed by events of the nature of the historical divide, as I said a moment ago. I would also like to say that the need for such a guarantee is very clear especially in today's world, when the value of morality in interpersonal and, above all, international communication is greatly retreating to economic interests. Only a solid and functional rule of law will allow the state to be seen as a reliable partner around the world, which is extremely important in the financial field. This also applies, of course, to construction proceedings, to construction legislation. A country in which there is no legal certainty can now hardly count on foreign investment or the help of neighbouring states, since no one dares to entrust their money in the hands of someone who can't guarantee that he can get it back, perhaps because the law under which he borrowed it today will no longer apply tomorrow. So much for my boring legal lecture, which I partly directed to a colleague of the Minister and President of the Legislative Council of the Government, because I learned about it from my CV that he is also a teacher at my alma mater, Masaryk University, and he lectures on intellectual property. And, for example, Brno lawyers and university educators Jan Hurdík and Petr Lavický in 2010 consider legal certainty as one of the most important principles of the rule of law and stress that it needs to be taken into account not only at every moment of lawmaking, but then also during its application and interpretation. I still had a brief quote prepared from the discussion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, but since I did not expect that factual remarks would be so widespread during our discussion, then perhaps in private or in the context of some factual comment. [[11.50 hours]] But I would only be very briefly from the other keg. Mr Výborný warned me that the study under the RIA, a model which is contained there and which states that half of the official posts will not really be needed, relates to the original law and does not apply to the new one. But I don't think the resulting difference will be significant. And the study was crucial. If you're talking about 7,000, half. The rapporteur said that 13,000 people are working in the sector, in the construction offices, so half of them are less than 7,000, even if it needs to be influenced by any other amendments that have been discussed here, but I don't think it will be essential. And I think that the argument that there will be 10 billion in the social processes, that the stamps will not circulate, that all the authorities will not be used, that they will save themselves in society every year, so I think that the conclusion is valid, because it is a simplification of the building procedure, simplification and concentration of the building procedure. The government states that it wants to be a government that will save, which will save public funds. At the last meeting of the government, it was announced that over 400 official positions would be saved, but what is 400 against 7,000? Because if you want to save your job as a clerk, you have to cancel your agenda. You can't leave all the agendas and let people down at the same time, that's just not how it works. And everyone who reads works about the demise of civilizations, so notice that one of the basic signs of civilization's demise is always a rampant bureaucracy. Civilization in its conclusion will smack so much and adopt so many bureaucratic rules that it will basically kill itself. And we're gathered here today to defend ourselves and to save the good from the law. I just don't understand one thing, and that's the two-track thing - and it's already been said here by my colleague Havlíček. So why reserved buildings, why large buildings are supposed to have the advantage and benefit of new legislation, and all of us who build family houses that we build garages will still be moving in the rules of so many times the test building law, as Adamec, said, 25 times the amended one, which doesn't actually work at all? And that will be the result of the discussion? Well, don't be surprised we're getting off here, and don't be surprised we have a problem with that. I'll read you something else from the government's programming statement, this time at the beginning, if you've forgotten it: "We want a state that is smart, efficient and economical. We want Czech families to have a place to live. We do not close our eyes to the problems that people in our country have, and housing has recently been one of them. We will bring solutions that will help both ownership and rental housing, including social housing. The most important thing at the moment is the crucial acceleration of the building procedure." That's the government's programming statement. [[He's pointing.]] And I consider the proposal we are discussing today to be completely incompatible with the government's government's agenda. I think the Prime Minister of this country, who is not here today, should comment on this. That is why I am making a procedural motion to interrupt the negotiations until the Prime Minister is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will register your procedural proposal and put it to a vote. First, I'm going to unsign you all... [[Member Excellent reporting.]] If you're proposing a change in the procedural proposal, please. A counterproposal? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u98	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Government, Minister, fellow Members, I have listened carefully to Mr Vondráček... He's signaling something to me, I don't know what it is right now... [[Noise in the hall, Members coming into the hall. Help from the diaper: Vondraček!]] Vondráček, of course. I said V. That's the bad acoustics in the hall. Of course, we know each other. I listened to Mr Radek Vondráček, including his final procedural proposal, on which, of course, he has the right under Section 63 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. [[With an emphasis on V.]] We will deal with this under the President's procedure, i.e. the vote. However, I would like to express the conviction here that the need for partial delay in the effectiveness of the building bill was well enough to justify the need for a partial delay in the building bill by the Vice Prime Minister and Minister Ivan Bartoš, and there is no reason why the Prime Minister should comment on this very specialized matter. Mr Vondráček also knows that the Prime Minister still represents us at the Brussels European Summit if I have information at the moment. I think that the Minister's statement - and I must say, in fact, a very detailed analysis and analysis of the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka - was quite sufficient. Therefore, allow me to propose a counter-proposal on this procedural proposal - again under Rule 63 of the Rules of Procedure - to propose an interruption of this point, but not in the regime as proposed, but until 11.58. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u99	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else has a motion to vote? I can't see. First, I'm going to check you all out, I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll wait for the number of applicants to settle... The number is stable. We will therefore first vote on the procedural proposal, or on the counter-proposal of President Excellent, on the interruption of this point by 11.58. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 77; 155 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 3, against 56. The motion was denied. We will therefore now vote on the original proposal, and that is the proposal that this item be interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 78, 157 Members of Parliament have signed up, in favour of proposal 68, against 89. This procedural proposal has not been agreed with. And we will continue to discuss this point and I note here Mr Radek Vondráček's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, my friends, we are getting a lot of trouble here, and that is a long justification for, say, technical counterproposals. I don't think this is the first time this has happened in this House. One of the basic principles and rules in the Rules of Procedure is that a procedural proposal is put to the vote immediately. Now we're not gonna figure this out, I'm just gonna ask that the grémium of the Chamber of Deputies actually be devoted to this thing, to look at the records of how it was progressed, and I think we've witnessed today that it's been used twice. You just have a majority, so you outvote us, fair enough. But in this way, and until they're smiling to extend the justification for the proposals, I don't think they're part of the meeting. So let's go -- we're not, I'm not a member of the Gremia -- but please, I'd really like it to be addressed by the Gremium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u101	Thank you. I note a number of factual points, which means that President Marek Benda will speak first, then President Jakub Michálek and then any prior rights. Well, wait a minute before I turn on your time machine. Please, Mr. Chairman, speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u102	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond quickly to my colleague Vondráček. It just takes some time to get back to the O.R., and we don't have to do what you're talking about and what has nothing to do with reality all the time. It's perfectly legitimate, it's always been like this, and I don't see the least reason why it shouldn't be. A procedural proposal that alters your proposal, which you try to stop the law, has always been accepted here. So I don't see why we should be dealing with something here on political grémia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u103	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek, Minister Marian Jurečka, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u104	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to the speech of the previous speaker, Mr Vondráček, and what is happening here, that there is constantly proposed interruptions with this, after each speech, so that all Members must always run into the hall and test most of the government coalition. Of course, it means that colleagues, all colleagues, including the elders, have to sprint, including the ladies with heels and so on. I suggest we go another way! Let's talk about, say, the physical education program, sprinting and maintaining the physical fitness of the Members. I think we're gonna find a much better way than running all over the house all the time. We're gonna have some races together, and we're gonna keep everybody in shape. We will be healthier and more useful to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u105	Hello from me. Have a nice noon. We will continue with factual remarks. The next one is registered by Minister Jurečka. Minister, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u106	Thank you very much. I'll put it back a little bit into some rational debate and gentlemen's debate. The fact that sometimes the opposition tests the presence of Members on points where speakers speak for a long time, even in the evening, is an old practice here, we can all work with that. But I will ask Radek Vondráček, who spoke here in his long speech about things to have a legal framework, to have some clarity of predictability, readability and the like, we have heard here for tens of minutes, so when he asks for something to negotiate with Gremia, I will ask my colleague Radek Vondráček, through the President: Please give nicely for you the information, how many times in the last period of the opposition has asked to interrupt the point when there was no Prime Minister who was on a foreign trip to the summit in Brussels. Show us in four years! We didn't do it! We did it with other members of the government, yes, but if the Prime Minister properly represented the Czech Republic at the summit, whether the European Council or NATO, this was not done. That was a gentleman's deal that was honored here. You don't honor her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u107	Next in line with the factual remark of Mr Vondráček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u108	Thank you. I wanted to respond originally to Marek Benda, but we'll take it from the same water. I was touched by my colleague Michálek's contribution to the story with the heels and the older ones. So I apologize to a colleague who wears heels. Of course, those sitting around me are saying, "Well, wouldn't it be better if you were sitting here when we're MPs and we're sitting at work? A second reminder and a response to my colleague Benda, and I would like him to realize what he said. He was here telling me that I was talking about something unrealistic and that they didn't have to listen to it here. My friends, I was talking here about the legitimacy of expectations and legal certainty in the Czech Republic. And Mr. Benda will say that I was talking about something unrealistic? Are we really looking forward to this? This? The whole government that legal certainty in this country is something unrealistic? So I want you to... That's why I said it on the tape screen to make it sound. I thank Mr Jurečka for saying that sometimes the opposition tests the coalition if it is present in the hall, that it has always been so. It was done and done, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, in completely different... [[Warning from the O.R. that the man is presiding.]] ... Mr, Mr President, in fact - this is the second time today, we will be careful - this has been done in the past on a much more massive scale than he remembers not only the previous term, but the previous periods. This means that I am almost certain that the opposition even had a problem that an extraordinary meeting had been convened - I called it according to how the opposition wanted it, but because the Prime Minister was in Brussels, so, of course, they were mad at me. But I fully granted them that I did it when they wanted the emergency meeting. And I think that the example of asking for an interruption to the Prime Minister's presence... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] ...and he was abroad, I'm sure we'll find him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u109	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Peštová. Madam, please. And I'll ask for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u110	I also wanted to respond to Mr Michálek, through Mr President. And we're waving... [[Resurrection in the hall, several Members wave to visitors at the gallery.]] First we're running, now we're waving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u111	Madam, I will give you a few more seconds to greet the young in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u112	It's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u113	Perhaps it will not adversely affect them in their development. [[Loud laughter and applause.]] Well, Madame, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u114	So I also wanted to respond to Mr Michálek's Members, who probably already went somewhere so that he could run away. In any case, this is your... oh, sorry, so sorry, through Mr President... [[To MP Michálek.]] ...you were overshadowed. [[Laughter and revival in the hall.]] In any case, it is your proposal, it is your amendment to the law, and it is expected that the person who submits should have Members here more than the opposition, of the nature of the matter. It's your law you want to change. We're sitting here honest and debating and the fact that you're running from somewhere is your problem, not our problem. I've already got the grid on the back of my head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u115	Thank you, too, Madame. President Schillerová canceled her point of order. Another point of fact is made by Mr Cogan. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u116	Dear colleagues, I think that only one who has the good faith, who also has the good faith in the matter, can seek it. And if our colleague here was talking about a matter that we should keep discussing it - he didn't have good faith either about whether or not we're here, he knows we're here. And if we want to stretch out, and you said that you're sitting here honestly, and I don't think you were sitting here honestly, your colleague was sitting here honestly, but otherwise there were only a few people from your club sitting here, so you're not sitting here, and you're in the neighborhood. You may have come to sit down because you've organized an event for some time that you've arranged with a colleague who was just here at the counter, that at this point, so you've come here just before, but I reserve that I've made a specific amendment here before, and you've attacked me here again that it's counterproposal, and more. And I'll read you Article 63 (3). 2. Here it was undoubtedly a proposal for a continuance, there was undoubtedly a proposal for a continuance, and there it is clearly written under point (b): "The amendment to this proposal may be tabled for a period of his continuance or a condition to be fulfilled before the proposal is discussed." I made the amendment to the deadline. I actually made a statement according to the Rules of Procedure, even though I didn't have it with me at the time, and here I was thinking that I should have said counterproposal and other things. [[12.10 hours]] O.K., are there any dentures, and those names, just why the amendment, you call it a counterproposal? It's okay. But you can't demand any Members, whether they were here or not, to know the dentures you put here, which aren't actually written anywhere. O. k., both things are being used, but simply an amendment to the amendment to the adjournment is clearly possible. And at that point, if the five of us come to make the proposal, it's gonna be... But if we want to behave with dignity... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] ... so let's deal with it so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u117	Thank you. Mr Benda is next in line with the factual point, Mr Nacher is prepared and Mr Fiala is followed. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u118	I do not want to delay this, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, but the task of a Member is not to sit in these benches, which are not entirely comfortable. We all have transfers to all offices, and if our colleague Vondráček wants to train us when to come here, it is completely legitimate, I do not question it, but do not tell us that an amendment cannot be tabled against this. This has always been respected, and it has always been so, and let it not tell us that since they've made a point, it must never change, because it's legitimate expectations. I consider it a complete, complete delusion and nonsense, and especially in the organization of the state authorities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u119	Next in line, Mr Nacher. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u120	[[Notes from the diaper.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't... Yes, so I'll forgive myself for one sentence, save you ten seconds. You know what I was gonna say. [[Laughter.]] Well, I don't have a grid on my ass like my colleague, because I've also been catching up, on the other hand, I have to say, first of all, there's always been a habit of voting on procedural proposals immediately, that's what it is. And it doesn't really matter - that's why the Rules of Procedure, every time we talk about it, I say it consistently, so they're always supposed to change from the next term, not immediately, so that it doesn't reflect whether the Member in question is in opposition or coalition at the time, so that he doesn't do it with any calculation. And here we've always respected it. When we were in the coalition, we were always catching up, it's like that, just like you guys are. I've been catching up, too, and I've even gotten to be one of you who's slower, ahead of the stairs, and I don't brag... [[Fun.]] Too bad there's no cameras in the hallway, so we can prove it, and I'm not bragging about it like Jakub Michálek. But what bothers me is that it's just part of it. I understand that not everyone can sit here and want to sit, but it's part of some sort of meeting here between the opposition and the coalition. Let's see how many times you've had a procedural proposal here in the last parliamentary term. Everyone's been running around here, ringing the bell and all, but making fun of it that way, and that's why I'm here on the microphone, which is why I'm talking about how Jakub Michálek did it, I find it undignified. That's why people don't like politicians because we're supposed to sit here in general. If it's right here or 10 meters away, it doesn't matter, but we're supposed to be sitting here. Excusing ourselves to do some gym class here is disparaging the work of a Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u121	Time, Mr. Ambassador! Thank you. Next in line - Mr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u122	I basically wanted to say something similar to Patrik Nacher. I will just go back to Mr Cogan, through Mr President, that because I was filing him, the procedural proposal was not for adjournment, it was for interruption. That, Mr. Ambassador, is two more paragraphs. Try reading the whole thing, the article, just so you know. And as for last term, what Patrik Nacher said, I remember - and I also wanted to speak to what President Michálek said here - because I remember how his vice-chairman, Mr Ferjenčík, trained us here in exactly the same procedural vote that had to be immediate. Here you can just see exactly how you can bend the law when you need it when I'm 108, and I don't think it's right that we're bending something because we need to bend it now. And that's wrong. And I'm joining Patrik Nacher for pulling up the tapes - not to bend or straighten things up, but to look in the mirror and see how you did it a few months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u123	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Vondráček, Mr Cogan will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u124	And the waste of time when we add it up is quite significant. Two comments. First of all, I think it's lost in the catching up, Mr. Benda. If you heard it properly, you'd know that I didn't question the fact that someone could make a difference and that it was a threat to legal certainty. I have challenged the double-trackness and partial delay of effectiveness, when your opinion of your President of the Legislative Council states that it can lead to interpretational problems, and that is still very nice and lightly suggested. Interpretative and interpretational problems can be huge, and that is why I was talking about legal certainty and legitimacy of legal expectations. As for the second part, I guess we didn't listen to each other again. I did not question the possibility of a procedural proposal and counter-proposal, however, the Rules of Procedure also say that the vote is taken immediately, and I have proposed, I think very rightly that it would be very good to think about and discuss whether it is okay to justify such proposals. And you're going to say to me, "We don't see any reason to discuss it with you on a political gréma." And that is the essence of what is happening in this Chamber of Deputies! You don't talk to us, you don't communicate with us, and then you complain about all the night shifts. It's just the basics of communication, and not here to tell me right now, we're not even gonna talk about it with you. Of course, we can work like this for four years. You can do it, we can do it, but try to think about yourself, when I'm basically giving you a hand here and I say, it would be good to talk about it on the grémium, I wasn't offensive in any way, and the first reaction that's, well, we're not gonna talk about it at all! As you wish!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u125	Another point of fact is made by Mr Cogan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u126	So I'll be shorter, I hope. I wanted to say to those words that it would be good if we could find a decent solution. Personally to me, maybe I'm not so fucked up here, it seems ridiculous catching up. I'm a pretty decent athlete, even though I don't look like one, but I just... If there's any solution that's rational in this direction, I'll just welcome it. But I will still respond to my colleague, through the President, that it was a proposal - a colleague of the Fiala, who left it here now - that it is a proposal to interrupt. It is simply a motion for a adjournment that the Member proposes that the proposal under discussion should not be decided immediately, but that it should be dealt with either in the next, at a later time, expressed by a specific time limit or by a condition which must first be met. Basically, it is clearly a block as a proposal for a continuance, even if it is a proposal for interruption. We have here defined in this section 63 what kind of proposals are. So if he was telling us the information... And if Vondráček proposal, through the President, is to vote on it, it simply has to be comprehensive. And that proposal doesn't immediately mean until the moment it's known what's to be voted on. On this proposal, x may be counterproposals, and only when all the counterproposals are tabled or not counterproposals, but the amendments, so at that point it is ripe to be voted on immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u127	That was the last point of fact. I saw Minister Bartoš report, so I wanted to ask if he applied with a priority... He didn't check in, okay. So we will return to the general debate, which is the first to which Mr Stržínek is signed, Mrs Pošarová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u128	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I would like to share with you a particular experience of how construction proceedings in cities today work, such as Valašské Meziříčí, where I am mayor of the eighth year, or rather how this procedure does not work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u129	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I understand. I ask my colleagues to keep their voice down, if possible, so that Mr Stržínek can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u130	Thank you. About six months ago, on 16 September 2021, the representative of the town of Valašské Meziříčí approved or rather had to approve the payment of the regression procedure of CZK 184 000. Our government paid this money to the state, namely the Ministry of Transport, for delays in driving, which could not have affected at all. In addition, this procedure was about the road in the cadastral area...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u131	I will interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask my colleagues and Mr. Nacher to go outside the O.R. if possible. Thank you. Calm down, please. Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u132	Moreover, this procedure concerned the infrastructure in the cadastral territory of Solanec, which does not fall into our administrative district at all. How is that possible? It was 1986 when the Department of Construction and Urban Planning of the Municipal National Committee Rožnov pod Radhoštěm issued a zoning decision on the location of the building and then issued a building permit for construction of the infrastructure for JZD Solán. In 1987 this building was housed. In 1996, ten years later, the district authority, a regional development report, issued a message at the initiative of a local citizen who had been through the yard, stating that the decision of the Municipal National Committee Rožnov pod Radhoštěm was a so-called zero legal act, as the Department of Transport of the District National Committee Vsetín was responsible for the decision. Subsequently, proceedings were initiated for the removal of the construction. Following the abolition of the district authorities the Municipal Authority Rožnov pod Radhoštěm took over the proceedings and here begins the endless ping-pong with the regional authority, which cancels all prime decisions in the appeal proceedings and returns the file for renegotiation. The municipality of Hutisko-Solanec, which was to decide whether or not it was a publicly accessible dedicated communication, was equally affected. In 2011, because of the bias of the official of Rožnov, the file arrived at us in Valašský Meziříčí. And there's the same story again. Once again, the Regional Authority annulled all prime decisions in the appeal proceedings and returned the file to the new proceedings. It is hard to blame them, for if they confirm any decision, they will become the defendant themselves. But without a court-martial decision, this case will never be resolved. In the meantime, we already have two boxes of files that weigh more than 30 kilograms in total. Due to the bias of the officials of the building office Valašské Meziříčí, last year both boxes went to the regional office in Zlín, which will have to assign them to someone else. Nothing will be solved again because the whole process is simply wrong. Digitization of wrong-set processes will not improve anything, on the contrary. So the self-management that this option will then fall into will pay for the next regression. Ladies and gentlemen, the new construction law is the result of a long process and certainly cruel compromises. It is a chance for such cases to be brought to a successful end in real time. If the new coalition cancels or postpones it, we will have another year or maybe years of misstepping on the ground. Years when anything is built will get harder and harder. Who's gonna pay for this? Valmez, Roznov, regional authorities, Prague? Unfortunately, as always, all citizens of the Czech Republic will pay for this. And now shortly to the planned transfer of construction offices outside the city authorities, or if you want outside the municipal authorities with extended scope. For myself, I say as mayor, if there is such a model, I welcome it and I take it all ten. Why? The answer is simple. Our city has paid nearly 100 million crowns for the performance of the state administration over the past seven years, when I am mayor. By simple calculation, it can be determined that the supplement to the specific sub-transferred scope, i.e. the performance of the state administration in the area falling under the construction office, is more than 16 million. So if there is an entity, in this case, a state that will take the building authorities under its wing and fully pay for their operation, I will only be happy, because as a city we will save millions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u133	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Pošarová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u134	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad it finally got to me from this morning. So, honourable Members, I must begin with sad statistics. Since last year, the Czech Republic has been leading the pan-European rankings of the apartments. Their price jumped by more than a fifth last year and over the last five years, prices in our country have increased by incredible 76 percent according to Eurostat data. The main reason for this is the fact that we don't have to stop by because of red tape. To change it was a new construction law prepared and approved by the last government. He was supposed to pay from July 2023. But the new cabinet wants to postpone the standard by a year, retains some parts and reworks some. But some lawyers say that people or companies won't know where to go for building permits. In practice, the novel can cause a lot of confusion. The new law has been preparing for about five years and is changing the system of building authorisation from the ground up. Construction authorities should have moved from the municipalities to the state, a part of the smallest ones should have vanished. In addition, the Supreme Building Office was to be established with effect from 1. 1. 2022, formally paper-based, and then a special office for constructions such as motorways or railways. Authorisations are to be requested electronically and the authorities are to be given fixed time limits by which they have to decide. But the new government intends to leave the construction authorities to the municipalities and does not count on the Supreme Authority at all. Lawyers have said that the suspension of the construction law is confusing. What looks simple, we postpone by a year. In fact, none of the more than 50 other legislation, which has been substantially amended together with the new construction law, is regulated. The construction law is in fact two construction laws and then so-called change laws, but now MEPs vote only on the first and the second will continue to apply. In practice, there may be various paradoxical situations where builders will ask the court how to submit an application, for example in the case of a municipality for a water connection for a firehouse. Likewise, officials themselves may be uncertain about who they belong to. Ministers of the Government's Legislative Council also drew attention to possible confusion. From the Ministry of Regional Development, no one is able to explain the particular reason why builders should be brought into enormous uncertainty and chaos afterwards. I am not sure whether the Prime Minister is aware of the seriousness of the situation and whether he is willing to accept personal responsibility throughout the wide range. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u135	Thank you. The Minister applied with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u136	Thank you for your word. I think I'll make a brief comment on the procedure for the Legislative Council of the Government and so on. Yesterday, I was to be intersected by Mrs Peštová, as I had granted an exception to this material as President of the Legislative Council of the Government. Today, she said somewhat vaguely that I had, so to speak, made an exception to myself. It's not like that. It is precisely so that the Prime Minister cannot, so to speak, grant an exception to himself, that is why it is more appropriate for the Prime Minister to be a different member of the Government's Legislative Council than, for example, the Minister of Justice, precisely to maintain the opposition role there in principle. [[12.30 hours]] Since the Ministry of Regional Development has requested an exception from the commentary procedure and an exception from the regulatory impact assessment, of course, I handed the material over to my department and it was only because no new legal regulation is being created, but it only suspends something that is here, and since it is in a hurry to do so, they have advised me to comply and I have made use of my powers - that is, at the government level of course - and it seems normal to me. And that's why I want to distract a little bit of your concern that something fundamental is going to happen. I don't think anything special is gonna happen. As part of my opinion, I have stated that there is a problem with double-trackness, and this applies in general. Of course, any two - track adjustment can make some problems, but it doesn't necessarily mean that it will actually cause them, and it doesn't have to mean some fatal impact yet. I believe that these forecasts may also be unnecessarily black, because when I was sitting here in the past few weeks, I often heard such black scenarios here that when the state budget is not approved quickly and we will be long months in the budget commission, so that it will have some unfortunate consequences. Well, I haven't really noticed in the last three months that it would have had any unfortunate effects. It is important to realise that our legal order is not, in some way, particularly designed, even if we all want it, and, of course, the authorities applying the law with this ambiguity and with the fact that we have a lot of regulations have learned to work in some way. After all, even in this application skills we are still improving. So I believe that whether this bill is adopted or not, it will have no major negative consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u137	Thank you, Minister. With a factual point, President Schillerová is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I'm just going to respond because you said one sentence there that was easy for me - I was taking out correspondence there - that made me slightly elevated. And I understand that you are the Minister of Legislation, certainly an erudite lawyer, I am saying this with all due respect to you, but please, without trying to disrespect you in any way, I don't think you're working so deeply with the budgetary provisional, that's definitely a deal, that's not what I'd like to touch you with. And so I just jumped up to you right now because I didn't get ready: unfunded social services, the impossibility of drawing on the government's budget reserve, the impossibility of writing out any covido or other subsidy programs, the impossibility of drawing unused claims and hence limiting investment and so on, I would definitely remember another one. So the budgetary provisional, this unnecessary budgetary provisional really has made huge problems, and maybe we'll figure out how big it is for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u139	Next in the order of the factual remark, Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u140	I'll be brief. It just reminded me of the gig - you said nothing special happened, and it was some kind of gig. [[unintelligible]] You don't believe me? Trust me. In the end, we're gonna have to believe and hope you're right, because it looks like you're gonna push through. And I've got your quality interview here. I don't know if I can read it in two minutes, but, "I'd like to see laws adopted that are meaningful, interlinked, there will be no fundamental errors and contradictions with other regulations. I would like them to be accepted by consulting and discussing with the Government Legislative Council. The issue is that the legislative procedure, which is fundamentally set up in the Czech Republic, should not be passed." And then when they asked you what situation you would imagine an exception in, you write: "It is typically covidic legislation, but there are other very urgent situations that the government has to deal with quickly, such as the threat of energy poverty, inflation, and stabilization of state finances. " So in this area we have not received anything in Section 90 yet, on the contrary, we have received a construction law, and I would like to use perhaps that last piece of factual comment that I would ask about the accompanying law, because I know that the Minister is already working on something, or he has promised to present something to the government. And, you know, it should be discussed at the same time. It's just my inner deep feeling that I can't even get rid of your assurance that nothing bad is going to happen. Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u141	Thank you, and a factual comment is made by Minister Šalomoun. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u142	My response will be that, of course, if it is desirable to discuss something, including the Grand Legislative Council of the Government, when it is indeed a new legislation. This is just a suspension for the current one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u143	We will return to the general debate. It is now Mrs Pošarová's turn. No, I'm sorry, it's already been done. I'm sorry. Mr Kubík, Mr Štolpa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u144	Hello. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to our debate today, and I would also like to comment. How many times have we heard about our unflattering position in the Doing Business ranking, which is being prepared by the World Bank. The Czech Republic ranks 158th place from 190 monitored countries and this is a great shame for our republic. Only in the past period was a new building law enforced, which has a real chance to solve this problem. The law did not come from day to day, it was preceded by several years of preparation and discussion. Now you want to postpone it. Not the whole, luckily only part for exclusive constructions, such as highways. Of course, we need them as salt. We in South Bohemia could talk about this for hours. So I'm glad that at least the construction will accelerate here. But unfortunately, housing doesn't belong in this category. Have you noticed, colleagues, that we are in the middle of a housing crisis? And by this decision, we are relegating one of the instruments that can help to improve or at least mitigate it. If you look at real estate servers, it is possible to watch rents become more expensive a month from month to month and narrow their offer. And this has not yet been affected by the war crisis in Ukraine, which will have great pressure on rental housing. Inaccessibility of housing is a real problem. We can talk here about the rankings of the World Bank, but thousands of people really feel it for themselves. We need to build more apartments, we need to build rental housing, cooperative apartments. Unfortunately, there is no other way out of this crisis. Unfortunately, with this proposal that we are discussing today, we are delaying the solution to this problem again. While the new highways run according to the new construction law, housing will be governed by the old one who put us in this situation. Instead of one law, we'll have two. Do you find it easier, more transparent, as it is often repeated here? Not to me. The new building law also addresses, for example, the representativeness of officials. That this is not working is a fundamental problem, which I have dealt with many times as mayor of the village. The civil servant in charge of the construction process got sick and we could not move on for several months. It's not the official's fault, he was just sick. It's a system error that works here, and you want to extend it. There are more than 1,300 independent construction offices in the Czech Republic. Over 13,000 people are working on these separate construction offices, but these 13,000 people are irreplaceable among themselves. We have a lot of civil servants and construction experts, and the aim of this law was to work together, thereby developing our economy, helping people to live, to roads, schools, kindergartens. You're stopping this. Therefore, I cannot support the proposal that we are currently debating. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u145	Thank you. Next in turn, Mr Strýček is entered into a general debate. Sorry, Mr. Štolpa was signed up earlier. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u146	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate we are following up on the work of a respected and respected lawyer, a member of the legislative board of the Government of the Czech Republic, Dr Stanislav Kadlečka. [[right Hairdressers]] [[12.40 hours]] It was he who participated at the beginning of the concept of recodification of building law in the Czech Republic and who, after long discussions and negotiations, was a de facto architect of a separate model. It was based on its many years of experience in applying law and practice in small villages and large cities. He responded to his long-term cooperation with the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, Dr. Kadlečka passed away suddenly in August 2020, otherwise he would have called out loud today against the attempt to throw away the reform and actually left the current situation. He can't be here, but we're lucky that his thoughts, thesis and arguments do. In view of the importance of the steps you are now deciding to take - and I must say that I am convinced that this is the only step that you are actually going to take, or on which you will agree - that is, to push the effectiveness of the fundamental thesis of the reform of building law, let me draw your attention to an article that Dr. Kadlečka published and which he called quite significantly Why it is not possible to do otherwise in the organizational plane: "This part of the organizational reform, which leaves the delegation of the state building administration to local authorities, is being built from the outset by the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic and the Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic," says Dr. Kadlečka in his article and continues: "Without organizational reform, or the constitution of the state administration just as defined by the substantive intention of the construction law, however, these causes of the existing unsatisfactory to crisis cannot be eliminated, i.e. That means not even fulfilling the government's programming statement. This is specifically the case for the following reasons. Moreover, the proposal for a new construction law does not seek to eliminate the combined model of public administration itself. Its object is merely the exclusion of public building law agendas for which it is meaningful and effective to integrate them into the autonomous institutional system of clean government bodies, given the type of conflict in the territory, often present political interests of municipalities, as well as their complexity, frequency, expertise and procedural complexity. Moreover, contrary to the reduction of the construction offices proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, the solution contained in the approved substantive intention is more conducive to citizens, it does not delay the performance of state administration from citizens, and it is therefore comprehensively closer to what has always been followed by all the public administration reforms so far, that is to say, its approach to citizens. Moreover, such a procedure is certainly more gentle with the local authorities than the measures currently proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, such as the removal of municipal secretaries and the like. The exclusion of the building administration from the connected public administration model, i.e. the fact that the public building administration agenda will no longer be implemented by the territorial self-governing bodies in the delegated scope, is intended, in particular, to enable it to conduct the unified authorisation procedure and to issue unified building permits. At the same time, however, it is intended to bring about the elimination of problems of systemic bias and the intervention of self-government in the state administration. It is therefore necessary to separate the state building administration agenda from the political and interest effects of local authorities and their leaders. From the opposite point of view, this problem can be fully solved and only removed by a new system of direct state government separated from local authorities. Furthermore, eliminating the problems of inadequate horizontal and vertical coordination of the work of the construction offices and the associated risks of uniform and inadequate professional performance of the agenda. For example, the annual report on the state of the public administration in the Czech Republic for 2017 states that relatively high levels of successfully applied remedies have been revealed by analysis of data on the work of the construction authorities. This amounted to 43 percent for 2017. Furthermore, eliminating the problems of the costs of the administration transferred to self-government and from the opposite point of view, and the problem of the lack of address of financial contributions to the performance of the government, or ensuring the necessary uniform equipment of the construction offices, in particular hardware and software. Neither the proposal of the Slovak Construction Act provides for the performance of the delegated state administration by the authorities of the local government. Integration of the construction offices and the authorities concerned, i.e. the creation of a unified system of professional state building administration, which will not only take over the existing concepts of construction offices of all types, general and special, and levels - central, regional, local - but will also allow the removal of existing dozens of binding opinions through the integration of the authorities concerned into the state construction administration. In principle, it is not imaginable in an environment connected with the model of territorial public administration, since the state would then have to delegate to the municipalities basically all state administration concerning the development of the territory and construction, i.e. public administration, which now perform, for example, regional sanitation stations, CBU, ÚCL, Railway Authority, special and other construction offices. Moreover, at first sight, paradoxically, there would be a weakening of self-government, which is, at the same time, guaranteed by the constitutional law of the territorial communities. After all, an analysis of the state of affairs of the public administration - the government took note of it by its resolution 924 of 14. 12. 2011 - developed by the Ministry of the Interior already in 2011 stated that the fundamental problem of the concept of municipalities is the high scope of the delegation, which also exceeds the usual situation in countries associated with the model of public administration performance. This scope brings certain disadvantages, especially in terms of clarity of competence and responsibilities. In this sense, it would be necessary to consider the possible transfer of certain delegated competences to the separate competence of municipalities or, on the contrary, to the competence of the State authorities. The same material further states that the reduction of construction offices in any form can have a number of opponents, especially from the territorial authorities, arguing that the reduction of construction offices denies one of the main mottos of public administration reform closer to public administration to citizens. In this context, however, it should be noted that the State can support deconcentration and decentralization at all costs, as individual agendas need to be implemented at a level where their quality can be ensured. Indeed, the United Model of Public Administration has never included the whole spectrum of public agendas, see, for example, cadastral administration, land administration, financial administration, hygiene, fire protection, inspections defending the core public interests and so on. It cannot, therefore, undoubtedly constitute an automatic and universal mantra against any and any reasonable effort to reform the existing system. This is also true in the case of the exclusion of an agenda from a connected model. It is precisely the integration of the construction offices and the authorities concerned that it is necessary for one decision to authorise a building which arises from one authorisation procedure integrating, in particular, today's territorial management or its alternatives, an environmental impact assessment under the EIA law, an integrated prevention law procedure and further procedures for issuing binding opinions under the component laws and replacing today's building permit. It is precisely and only in the case of such integration that, in a material way, the construction can be assessed in one place from the point of view of various interests and the individual public interests protected by the approval of the construction will be balanced in the framework of the building management of an internal communication and cooperation body composed of several officials. This simply cannot be achieved without integration, see the current so much criticised fragmented state full of binding opinions. Only under the conditions of the new system of state construction administration will there be a significant shift in the independence of officials, but also other conditions for staff stability, career growth and proper performance of their activities, further improving the sharing of professional personnel capacities and resources. [[12.50 hours]] In contrast, the existing system also includes the inability to assist one another, for example, in order to cover the performance of the mutually assigned agenda in the occupation of individual workplaces, such as the idea of large-scale housing or industrial construction in the local jurisdiction of a small building office in the municipality of the first, second or third type or retirement, maternity leave or sick leave of several of its officials at once, and the sharing of expertise in the specialization and personnel capacity of the building office workers between municipalities, regions and its various employers to improve the possibility of methodological management of civil servants by official authorities, i.e. to ensure the individual and predicted application of public building law, while under the current concept the administration has no direct management powers over future officials of local authorities. Thus, it does not have a real possibility comparable to the possibility of acting on its own authorities, uniting the exercise of delegated powers. Furthermore, the elimination of part of the real, partly abused problem of the systemic bias of the entire construction offices within the local authorities to an uncalled for intersecting the performance of the state administration, which is to be effective and impartial, and otherwise completely legitimate political and interest effects of the local authorities are currently occurring as a result of the organisational division of the construction offices into municipal and regional authorities. In any event, the application of the objections of systemic bias and the handling of them themselves, on the one hand, disproportionately extends the administrative procedure and undermines the legal certainty of the parties to the administrative proceedings in the light of numerous legal actions affecting, among other things, the systemic bias. It is in this context that we recall with reference to the analysis of the state of the area planning section and the construction office in 2015 to 2017 processed MMR in the implementation of the Government's resolution of 19 October 2011, number 774, that neither the regional authorities nor the MMR have the possibility to effectively directly or indirectly influence the number of jobs intended for the implementation of the land planning activity in order to match the amount of funds provided for the transferred performance of the state administration in this section. Among other things, most regional authorities see the cause of the problem of the undersized state of officials at some ORP offices in an opaque way of financing individual agendas of the delegated performance of the state administration. It is not possible to check the effectiveness of the use of financial contributions to the transferred performance of the state administration, let alone whether it is used in full for the needs of all municipalities in the administrative district of the ORP. In addition, regional authorities point to an increase in claims, so-called systemic biases, but at the same time to link construction offices with purely self-governing agendas - property management, investments and so on. In such cases, there should certainly be a direct conflict of competence following the performance of the tasks assigned. Thanks to the abandonment of the territorial government model in this area, the principle of liability for the damage caused by illegal decisions or by the maladministration of the building office, which is now completely dispersed between the MMR and the local authorities, the regions, the municipalities and the authorities concerned and their administrative authorities. Modern state building administration will certainly not be able to do without consistent digitization, but the necessary uniform hardware and software equipment of construction offices is not imaginable under the conditions of construction offices forming part of hundreds of different offices necessarily autonomous municipalities or regions. On the contrary, it is now pointed out that, in particular, the first-instance building offices have insufficient programming and technical equipment and even problematic internet connection, with the type of different construction offices located in offices of more than 700 different local authorities and several different state authorities in the population of different ministries actually not allowing the acquisition of uniform equipment, especially in the area of information systems, as well as uniform management and uniform external practice. Without such equipment and connection, it is not possible to digitalise the authorisation of buildings and land-use planning, which will mean more efficient, more open, transparent and practically at any time possible access to all relevant documents in the electronic administrative file, including the introduction of the possibility, respectively for certain entities of the obligation, to make electronic submissions via interactive forms into the information system. It is through the information system that owners of the transport technical infrastructure and the authorities concerned who are not integrated into the new system of state building administration will also be able to express themselves. The appeal procedure against the building permit decision will always be required by the Board of Appeal to decide and, where appropriate, to amend or confirm the decision of the building authority of the first instance, to reject the application or to suspend the first step decision and not to cancel the decision of the building office of the first instance and to refer the matter back to it for further proceedings, as is the case under the current legislation. However, this can only work under the conditions of the hierarchic state building administration, otherwise there would be an overload of the second-instance building office and, on the contrary, total irresponsibleness, lightness of the pen of the first-instance building office. After all, it is difficult to legitimately demand that the second-instance building office must always correct the errors of the first-instance building office without being able to intervene in its proceedings. The same is true, however, given that if the first-instance building office does not decide within the statutory period, or within the extended period, the information system automatically generates a decision on the permit of the building. Nor is such an anti-inactivity measure imaginable in a situation where only a very free relationship between the first and second-instance construction agencies is open to the authorities of the local authorities. Recodification is finally also aimed at process, but also in particular the actual tightening of the pages of the removal of unauthorized buildings. However, under the current system of administration performance, there is a real problem as well as a simple lack of funds to implement the decision on the regulation of removal of buildings. Although the costs of the removal of buildings are borne by the one ordered to remove the building, among other things, the owner of the building, the Ombudsman criticizes in the long term that there is no execution of the decisions of the construction offices concerning the demolition of the so-called black buildings. The Ombudsman noted cases in which the building office imposed a fine on the builder for failing to comply with the final decision and removing the building, but did not proceed to his own right of execution. It is undoubtedly the duty of the building authorities not only to issue decisions in compliance with the legal conditions, but also to execute them. As has already been stated, the failure to comply with the decision often stems from the need to bear the considerable costs of compensation for enforcement. However, the construction authorities are logically under considerable pressure from the self-governing authorities, which in no way surprisingly refuse to provide funds for execution. The analysis from 2015 to 2017 confirms this. The regional authorities continue to see a major problem with the reimbursement of the costs of ensuring the enforcement of decisions issued by the construction authorities in the public interest. A similar problem appears to be the lack of funds for the execution of the decision on the removal of buildings under Section 129 of the Construction Act, i.e. black buildings, although under Section 131 of the Construction Act the costs of the removal of the construction are borne by the one who was ordered to remove the construction, that is to say the owner of the construction. Law, not even construction, but without state coercion, doesn't work. State coercion, and the fact that it will actually happen, is an essential aspect of it for law to be rightfully motivated by its addressees to be respected." So much for Dr. Kadlečka. What you have heard here now is not a policy, these are the factual arguments of an expert, moreover called upon to know everything you have so far presented under the cover of the necessary changes, let me state this essential: You have not dealt with the arguments contained here in any way. You're just trying to keep quiet, relativize, downplay. [[13.00 hours]] However, your irresponsible actions will not affect people, whether they want to build themselves or who wants to buy an apartment, those who will not be able to buy it, because you will completely block the process with this proposal and the lack of flats in the Czech Republic will further deteriorate, to those who believe in the future of the Czech Republic. But interesting and tempting investors, who could be the great future of our republic and bring new jobs with high added value to it, would also support education and move us forward, would prefer to go further on, to Warsaw or Bratislava, which are more helpful to them. It will affect people who believe in stable supplies, which will run into the development of logistics and other areas. Perhaps today we feel that it will not fall into the area of road construction, motorways, or rail infrastructure, because with it we retain the model you deny to the common man. Why, then, do you want construction to be approved here in two ways? It is evident in the words of the classic "what is allowed for gods is not allowed for oxen." Mr Kupka, as Minister of Transport, retains a changed working model, but the common man will deny it. However, I fear that this bastard and confusion will not be at the end of the day, neither here nor people will be able to reach a faster connection. Your decision about the fate of building law in the Czech Republic is not factual but political. This should be quite clear here. And responsibility for this political decision will be taken on its shoulders by every Member who has spoken for delaying the effectiveness of modern building legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Bartoš is attached to the factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u148	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna let all those other opinions come out. I also sometimes take the text, especially when I have the opening word, and I read the things out of it so that I don't forget what's supposed to sound. It is a bit unfortunate when, after a few hours of negotiations in the reading text, the arguments which I, Mr Kupka or other speakers have already settled and answered in response to Mr Vondráček or the Chair of the Committee have long been raised. Maybe it'd be worth it to at least cross the text out so we're not blamed for not reflecting anything when we're answering that question here. And then just please, since you're quoting the late doctor, look at his name. We worked with him. He's not Mr. Kadlečka. But more importantly, my argument is going to be, since we're spending the time here and you've got the speech ready, at least cross out the things that have been settled here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u149	We are going back to the general debate. Now it's time for Mr. Member Strýček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u150	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, we have a House press here today, which the government essentially intends to postpone at least part of the effectiveness of the new construction law. The new building law is referred to from one side as the ideal form of building law, from the other side as some sort of paskvil. I always take the view that it is somewhere in the middle, which means that I believe that today it is the maximum possible that has been achieved in the political constellation of past years. It is, of course, not ideal for reform. I know that in most cases, we don't have the perfect bills here, that it's being repaired here at the House. How many times have we corrected the law here, which has already been put into legislative practice. Again, it is not ideal reform, of course, but it is a necessary reform, which I believe must not be postponed, but it is necessary to start implementing, establishing the supposed authorities, fulfilling and bringing them into life. What in a terrible quotation mark brings us the new construction law, so now it is necessary to postpone it quickly? In the last parliamentary term, I was not one of those members of the guarantee committees who dealt fully with this construction law. I have actually become familiar with the very extensive material in some way, because questions have been asked about me as Members within the region, the citizens have asked me and so on. I would, of course, in some way - because it is not easy, it is a really extensive material that has been worked on for a long time, it is a lot of pages - today it has allowed me to load or highlight about five points that have attracted me, even though they have already been said here, and, as the Minister says, even if they have already been explained here in some way. Firstly, it is a unified system of construction offices and their separation from the authorities. This law introduces a unified system of state-owned construction offices headed by the Supreme Building Office. I think this is a systemic change that addresses the fundamental problem of systemic bias, which has already been discussed here, which means the risks of interfering with local authorities' decision-making on building authorisation. The creation of this single system of state authorities can prevent these cases. Of course, the benefit can also be a uniform and predictable interpretation of construction regulations. However, the condition for this is, of course, to ensure the transition of a sufficient number of high-quality officials and the organizational provision of this system. I think that all of us here, who built something or had negotiations at the construction offices, have certainly met with this because not all the officials who work at the construction offices are of the same quality and so on. And it happened to me personally, too, that something I started doing was explained to me, and then I learned from the clerk that it was different. So I think it's a really necessary thing. Furthermore, it is a simplification and acceleration of the construction process. I call it official ping-pong. I also consider this to be the main reason for the adoption of the new construction law, because there is considerable complexity and fragmentation of current legislation and its consequence is a disproportionate length of proceedings on the approval of constructions. This approved law introduces one joint procedure for the permit of construction instead of the current territorial and construction proceedings and a number of other so-called special procedures. This is, of course, related to the integration of some so far separate permits and opinions on the decision of the building permit. The decision of the building office will therefore be made in cooperation with more authorised officials. Separate here, as has already been said, for example, the opinions of the Nature Conservation Agency for projects in specially protected areas, the decisions of the authorities of the State Monument Care in the Protection Zone, cultural monuments, conservation zones, the opinions of the Fire Rescue Corps, the expression of the Mining Authorities and the Veterinary Administration and so on. What I also consider to be very important and very positive is that the Board of Appeal will not be entitled to cancel and return the decision issued at the first instance, but will always have to make a final decision. This will prevent renegotiation of the matter, that is the so-called official ping-pong, which I'm sure all of us had the opportunity to meet. Changes in the zoning plan and changes in the requirements for construction. That's another point I kind of pierced. The issue is that the territorial planning documentation at all levels, i.e. the territorial development plan for the territory of the whole state, the principles of territorial development of the region, urban plans of municipalities and regulatory plans, will be developed in a unified process. The time limits for its acquisition, albeit non-binding, shall also be introduced. The possibility of making changes to the land-use planning documentation and regulatory plans at the initiative of authorised persons and authorities is further modified. The territorial planning documentation will therefore be required to be prepared in an electronic version in a machine-readable format and its selected parts in the so-called uniform standard, in the same formal way in all cases. The law also newly contains the definition of the so-called blue-green infrastructure and its general support in spatial planning as an instrument for efficient water management in cities. [[13.10 hours]] Another of those points that I wanted to mark here in some way are planning contracts that will treat the relations between municipalities and investors. I also consider this to be very important, because the law contains a detailed regulation of planning contracts, which gives municipalities and investors greater certainty about what their mutual commitments in the area of future use of the territory, especially in the construction of public infrastructure can be. The municipality may set the conclusion of such a contract as a condition for the implementation of a certain construction project in the zoning plan. In a contract concluded on the basis of a voluntary agreement of the Parties, the municipality may undertake, inter alia, to take steps to change the zoning plan or, on the contrary, not to change it for a certain period of time. This commitment only affects the party or parties to the contract, it does not constitute a legal obstacle to the exercise of the authority of the municipal authorities. Thus, investors' obligations may also relate, for example, to participation in the construction of public infrastructure or other buildings caused by their intention to take over the costs of such construction or the provision of cash or material supplies for the evaluation of the land by issuing land planning documentation. And the next point is that point, which, of course, is very much discussed here, and that is the issue of removal and additional approval of constructions. This law tightens the conditions for additional approval of buildings, so-called black buildings, built without permission or contrary to its conditions. Such a construction will be possible in addition to fulfilling all other legal conditions additionally only on condition that the builder acted in good faith, i.e. that he did not knowingly break the law. The Act also expressly states that if no request for additional permission for the construction is made within the specified period, the construction cannot be additionally authorised. So I, from personal experience, would go a little further within this law, because - I don't know if this has been heard yet, but some official statement that I read in some technical publication was that perhaps every tenth building is a black building with us. From personal experience, I know that there are builders who start building not only without the permission of the competent authorities, i.e. the building office, the Ministry of the Environment, of course, which makes decisions about the disruption of the landscape and so on, but even in violation of the zoning plan, yes, who will simply build it hard where there is a meadow, and then negotiate it all, monitor it and deal with it afterwards. So I'm here personally in support of the fact that if such an act occurs, I'm really going to remove the black building immediately. Milder conditions here even to the black buildings for the removal and additional approval of buildings - lower conditions here will apply under this law if the construction was legally authorised, but the permit was subsequently revoked. In these circumstances, the construction office will authorise the construction by a new decision if, in repeated proceedings, it proves that all legal conditions are met. I think that, given the previous legislation, I consider the implementation of the new construction law to be a better solution, and it is really a better solution than putting aside this necessary reform of building law for a number of years to come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we continue our discussion, I'll read the apology received. From the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today, between 13 and midnight, for family reasons, Mrs Němečková Crkvenjaš apologizes, between 12.45 and 13.45 for work reasons, Mr Roman Bělor apologizes today, between half-second and 16am, for work reasons, Minister Gazdík apologises, as well as from 12 o'clock to the end of the meeting of today's meeting, Minister Rakušan apologises, as well as from 9 to 12 o'clock for working reasons, for Mr Koten. Those were the apologies and now, please, to Mrs Peštová, who is duly enrolled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u152	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Dear Government, I would freely follow up on what I started with yesterday during the intercessions and what I have identified from the point of view of the construction law and its effectiveness. One of the problems is that on the day 1. 8. 2021 Act No. 284/2021 Coll. of 13 July 2021 amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Construction Act. The validity came into force 29. 7. 2021, the efficiency is specifically distributed partly as at 1. 8. 2021, partly as at 1. 1. 2022 and partly 1. 7. 2023. It is a so-called amending or accompanying law, which was accompanied by a new building law in the legislative process. The accompanying law is therefore valid and a large part of its provisions are effective. He's changing 58 other laws. In addition to the fact that you intend to divide the construction law itself from the point of view of efficiency in two, when you postpone the modification for general buildings and allow the modification of the reserved buildings to take effect, you are making another problem with the amendment law. Opinion of the President of the Government Legislative Council of 31. 1. 2022 specifically states that - I quote - "the proposed specific design of the divided efficiency, respectively the applicability of Law No. 283/2021 Coll., the Construction Act, contained in the proposed provision of Section 334a, may lead to practical problems, since the assessment of which parts of the Act will be applicable and in relation to which types of buildings, especially in the case of sets of buildings, related buildings and in what time period, will probably be quite difficult. The proposed substantive solution is possible and is a question of the government's political decision on the solution to the initiation of the amendment of the new construction law, but it is pointed out from a legislative point of view that more practical and more understandable for the addressees of the legislation, and it would be easier to postpone the effectiveness of the new amendment of the construction law as a whole, including Act No. 284/2021 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law and which the proposed amendment does not concern at all, and subsequently in the meantime resolve the form of a new modification of the construction law comprehensively. The proposal envisages a partial postponement of the effectiveness of the construction law, but does not contain the current postponement of the effectiveness of the so-called accompanying law, that is to say Act No. 284/2021 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Construction Act. In the case of the chosen material solution and given the complexity of the so-called accompanying law, it would not be possible to only partially postpone its effectiveness. It would therefore be necessary to amend the proposed § 334a and § 334a. 3 sentences first to understand that it would apply to related laws after 1 July 2023, because the opposite interpretation would lead to unsolvable application problems after that date." End of quote. [[13.20 hours]] In addition, this opinion has been replaced by a proper legislative process. As I have already said, the previous government has been attacked for having been adopted by the government with only some opinion and failed to undergo a proper legislative process, and has been attacked by the emergence of so-called pasquillas. In its essence, this is the equivalent. The President of the Government's Legislative Council has granted an exception to himself and this House press has not been discussed in committees or at the plenary of the Government's Legislative Council, although it has been declared by the Government and personally by Mr Šalomoun publicly and in the media that all procedures will be properly followed. As of day 1. 1. 2022 The law established a whole new system of state building administration. According to the previous provisions on the new construction law, § 312 to § 315 is to be applied gradually and not. The explanatory memorandum even states that you aim to abolish or partially delay the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, and especially the regional construction offices. But your duty is to comply with the law and comply with the law. You should have done: first, establish the Supreme Building Office, second, select the President of the Supreme Building Office. The chairman was to submit a systemization to the Ministry of the Interior and you were to claim a budget. None of this has gone on or on, but instead you come up with a retroactive proposal. How will you defend retroactivity? That it's common practice? That it only concerns transitional provisions to the law? That it's retroactivity, but in favour of the recipients of the standard? That this is an unusual legislative technique, but that there is, in principle, no decision of the Constitutional Court yet, so nothing is happening? I wonder what happens to officials who 1. 7. 2023 are to be transferred to the regional construction office. Where will they go? What will happen to them? Who's going to finance them? Who are they gonna fall under? And since that is a lot of questions I would like to know the answers to, I would like to propose a procedural motion for a break until the time of the arrival of the Minister of Legislation, Šalomoun. [[When he says the name, he sounds a gong, so he is not clear, for he calls Solomon or Solomon.]] And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u153	Thank you. I'm the one who got the gig so the MPs could come to the ballroom. I will repeat the proposal put forward by Mrs Peštová, namely to suspend the discussion of the item until the Minister of Legislation arrives. President Excellent is reporting, perhaps with an alternative proposal for a procedural proposal, because we would vote on the procedural proposal without debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u154	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I would like to make an alternative proposal for this proposal, which Mrs Peštová has made here. So I even think that the Minister has spent the entire meeting here, and it is logical that at the time when it is 13.23, and we are acting continuously, he also needs to be refreshed, so maybe he will be granted to you even during the time that Members working here in the premises of the Chamber of Deputies - so that someone does not come back here to lecture us about the fact that they are only working on the benches in the hall - so that they may appear here. But if this were not the case, I would ask that an alternative proposal be put to the vote for this procedural proposal by Mrs Peštová, and that is to interrupt the discussion of this point by 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u155	Madame Pekarová Adamová is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u156	I even think that this proposal is not voteable because we have no Minister Šalamoun, but Šalomoun. And that, I think, is also quite important here to tell him not to smack his name, that it's certainly disrespectful to him, so that we can correct the presentation. I think I really understood that there was a different name here than what the minister's real name was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u157	I think she wants to clarify her proposal, Mrs Peštová. Let me just remind you that Minister Šalomoun is duly excused from the hearing. Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u158	I would like to respond here to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. If she listened to me properly, she'd know I said Šalomoun. It's also in my materials. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid you're making mistakes, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u159	Okay. So I think we have some idea what kind of minister we want to talk about. With another alternative proposal, Madam President, because we should vote on the procedure. [[Conjecture before the speaker's counter on the voting capacity of both proposals.]] Do you feel he's unvoting? Then you can vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u160	May I, Mr Vice-President? It's a point. If we are here as pinktlich as they say in our country in Brno, and I think that Mrs Peštová said it correctly, I think that was not a voteable proposal by President Výborný because he said he was coming up with an alternative proposal, but he did not say with a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u161	Mr. Chairman Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u162	My mom told me at home to leave the soul alone. No, quite seriously. I know the President. So I'm editing the wording. I am putting forward a counter-proposal on Mrs Peštová's procedural proposal, as I said here about 90 seconds ago. Is that okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u163	Thank you. So at this point, I'm registering two proposals. One counterproposal by President Výborný to suspend our negotiations until 13.30, or we would vote on Mrs Peštová's proposal to the presence of the Minister for Legislation. I'm picking up the check-out request, so I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has stabilized. I will therefore repeat that we are voting first on the Mr Excellent's counter-proposal to suspend the negotiations until 13.30. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 149 Members voted in favour of 10, against 39. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the original proposal by Mrs Peštová, who proposes to interrupt the item until the arrival of the Minister for Legislation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 80, 150 Members voted in favour of 67, against 83. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore continue with the general debate to which Mr Marek Novák is entered in the order. [[Big noise in the hall. Many Members pack and walk out of the hall.]] Ambassador, please. [[Member Novak: Thank you for the floor.]] I would ask you, fellow Members, to quiet down so that we can continue the general debate. Hang in there, Mr. Ambassador. We must wait a moment for the Members to calm down. Let's give space to those who want to leave. Well, thank you so much for calming me down. Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u164	Thank you for the floor and for the comfort of the hall, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to say much, but there have already been enough fundamental things here today, on the basis of which we should fundamentally oppose the release of this press by the next reading. However, I also consider it necessary to introduce you to the letter from the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Vladimír Dlouhý, addressed to both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development, and so, of course, through the chairmen of the Members' Clubs to all Members, so I assume that you have all read it very closely, but I will be happy to repeat it here, because you have surely forgotten it. Mr Dlouhý writes for a very short time: "Dear Prime Minister, Minister, honourable Members of the Clubs of Parliament, I consider it necessary to draw attention to the serious flaw in the Houses of Press 63 and 137, which proposes partial postponement of the effectiveness of Act No. 283/2021 Coll. Neither of the prints contains a proposal for an adequate amendment to the accompanying act No. 284/2021 Coll. The Minister for Legislation also points to this serious deficiency by stating that there will be unsolvable application problems, such as the decision to exempt from the agricultural soil fund would thus go beyond the competence of the non-existent office, and therefore not only the relevant agenda and officials would remain in the legislative vacuum, i.e. without pay and employer, but above all no application for permission could be made, i.e. not even reserved buildings. The result would be an absolute halt to the approval of buildings.' And that's what we're dealing with here today. "The proposed form of printing is 63 and 137 as well as the stability of the legal framework of territorial planning. The approval of the press as presented would cause undesirable chaos in the legal order. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic, with reference to the principle of legal certainty as one of the fundamental pillars of the democratic system, which follows directly from the Constitution of the Czech Republic, asks for the preparation of the press into an acceptable form, which will be constitutionally conformal and capable of maintaining good legal order. According to legitimate expectations, it must ensure long-term stable, uniform, relatively simple and predictable rules and standards for entrepreneurs, citizens and public authorities. Unfortunately, this, to the detriment of all natural and legal persons, is not what the 63 and 137 press do in their current form. As regards the search for compromise rational paths in the long-term stable regulation of public building law, which should contribute to the very fact that the legislation already in force has been well-treated, I would like to recall an important initiative as one of the signatories. By letter dated 6 December 2021, representatives of the strongest business chambers and associations requested the presidents of the coalition parties to accept and discuss the revised intention. Unfortunately, this request has not been answered to this day. I therefore ask again for a technical and factual discussion on the subject. Respectfully, President of the Chamber of Commerce Vladimír Dlouhý." Based on what Vladimír Dlouhý is actually telling us, I find that there is no interest in professional discussion at all, that the coalition does not even want to listen to those concerned, that it does not even have any interest in professional discussion. Therefore, I propose that we interrupt negotiations with this press until the meeting of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Regional Development is realized, together with the President of the Chamber of Commerce, so that they can agree on further action and agree on a real solution that will really help not only entrepreneurs but also citizens, but also assure the officials who are working at the construction offices today to be sure of their job. I propose this interruption by 30. 9. 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u165	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Right in my introduction, there was a procedural proposal. If I have listened well, it is a procedural proposal to interrupt until the meeting of the Prime Minister and the President of the Chamber of Commerce and the Minister for Regional Development has taken place. Thank you. Anyone reporting for counter-proposal? I do, but I see that President Cogan is reporting at the moment. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u166	I want to make an amendment, but I am not quite sure how it was formulated. So I'm gonna ask my colleague again if he'd say exactly those people, based on...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u167	Mr. Chairman, I'm just gonna interrupt you. You, if necessary, should say counterproposal at this point. And the procedural proposal - let Mr Novák check me, as I have registered at this point - wants to suspend the negotiations until the meeting of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Regional Development and the President of the Chamber of Commerce is held, by 30. 9. 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u168	I see. I consider this proposal pointless, but we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u169	Okay. So I'm gonna reengage, so you didn't say any counterproposals. At this point, I've registered a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm gonna have to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm gonna ask you to sign in with your voting cards. We all know what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the procedural proposal put forward by Mr Novák, and this is an interruption of negotiations until the meeting of the Prime Minister, the President of the Chamber of Commerce and the Minister for Regional Development, is held by 30. 9. 2022. I am now opening the vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? Thank you. I note that there were 150 Members registered in the 81 vote, for it was 68, against it was 80, 2 abstained. The procedural proposal has not been approved. At this moment, the President of the ODS member's ODS, Mr Marek Benda, is reporting with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u170	Madam Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, I am only - when the opposition is already training us here - one proposal for a government coalition: for all five clubs of the government coalition, we propose that we continue the negotiations today after 19th and after 21st and after 24th hours until this point is discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u171	So, at this point, we have another procedural proposal made by the President of the ODS Chamber of Deputies to take place today after 7 p.m., 21 p.m., practically after midnight until this law is discussed. At this point, I will vote on this procedural proposal. We all know what we're going to vote on. I am now opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. I note that during the vote number 82 151 Members were enrolled, for it was 79, against it was 64. She's been held up at 8. The motion was accepted. We are now once again entering a general debate. I see, with a factual remark - even now, Minister, would you prefer to sign up with priority rights? A factual point should be made in the context of a general debate. You can use both options, but I'd prefer it to be right, with priority rights. Would that be possible? Thank you. So I'm gonna ask the minister to step forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u172	Thank you. I can fit in those two minutes. It is a factual point, because every time a procedural vote comes, it is preceded by some rather long interpretation by a fellow Member from the benches, who is actually going to the procedural vote. So to Mrs Peštová, through Madam President. Minister Šalomoun here spoke and answered the exact questions that you also had in the interpelation yesterday, on the one hand, how and why an exception was granted, because this is really only a delay in part of the law, and you quoted here the part of it, which I have, of course, also written here, the opinion, where, in the end - this is the last paragraph - he writes about avoiding interpretation problems, the Ministry for Local Development has already declared - it is in the material Information on the further process of amending the building law, submitting to the government for information on 19 January 2022 - so the implementing law will be amended. And on that second point, and I don't actually draw the two minutes, but I will try to enter, so, of course, in the previous parliamentary term, as representatives of the opposition, with Minister Dostálová at that time and with the Chamber of Commerce, we participated in countless individual debates and gremia, where we talked about why we did not agree with the institutional change and what our proposal for a change is to say process integration and digitization, so it was no news. Similarly, this procedure was declared in the formation of a government coalition. In the field of tripartite and in relation to the Economic Chamber, we have also met many times in those three months since we were in the government, so it is not true that the debate is not going on, on the round table at the Ministry of Regional Development were representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, but if the position of the Chamber of Commerce and selected entities is held: we want the Supreme Building Office and have fourteen regional offices and our political positions, the government position is: we do not want this change, I do not see the full power to find compromise in these two distinct views on the functioning of the state administration and the delegation. So the second introduction to the procedural proposal, until the Minister for Regional Development, Prime Minister and Head of the Chamber of Commerce meet, seems a little obstructive to me, because we have met many times on this subject, and our positions are clarified and known. Yes, at this point, they are contradictory, which, of course, in politics, when you're looking for consensus, you end up in a way that you just don't agree on something. I am very happy to meet anyone who wants to talk about this, although our time is limited in a certain way, perhaps our engagement in the European Parliament. Indeed, the Prime Minister is not here today, although he has been called up because he is acting in the interests of the Czech Republic, but I do not think that two last procedural votes would bring anything new into the matter that has already been discussed today, even if we took another month to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u173	Thank you, too. Your speech, Minister, raised two factual points. At this point, Mrs. Berenika Peštová is registered with a factual remark, so I'm going to ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u174	Thank you. I am glad, Minister, that you have taken the helm for Minister Šalomoun. [[Minister Bartoš notes something.]] But he didn't. That's what I had, the questions. So if you really want to react and react for it, then I would like to know how you will deal with the fact that the proposal is retroactive, how you will defend retroactivity, what will be common practice. Do you want to hide behind the transitional provisions of the law, or that it is retroactivity, but in favour of the addressees of the standard, that it is an unusual legislative technique, but that, in principle, by the absence of any judicate and decision of the Constitutional Court, we will continue to hide, what will happen to those employees, where they will go, who will pay them? So if you really want to take this role, I'll be glad if you answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u175	Thank you for keeping time. With another point of fact, Mr Jan Volný is registered. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministers, ministers, I just want to respond here to the Minister, who has explained in color how much the Chamber of Commerce discussed in building our construction law, so the Chamber must have known what it was about. He also remembered some sessions that were directly at the Ministry of Regional Development, saying a round table where he attended. Then I am really sorry that in the new time you signaled here, you forget what we did and our people, even if it is the Chair of the House Committee, do not invite you to these meetings. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I do not see another factual point, so we are going back to the general debate. Before we go over to her, I'd like to read one apology. Mr Roman Bělor apologizes from today between 13.45 and 14.15 for reasons of work. Next, Mr Martin Kolovratník is enrolled in the general debate. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u178	Hello, good afternoon, colleagues. It is sometimes good to wait and see in the proper debate what is being said here from the various sides of the debate, and then to have some kind of tidy response, and, as the Minister suggested, to cross out what has been said and not to repeat it again. On the other hand, we respect that each of the Members who deal with this issue wants and needs to say something in quotation marks. After all, it was the same in the last parliamentary term last year, when I was here in the role of rapporteur for this law, and I will talk about it in a little while. We also tried to reach out to you in the opposition's role at the time. Only the third reading was interrupted several times, lasted much of spring. I remember that between first and second reading, we agreed between the two camps, coalition and opposition, to make the deadline between two readings 100 days and so on and so forth. I'm calling for peace of mind, because we're going without lunch break, that I'm not gonna catch my coalition colleagues, I'm not gonna make any procedural proposals here. Now I don't know if half the O.R.'s gonna clear out after I said it. But I said it, and the word of a man pays, so it's definitely not my goal to try this step any minute. And I will try to make a comprehensive, but factual, correct argument. [[13.50 hours]] I would have framed my performance in such an appeal: Really, don't do it! Please, colleagues, please, Minister Bartoš, through Madam President, do not do this and let us try to find another way. Those reasons, concerns about you proposed, and today at first reading of the proposed trip are really great. It was not here, as I followed the debate, quoted completely in detail from the report, from the comment of Minister Šalomoun, it was merely suggested that he had somehow softened it, implied it. I understand that politically when he gives an opinion to his fellow political fellow, and in the coalition that he doesn't want to be so sharp, he doesn't want to be so critical, but please, and especially you, who are lawyers or at least a little close to that legal education - look at the Minister's position, he really says that he would suggest some changes or rather another way of doing it, and specifically he was going to do it, if you want to change it, and we've already said that a thousand times - we don't like it, you want it so much, you have the votes for it - so cancel the building bill, the standard as a whole. Cancel the whole thing, including the amendment law, and you'll redo the whole thing. Don't just make the partial change. And here, Minister Bartoš, I would like to ask you, please answer, why didn't you reflect on this, why did you decide to go through with this partial change? Plus, I'm going to point out, third time, it's the third time I've tried. There's an unfinished press here in the House, and I have to say, frankly, it's very poor quality, designed by the Pardubice Council. It was last September. We, in the role of the opposition, tried to explain that colleagues should not do this. They also proposed it without any rational debate, prepared it, here in the House it landed here sometime in mid-December and had a negative opinion from the previous government. And when you compare those two positions, the arguments of the then, previous government and today Minister Šalomoun were very identical were very similar. Such an invented partial change in delay, a shift in time of only a certain part of the law is based on a great risk. At the beginning of my performance, I took my article, which I published at the end of November last year, and when I read it this morning, I found out that it is still valid. It hasn't changed much about him. I gave it to that international ranking Doing Business, by comparing how long this building permit is. And I will be correct - I said it myself a while ago, I will not read the numbers again, I will not repeat what has already been said several times. We simply decided to change that last year in the complex novel that I was carrying. And we confessed, saying, Yes, this is not evolution, this is a revolution, and it is great, but let us take courage to it. And I could now borrow the expression of a number of colleagues who have spoken here today, including Ivan Adamec, especially colleagues from the ODS. With them, I feel that we are in great agreement and that a lot of things really don't work, that we really don't want it like that. That is why it is surprising for me, when colleagues from the ODS still, constantly, persistently defending the steps of Minister Bartoš for the pirát, who simply does not have it prepared well. You all know, either from our interpersonal relations, private or also from work, that the broader sensible consensus can also be taken up by good friends, and it is logical that all the negotiations, working, legislative, which we, as authors of the comprehensive text, were all the more complex. They were players in the area planning and building authorisation section. They logically had different opinions, other interests than those who then give the requirements for construction. And what we really want to do now is to dismantle, whatever we call it, this has been preceded by a long series of years of negotiations with representatives of self-government, developers, public interests defenders, various professional and interest organisations, and I just see it as a good compromise, what we voted for here, the hundreds of amendments. It is true that if we sit here with the Minister outside the microphones and make some kind of checklist of the contents of the building bill, that I don't know, 80 percent, maybe 85 we can agree - the questions of digitization, the acceleration of the management, the simplification and so on. Really, the only consensus, the only consensus is in the only sentence, who will be the one issuing the warrant, where the clerk will sit, where he will be organized. And I'm actually answering myself, why are we giving it so much energy? The previous House, despite the Senate's veto, finally approved 106 votes, is not enough. The current coalition has 108. The law is done, and again, Minister, I must repeat: it is effective from 1 January and the duty of you, your office, to fulfill it, and not delay it, or do not act and say: Well, we may change it somehow. I would probably understand these steps too if I didn't like them happening last December. But frankly, colleagues, you were actually caught up with your marketing election vows. You've been saying the whole election campaign, we don't like it, we don't want it, we change it, we're competent, we're a competent government to make those changes. But it was December, well, to be fair, you took government responsibility just before Christmas, but January came and the changes didn't come. Now it's the end of March and it's just too late. The problem we have addressed or addressed in the current construction law is indeed structural. It's a faulty, dysfunctional setup - and I'm still going to say - today's end of Building Act 183 of 2006. He's surviving, he's too complicated. Ivan Adamec spoke similarly. He was adopted on 14 March 2006, he too had the legislative process very long and very complex. He was adopted under the rule of the social democratic government of Jiří Paroubek, Minister for Regional Development was then Radko Martínek, and he received many, many amendments. I, too, have said this in a number of public debates last year, and I will admit it and I will say it, and I will admit it today, that the change that we have finally worked here is certainly not ideal, it is not great, there is something to improve on, and that I will also support my argument and I will again specifically give it to you as an alternative proposal, as a counterproposal to what we could agree on here in the House and perhaps even in the accelerated reading in the so-called 90th. I, in contrast with the two approaches that we cannot agree on, will not accentuate the systemic bias that often arouses emotions here, whether it is really happening or not. I'll accentate two other things. First, the issue of black buildings. And look at that, we really have a huge amount of black buildings in the Republic. When people from the mobile home business come to me by illustration, those short-term holiday houses where many authorities won't allow them at all, they're black buildings, but insurance companies will insure them because they just want to make money. You may have seen the stories about the fires - then there are disputes with landowners who will actually pay for the damage. No one knows what to do with it or how to work with it. So what's it given? By my second argument, just by the disunity of procedure, disunity method, unrepresentability authorities, and that this Czech proverb, which here pays a thousand percent: Each village, another dog, to have it right Czech. And that's what we're promising from the construction law novel. What many of you call a demon, a terrible large institution, a new state organization, which, as Minister Kupka said, does not change anything, does not improve, so we see it as a single place where officials can represent themselves thanks to the digitization that we have the agreement on, they can exchange their agendas operationally, from one day to the next. But most importantly, they have uniform procedures, uniform methodologies, and they know exactly what step to take. [[14.00 hours]] Another thing that needs to be argued again in support of the system that we have set up, which we are defending here before you, and we do not want you to change it, are new requirements for protecting public interests, for building quality, often based on European legislation. And we all know that the real system today is just inconspicuous that it's an inconspicuous jungle. What I perceive from your performances frightens me, frightens me in the sense that it will be even more obscure. I'll try to draw it, and, Minister, I'd be happy if you could correct me if I'm wrong. You say: We now want to postpone part of the law in time, move it and from 1. 7. 2023 we use the selected parts, the single permit, the Special and Appellate Building Office, somewhere in the media it was like a new speed clutch or a new shortcut, only for selected buildings, for those state. And here I would also like to point out de facto the contradiction in a number of your statements, now I am speaking to you, colleagues, in general. You say in some sentences: The new institution will not solve anything, we do not want it, but in other sentences we say: We will use the new institution for state construction because it is faster there. It's against each other, isn't it? Either he doesn't solve anything, and then don't use it anywhere - then I'm going back to the fine recommendation of Minister Šalomoun - or let's leave it as it is, and let's find a match again. Let's find a match on how to make it even better, what else to add to the law. But here's the road you've chosen - I don't know, smart hobby: We'll put it off in time, we'll see - now I've noticed somewhere the Minister's statement: We'll deal with territorial planning in the second half of the term, so - and now I don't want to be bad, but let's be honest: you're not going to make it. I mean, it's gonna go all the way back over the years and we're gonna stay right where we are. I'm not going to repeat my article because I published it a while ago, and whoever wanted to read it, and we all know it, what is the content of the new construction law, the unified administration, the institutional change. But now I want to focus more on your attitude, on what you're coming up with and what I've been commenting on for a while. The tender for the post of Chairman of the Supreme Building Office is due to be completed. Even in your electoral programs I've been reading, as the red line shows our consensus on this - acceleration, one stamp, transparent processes, simplification. And you see, then you bring a bill that, in our opinion, is completely against it. But what I'm suggesting is that I don't rip around in quotes in the past, and I don't say who did what and didn't do it. What can be the solution? In my opinion, colleagues, the solution may be not political but professional. If you want to keep your face, which I fully understand, which I fully respect, let's approach the problem professionally. I will now return to last year - I believe it was May, third reading, yes, it was May 26, 2021 - so many of you who were with us then, please remember the long, complex voting procedure. In the third reading, a relatively large number of amendments remained before the gates, which were good, and perhaps there were unvoted or did not receive the broad support just because they were not tuned, they did not have an end in the huge heavy material, they were not perfected. And now that I've looked at them in preparation for today, I'm really sorry that we didn't accept them back then. They had more potential for a wider match. It would help the quality of spatial planning, it would help the quality of building authorisation. And that's what I want to offer you, colleagues, colleagues. Let's define them, let's see how I have the procedure - I have the individual proposals, we all have them or we can track them - and let's try to find a professional consensus with all the players in the field and put them as innovation, as an addition, as a parliamentary amendment to this new construction law in force today. After all, it can be discussed in advance by Members, groups of Members across the political spectrum, and it can really take place in the so-called '90s'. I think it would be a huge symbol for the public and for the professional public - whether for those who want to build and invest - and I understand that in some of your comments and eyes they are the bad, ugly, evil developers, they are not bad for me, because they are people, companies, companies that carry the economy to our country that builds apartments and want to build apartments and do more and more - but they are also those who stand on that shore against them: conservationists of nature, protectors of public interest, water protectors, noise limits, firefighters, we know each other and we have dealt with them and I think that the agreement would be welcomed by the improvement. It was like five crucial points that I marked, and I felt like they were underdrawn, and it was a shame that we couldn't get them into the law. They came out of the four city artifacts. The first was the urban planning of municipalities and cities, the principle that municipalities, primarily municipalities, towns, but also regions, would have a much stronger and stronger role in the development of their territory, the self-governments would say what they want, where they do not want. Now we have had a similar difficult debate or I personally experienced just last night in Pardubice, where we are dealing with a change in the zoning plan that has been going on for perhaps twelve years and we are still failing to reach it. And as I came up with yesterday from a local debate in Pardubice, the big problem for us is the system set up today, I'm going to say the word ping-pong between the buyer and the contracting authority, what we can actually put in those tasks, what we can do, or we can't say as a reminder anymore, and we just can't do it. And it is not the fault of either the coalition or the opposition or the buyer, once again it is the guilt in my opinion of the complex system. The amendment here would clearly say that cities and municipalities themselves will decide, in their own autonomy, what they want to look like, whether they want to develop, expand or not. And then the very approval of individual buildings would be a technique provided by the state administration. We've always given examples of financial authorities, cadastral authorities. After all, they work very well and perhaps we do not remember any significant criticisms - except for exceptions, it was also necessary at the time of the covid - that something was problematic, not working or wrong. Then why not get inspired by it? The second proposal, which we have not worked out and which would have great potential, is the endgame - clear measures against the inactivity of the construction authorities. Fiction of consent is now valid, it is introduced there by the concerned authorities, but it is no longer settled with the very officials of the building office. Thirdly, a better and more accurate definition of the requirements of material law. We dealt with colleagues from Prague's IPR, the Institute of Planning and Development, and architects, really with experts who follow the development of cities, large agglomerations around the world, modern trends. We wanted to describe in this law much better and more precisely and define those general architectural, urban requirements for urban and built areas, but be careful, including environmental requirements, healthy lifestyles, and I admit it was just too much. There was no consensus on this, the amendment was not accepted. Right now - and I will be happiest of all - if I can sit down with Klára Dostálová, with Ivan Bartoš, Martin Kupka on such a beautiful amendment and try to tune it up. Strengthening the role of builder in judicial review. Typical example from our Pardubice Region - the town of Litomyšl, which you know, the castle is there under the protection of UNESCO. Litomyšl has long been such a pearl, such a spa of spirit in our region, and they may have gone - and maybe they were not the only ones - to be a participant in every small project in their city, the direct neighbor, and not just a spa, so historically they have purchased various small strips of land all over the city so that they can always be the neighbor, the one who can express themselves directly. It's working somehow, relatively well, but I guess we all know this isn't the way to go. And once again, the role of builder, we just couldn't work it out last year. And last - strengthening the procedural role of municipalities as the body concerned in the construction order so that they can defend their interests effectively. This is similar in other words to the previous point. It's two points together. [[14.10 hours]] To you, Minister - and I would like to thank you, thank you for being here in this debate and responding to us, I appreciate that you are not leaving it in quotation marks, I want to appreciate this to be heard out loud and on the microphone - I want to ask you and I have two questions for you. The first is for money from the European Union, for those funds that were also timed for Klára Dostálová, ready to start a new system, to start digitization, to buy software, those systems that you need to start competing, select and fulfill and meet some deadlines so that we don't lose the money. So I'm asking you to answer if you're monitoring this, if you're working with the deadlines. If you don't make it through that one-year delay, what's your B option? We're going to give the money back to Europe. Can you argue that we're going to allocate in a different way and elsewhere? I'd like to know your answer to that. And a second reaction to your staffing, please. As we have said with a number of colleagues, since 1. 1. the law is running, the previous government has launched a tender for the chairman of the Supreme Building Office, so please, how do you work with the personnel security? Second, what's at risk. I will not repeat myself, I have already said it, and I have looked briefly at Minister Šalomoun's statement, but maybe I will not read it whole, perhaps it is good to quote the several key phrases quickly. When you asked for an opinion, the Minister specifically proposed an adjustment in this way: "The proposed specific design of the division of effectiveness, or the applicability of the regulation 283' - that is the carrier, the main construction law - 'in particular, contained in the provisions of § 334a) may lead to practical problems, since the assessment of which parts of the law will apply and in relation to which types of construction, especially in the case of sets of buildings, may be related, and in what time period it will probably be rather complicated. The proposed solution is possible and is a question of the political decision of the proposed solution and of the solution to the initiation of the amendment of the new building law of the House. However, from a legislative point of view, I would point out that more practical and more understandable and easier for the addressees of the legislation would be to postpone the effectiveness of the new regulation of construction law as a whole.' And now beware, " including accompanying law No. 284/2021 amending certain laws in connection with adoption" and so on and so on. As I said before, the Minister, your colleague, says, "Don't do it halfway like that, but put it down or move or cancel - however I think you wouldn't like it - both of these laws. And here's the key to my message. I am glad that he is here and is listening to the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka. There in the other press, it was printing 1009, and he had over a thousand pages, Klára Dostálová nods, he was perhaps even more complex or extensive than the main building law, printing 1008, there are 58 component laws, 58 different laws that are changed, it is now interlinked. And according to the initial identification that we have on short notice in terms of the possibilities we have as a opposition, the fundamental problems will be at least with half, with some 25, maybe less than thirty laws. And from the perspective of a Member who deals with transport and deals with colleagues, whether on the Economic Committee or with the Minister, budgets, speeding up - I could go back now and thank you positively for this - to Law No. 416/2009, which we are here successfully - we have, fortunately, reached the agreement - which we have amended here, which works. These buildings are really speeding up at that stage of property law preparation, land purchase, preparation, so now... we've already said, we've got a step and, now we need step B, now we need to back off, now we need that building bill. That, in my opinion, is what we have done. And now, you colleagues, unfortunately, you're coming up with this because - and forgive me - promises, some pre-election rhetoric that you're going to dismantle it and that we're going to see each other and then you're going to finish something. But with all seriousness, I'm seriously warning myself here that if you overrule it and do it in the way that is designed here, the construction process for large infrastructure structures will really stop and collapse. And the reason is simple. Officials - and now whether it's you at the special construction office, or I'm reminding you of these large buildings, we also have a number of small accompanying types of water treatment plants, electric changing plants, just what's around it, what's related to the line construction, those officials first won't know how to decide. Those laws will go against each other. And some explanation that I have noticed in the public space that it will be adjusted or refined by interpretation, legal interpretation or commentary - it cannot stand up in any court. The law either applies or it doesn't. And here, with all due respect, colleagues, I warn you that about 25 laws will be against each other. Everyone will say something different - whether or not an official is integrated, whether or not he has to give an opinion. I'm convinced, I'm really afraid, first of all, that the officials either won't want to or won't be afraid, maybe eventually it'll work out. Someone will force them, push them over, explain, eventually issue the issue, or issue the permit, but what happens in step B? Friends, all those eco-terrorists, all those opponents of the buildings, I think, are cheering, opening champagne, and looking forward to it, because the decisions that have been given will simply not be able to stand up to any court, and they will simply be able to stand up to the copier, right here on the contradiction of the partially deferred building law, but the applicable component laws, and that is what they will be riding on, and I warn you, we will stop all the building proceedings. That's my biggest fear. And now I'm gonna use a little exaggeration, maybe shortcuts for the media, but it's not gonna be that big of an exaggeration. In those arguments, in the materials we have at our disposal, we worked with the amount - it was the amount to defend the new construction law - some 7, a little over 7 billion crowns per year of benefits, the benefits. It was an amount with which - it was originally processed into the RIA already quoted today, mentioned by Professor Mejstřík. I think Dr. Kadečka, too, has been working with those figures in the initial papers for RIA before those for five years, in fact. And they really came out of the whole community's benefits. It can also be explained the other way around, from the other point of view of cost. When you look at the development of the price of transport buildings, the development of the budget of SFDI, really, and we see it much more at this time, every year the delay of those buildings increases their average price, at that time it was about 8 percent. And I guess we'll be in agreement here when we see the problems that I don't envy you at all in the government, and I'm telling you that on the Economic Committee, if there are any good solutions, we're gonna help you. Problems in steel construction, with materials, with prices, it's going to be a much bigger number. Simple reasoning. The SFDI budget is about 120, 130 billion, about 10 percent, we're talking about 12 billion a year, or if I'm conservative - whether I round it up, whether it counts well - it makes it all more expensive every year, and the costs go up by 10 billion a year. So if I put a shortcut here - and you can't argue with that - that year of delay, the year that is proposed here, the Czech Republic will stand on these costs, unnecessarily spent, CZK 10 billion, CZK 10 billion! And so I'm thinking, if I round it up again, that you're probably not all going to be here from the coalition, you're also going to be about a hundred who are going to vote, 10 billion - and correct me, if I'm counting wrong now, 10 billion divided by 100, it's going to be some 100 million for each of you. This will be the value, my friends, of every voice of yours, where you will spend unnecessary costs on the citizens of the Czech Republic. 100 million for each of your votes for a year's delay, a year's delay in this building bill. I see that a number of other colleagues are enrolled in the debate, so I'm going to give them some room, and I'm going to close my performance at the moment with what I said at the beginning. Please, come and try not to spend the hours and hours of these debates in the night by pushing each other over, come and try, Minister, with the former Minister, to make a deal. We can interrupt the meeting, we can interrupt it today. And I believe that if you... maybe I'm a useless optimist or an irreparable optimist. I don't know if we can find a match over the institutional change, or if it's so far away that we just don't agree that there's no other way, it's black and white, A or B. If that's the case, I'll respect it - I'll respect the fact that you have votes for it. [[14.20 hours]] But please, really don't go this way, which you are now designed. Minister, it is simply wrong and it is too risky that you will postpone only one part of the law. So let's try to find another way. Now I don't know what, maybe delaying everything, or ambition - I would sign up for it - the ambition to let the deadline of July 2023 at the moment and let's say that we have some 14, 15 months to complete the process and try to get the new system going. I am fully convinced that we would find a match here and that we could succeed in doing this work together. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u179	Thank you, too. I do not see any proposal being made, just to be clear with the Member. Thank you. I see that with priority rights the Minister for Regional Development is reporting to the general debate. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u180	Thank you for the floor. My generosity to Mr Kolovratník's dialogue, let me say this a little ironically, at one point I was quite moved, especially at the moment he spoke about how it was too late to change something. So, when it was clear how the elections went, and actually before the end of the year, which was crucial for the legislation to come into force, we presented the House Press 63. We wanted to deal with it in December, we submitted it 29. 11. 2021. She wasn't here in the House of Wills to discuss it. It was the YES movement that vetoed the accelerated negotiations in the '90s, and it was the votes YES and SPD who adjourned the negotiations. So, knowing that we do not agree with institutional change, even after the elections that ultimately showed that the future government would be building a coalition of the former opposition, which had a completely opposite view of this institutional change, you blocked us from getting into this situation that we are now trying to address. [[We didn't?]] My answer to why I don't recruit people to the Supreme Building Office is: because it just won't come out in our version. You knew, there was a chance to stop it. I'm not evaluating the proposal that came out of those - I think Pardubice. We presented a very simple novel, which still lies here, which went before date 1. 1. 2022 - and we would not be in a situation where some parts of this proposal began to come to light. The other thing, and I think it's important. Either A pays or B pays. So either the necessity of this rise of the Supreme Building Office is absolutely critical, we have nothing to change and it has to apply, but on the other hand you can't call for it, so let's put it down as a whole. They just can't pay both of these variations either way. The construction process will not stop in the Czech Republic for a year. You guys are talking about it like it's stopped right now because we're talking about something here, building things. The Supreme Building Office will not be created. We said that the institutional plane was unacceptable, that we would implement procedural integration. There is a difference between the NSS institution, the Supreme Building Office - which is an additional office, which is an institution that would be created - and the Specialised Building and Appeals Office, which is an integration office. It will unite other construction offices, I don't know, today under the MIT, the Road Authority, the Railway Authority. So there is the integration of the decision, the unification of methodology, and the constructions that are of super-regional importance, it will work, and it will speed things up. You know, you were saying about how many things we couldn't work out. When the Ministry of Regional Development decided to change the construction law in the last parliamentary term, we organized several round tables here in the House - there were members of the House YES - and we talked about how crucial part of territorial planning and fundamental changes were, even in the development of land planning documentation and regulatory plans. However, the new building law did not aim at this, it was not a gros. Gros was the process with which I fully agree - one filing, one stamp, one process, it's going to be built. That's integration, but there was no ambition at all to interfere with this. On the contrary, we have the ambition. We conduct negotiations with individual Stakeholders, as they say, with municipalities, with spatial planning experts, but in this short period, so that the subsequent digital projects can also take place, our ambition is not to change that. If it were our way - it was the most common complaint at the launch of this initiative in the last parliamentary term: the analysis does not contain part of the territorial planning, let us approach it differently. That didn't happen. A lot of the designs you were talking about -- too bad we didn't finish them. The amendments to this were to the press and were rejected here in the House. You're the one who asked about the money about the digitization of the building process. There is a key term from IROP to 1. 1. 2024, when the four must be - or the basic systems, not the Construction Portal. I've been there about three months at the Ministry. When I began to find out how the DSŘ was running, the digitization of the building process, it was essentially the responsibility of an employee who ended up there. There is one legal advisory firm with which a budget is exhausted, which oversees the legitimacy or legality of the dialogue conducted with potential suppliers, on the basis of which the proceedings will then be set aside, and there is a sort of co-operating regime of an ICT representative of the Union that will have to end, because I assume that even the companies that will want to compete in the future are probably under the heading of the EU's ICT. So I've inherited, let's just say, the wild readiness of this whole digitization project. I have no choice but to deal with it, I hope the Ministry of Regional Development will succeed. Otherwise, it has been said here for several times, the magic number of the order of the Czech Republic. I have already mentioned this several times that the study was subsequently called into question and I would please not operate this number as the order of the Czech Republic. We're not saying it's fast here. Nobody's saying that the construction process is going on without a problem. That's why we didn't criticize the whole law, just the institutional chassis. So if I were to sum up what's actually causing us the biggest problems right now. It's not our unpreparedness, we have the law prepared, the novel in question. At the turn of this month, including a unified environmental opinion from the Ministry of Environment workshop, these proposals go to the inter-reort. What is causing us trouble is non-compliance with the agreement before the end of the year and blocking the discussion of the proposal so that we don't even get to the stage when these things are legally invading. Now we're trying to postpone the effectiveness so that in the meantime we can approve a substantive amendment. The last thing I find very interesting. So it's either the people - experts, architects, engineers, environmentalists, whom you call eco-terrorists, when it happens to fly away sometimes, but that's what happens - I don't know if you're saying that everyone that this person meets tells him anything different, but when I meet architects, urbanists, protectors, conservationists, people from Unesco, people who understand territorial planning and building management, they're very critical of the fact that nothing has been done in this regard, that in fact, in a number of cases, there is a weakening of the protection of public interest. I looked, as with the demonic bias, at the actual results of each dispute. If you look at these, let's say, more complex structures, those organizations that somehow attack the solution to the construction are a big percentage - and I can see that the number isn't there, so they're successful, which shows that their approach isn't kverulant, that there's actually an error in the same process that they're trying to correct. [[14.30 hours]] I think that it is the digitalisation and transparency of the building process, so that the participants can see at what stage it is, what the individual opinions of the institutions concerned are, that it is essential to eliminate this phenomenon, when something is approved and then it is contested. So I would suggest not to delay the process and the agony of the stretching, why there is not something that still does not arise, because the view is different, and I would support precisely the postponement of the validity, with the fact that the special building appeal office, which is needed, will start to work and the House in the nearest period for discussion at the level of the government, will land a substantive amendment, which, including the laws you are talking about, will correct the matter in the horizon, that it will be clear on the basis of which it will be digitised and on the basis of which it will be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u181	Thank you, Minister. Your speech raised a point of fact that Mrs. Klára Dostálová is reporting with. Your two minutes, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u182	Thank you, thank you. I would only react really quickly. The Minister here spoke of the press 63, which they submitted in December. It came to us at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the end of January 2022. If you remember correctly, I was just pointing out that there is a need to discuss this, especially with the legal community, because it really comes across the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. That is why I put forward the procedural proposal by the beginning of March - and of course nothing happened, while instead of the Minister acting, he prepared an identical government proposal, which still runs into the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I also intercede for what Mr. Kolovratník here said, through you, and by the Minister, that we should act because this trumped really doesn't lead anywhere. And the fact that this is a legal problem, that is what your very chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government told you. I don't know what we're discussing here. I would merely take the point of territorial planning, because Mayor Hřib was the one who disagreed with the amendment in the final because he joined the Union of Towns and Municipalities. So Prague as a city prepared it together with us, we had an amendment for Mr. Mayor Hřib to throw a pitchfork in the finals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u183	Thank you for keeping time. I do not see any further factual comment. I see that, with priority rights, the President of the ANO Parliamentary Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, is reporting. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u184	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I've announced to the government coalition that it will be necessary to take a 30-minute break, I see it's 1431 hours, so within 15.01. or 15.02 hours, for the election commission's meeting. I was asked by the President of the Election Commission so that the documents could be prepared and elections to the relevant funds could take place on 6 April 2022, so the Commission must meet today because the deadline ends on Sunday. Representatives of the government coalition know this, it's not on purpose. I think you'd all like to get some rest, get some coffee, and go jump on the terrace over there, so I'm asking for a 30-minute break at the election committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u185	Thank you. At the request of the ANO member club, I am declaring a 30-minute break, within 15.02 hours, when we will meet again here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u186	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue today's meeting. We are in a general debate. Mr Roman Kubíček is another member of the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, and the rest of the room, I'm gonna ask for some peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm certainly not going to make a procedural proposal, so if you need anything to talk about, you can go behind the door. I understand that, and I will try to be very brief. Recodification of public building law, which was dealt with by the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term, was the response to inefficiency, infunction, complexity and long-term system that has been tolerated and made possible here for years. Indeed, it was necessary to simplify extremely complex authorisation processes in order to remove its biggest problems and vices, while maintaining the necessary level of protection of all rights and public interests, also a fundamental change to the entire construction law. In addition to the change in process and material regulation, the overall institutional reform was also a prerequisite for such simplification and efficiency. It also includes major changes to the organisation of the state administration concerned, as well as the revision of the existing mixed model for the performance of the state administration in the construction sector, in order to ensure the necessary efficiency, predictability and speed of performance of the state administration. The new public building law, and it was the intention from the very beginning, is clear, simple, understandable, applicable, enforceable and enforced, and the new legislation also clearly defines the legal responsibility of actors throughout the process of the management of the territory. In the past, it was possible for any political party to write a new construction law, shorten the permit processes and simplify the construction procedure. But to the great disappointment of the past ten years, no one has been fully involved. What situation did we finally get into? I'm gonna say some numbers. So buildings are allowed by 714 municipal construction offices, 606 special construction offices, 4 military construction offices, 9 mining offices and 4 other special ones. In order for a builder to be able to go through this process, 85 laws must be followed, according to 50 laws, with the authorities concerned they must provide for statements on construction, according to 20 other laws to obtain additional documents and documents such as energy performance proof, certificates, separate permits, noise study, radon survey, energy assessment, exemption authorisation, and follow other 15 regulations, where requirements are to be followed by a designer. Then the zoning decision contains 193 pages, the statement is contained on 69 pages and the reasons on 124 pages and it requires up to 140 comments and 130 subjects to comment. We have managed to change this delicately in recent years, not quickly, but there has been some improvement in this situation over the past six years. However, the necessary changes will be made to these five groups, which is a citizen, an office, a city, a municipality, an investor and a state. And in any case, there must be clear rules, because officials will have to use a uniform methodology when approving buildings: minimum stamps, review associations, limited number of proceedings, building permits within 60 days, less bureaucracy and thanks to digitization of information and information on where his application is located. So what exactly are we dealing with today? Against simplification, transparency, clear conditions? Probably not, this view is probably just the institutional one, because most of these things, and I think they'll both be with me, the former minister, and the minister, agree, we've actually come across a little problem that I don't think is that big. The whole process, which is set up by this recodification, is quite transparent, public, will have a digital footprint and the possibility of public control, which was mainly the intention for everyone to look at the way in which the process took place without any questions and without any doubt. So now we are in a position to criticize and delay it. And I'm asking, how quickly will it be changed? How will this happen? Because every child has some kind of birthing pain, it always works somehow. As stated here, perhaps even this law is not entirely perfect, but what law is perfect? In fact, it is only then that practice shows whether everything has been designed correctly, incorrectly. But we can fix that and somehow get into some kind of, say, wannabe ideal state. I'm not gonna completely touch the systemic bias, I've prepared a few examples here before, but it sounded like the course of these individual speakers, and I'd probably repeat myself. These are interesting things including Prague, such as Prague 12, Prague 22. It was very interesting, but you'll find it, it's publicly available on the Internet, in the press and so on. And now I would really like to know whether, for example, the ODS was interested in information from business associations, from the Chamber of Commerce and so on, which very much supported the creation of this law. It is the integration of the construction offices and the authorities concerned, that is the only apple of contention in the whole legislation, the other is details. It is a necessary condition for one decision to authorise the building to be issued. They said one paper - one stamp. I don't really know how to do this in the fragmentation, but I note that I will not criticize all the construction agencies because I had a very good experience with the construction office when I got the list of requirements, I gave them up and in 35 days I had a building permit. [[15.10 hours]] It wasn't such a big deal, only the question is whether it works the same way - and I know that there is a shortage of these workers in the South Bohemia, because if you pick up an engineer at the level of an engineer who deals with building law or building management, he will leave you within a very short period of time, because the salary offered by private companies doesn't affect the state administration half of it. That's just the way it is, then people change, and as my friend recently told me, he submitted a construction procedure sometime in October, so it hasn't started yet, and it's for the simple reason - the lady who was the only one in charge was sick for two months, and because she manages the region of Lipenska, where the applications are huge, so now she's throwing herself into it, but he's somewhere in that order, so maybe he'll come to it by summer. That's the kind of thing that works out of practice. It will be very good if the management is done by experts with uniform practice, with uniform training and with a uniform methodology, because then we will really avoid any conjecture, and there will be no policy in this proceeding, and politics will only be reflected in the territorial plan where representative democracy is actually being implemented, and politicians should determine where individual communities, cities will go. In the global, we have to say that politicians are not required to be qualified or a monument expert, a traffic expert, he has such a deeper knowledge within some surface, and whenever he needs to make a decision, he goes to counsel, whether he's a lawyer or a specialist, an engineer and so on. So only under the conditions of the new system of state building administration should there be any acts that should strengthen the area of personnel, including the level of salaries and expertise, efficiency, while at the same time strengthening the independence of officials, as well as other conditions for staff stability, career growth and personal development, and the proper exercise of their activities, effective sharing of professional personnel capacities and resources. This is the example where you will be able to borrow an official who has less work to do in another territory. In addition to the creation of specialized professional workplaces on the issue of line and energy buildings, which is completely different from the construction of apartment buildings or family houses and requires professional specialization. In addition, to improve the possibility of methodological management of civil servants by state authorities, to ensure a uniform and predictable application of public building law and to eliminate the problem of systemic bias of the entire construction offices within the local authorities. So, folks, I know you have the strength and you can vote it out, but I'm just going to ask you to consider your next steps. You may have no problem deciding something today, but we also need to know where you want to go next, how quickly you want to do it, and if you have a match on what it's going to look like - because, yes, this consensus has been looking for a very problematic, very long time, and the rapporteur is aware of that, the amount of negotiations. Yeah, well, I'm a little worried that we shouldn't go back in that cycle to the process of acting for a year. We're gonna act for a year, and it's not gonna do anything. In my opinion, it would probably be wiser to pursue the improvement of the existing law and implement these things on the march, or then appeal to speed up the legislative process very quickly, because it is essential that this be done as soon as possible. I can't tell if by the end of the year in the months, I can't imagine how the legislation will run and how it will be. If we don't get to that, we've gone the way of dangerous gambling, and the builder will be on the way he's been to this day, and he'll curse us all. Thank you for your attention and have a nice rest of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u188	Mr Member, thank you, Mrs Romana Fischerová is next logged in or logged in, and I would like to ask Mrs Lenka Knechtová to prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I can only agree with what Mrs Klára Dostálová and other colleagues from the club have said very well in front of me. The government of the ANO movement has been preparing the construction law for four years with one goal - to speed up the construction process and to improve our citizens' access to their own housing. We are one of the slowest countries in the world in the length of the construction process, in total 156th place from 195 evaluated countries. I am interested in the issue of young families, and I know how difficult it is for young people to achieve their own housing, and it would be the simplification and shortening of the construction process that would help them greatly. This is guaranteed by the existing construction law. In Lysá nad Labem, I have the experience of citizens complaining about how many different entities speak for the construction process. The construction law from the YES pen addresses this and simplifies the requirements for project documentation. Furthermore, we have experience in Lysá that citizens very often complain about the obstruction of various entities in the construction process. The current construction law also addresses this. It does not deny anybody the right to participate in the building procedure which it concerns, but guarantees that the objections will only be applied once and as soon as possible. It will be very helpful to our citizens that obstruction and artificial extension of the construction process will not block the development of municipalities. And now the current government is proposing that these very important and beneficial changes be postponed. I am very sorry, and I think that this is not a good move for citizens in general, but especially for young families who are waiting to speed up the construction process so that they can finally achieve better on their own housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u190	Thank you, Mrs Lenka Knecht, and the next enrollment is Mrs Lenka Knechtová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u191	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, which I do not see here at the moment, honourable Members, because everything is essential has been said, I will limit myself from my point of view to the most important thing. In practice, I see a great difference between the conditions in which a city construction worker works and what premises and technical equipment the construction and planning department worker has at the city office. These differences will be clearly eliminated under the head of the state. It is also important to strengthen the independence of officials, which we must always strive for. At a time earlier, it was important to have funds to build, and both citizens and self-government tried to be patient. Currently, the time aspect is at the same level as the financing for construction, because not only the prices of building materials are rising significantly in each quarter of the year. It is therefore important to move on to a new legal solution that has already been prepared and is valid. I would also like to return to the construction process in the Czech Republic. In common practice, we are witnessing the transfer of files between the building office of first degree and the appeal body, the construction office of the regional office and back in several rounds. Finally, as a member of the Committee on Petitions of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to draw attention to the Ombudsman's position, which he criticises, in the long term, that decisions by the building authorities concerning the demolition of so-called black buildings have not been enforced. In the Ombudsman's report, there is a warning about cases in which the building authorities imposed a fine on the builder for failing to comply with the final decision to remove the construction. However, they did not proceed to the right of anticipated performance itself, but it is not only the decision to issue but, above all, to exercise, the obligation of the building authorities to comply with the legal obligations. Not only does construction law in the Czech Republic deserve a separate model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u192	Thank you, Mrs Brož, and I'd like to ask another one who's logged in, this is Mr Lubomír Brož. In the meantime, I would also like to apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, from 15 to 16 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Jan Richter, between 15 and 16.30 because of the visit of the doctor and Mr Michálek from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, for working reasons. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, much has been said, I will really just be brief. I understand, of course, that the aim is, above all, to separate and postpone the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, the regional construction offices as state authorities. I would just add a few of those things that are worth repeating, perhaps, because last year's construction law was created because the state of construction law in the Czech Republic was unsustainable, really completely unsustainable. The authorisation process is one of the longest in the world, let us be aware of this, and the new law is intended, among other things, to unite procedures, to prevent possible influence of the building process, to ensure compliance with deadlines. People simply want the construction process to be quick, simple and cheap, and this building law allows. This is a legal standard that has been waiting for a very long, very long time and has been accompanied by a broad expert debate. For these and many other reasons, I support the new building law not only as an MP but also as the deputy mayor of the city section. What, then, is really serious, what I heard from Martin Kolovratník's speech? The 10 billion crowns, if we now approve what is presented. 10 billion crowns, colleagues, that's really not a small sum. I'd just like to make two comments about what I have to say. There's one with a question. The new construction law envisaged the issue of a new decree on construction requirements, which was intended to harmonise the laws of the law and to ensure that the requirements for construction were applied also to cultural monuments, buildings in conservation reserves or landmark zones. The proposed House press does not contain information as to whether this decree will be issued for this amendment, or in what form. I would like to ask the petitioner, if necessary, to clarify this question for me. In this broader context, I am particularly concerned with the protection of monuments, where we have really big debts to history and a lot of things to fix. And then maybe I'd quite conclude what happened here in different dimensions, and that's the subject of legal uncertainty. The state where the new building law will be effective, but most processes will be carried out according to existing legislation, will create confusion and legal uncertainty. It is a question of whether the state of law will be required to follow a law that is no longer effective, while the law which replaces it will be fully effective whether it is in accordance with constitutional order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u194	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. And the next person who is logged in is Mrs Renata Oulehlová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u195	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, ministers and Mr President. I really applied only briefly from the practice of the mayor of the city, where I would like to appeal to you on a particular example. In 2016, we decided to build a home for the elderly. We had everything prepared, including finance, including all things, but the construction process took us until 2019. Different statements of the authorities concerned, then someone will appeal against the statement, it is simply a cycle for a very, very long period of time. Therefore, as mayor, I welcome one stamp, one system that we would put the applications in. Request for the system will be unified, everything will be settled quickly. In addition, there will be unification of rules and the possibility of representativeness. We all know how long it takes for one of the officials to be sick in the long run, and we're cycling again. Therefore, I would certainly like that law to be adopted as soon as possible and to be as low as possible in the uncertainty in which the cities live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u196	Thank you, ma'am. I will ask another who is registered, and this is Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, or gentlemen of Ministers, dear colleagues, I would like to remind most of the principles of the new construction law. The citizen will no longer have to worry that someone will appeal against the building office's decision, and the authorities will toss his case among themselves like hot potatoes. The Bureau will be at a different level. The law introduces the so-called appeal principle, which states that the appeal body will have to decide on the matter. The current institutional model of the building office is unclear and complicated, as there are also many special construction offices for various types of buildings, such as special, military, railway and water law. The new state building system transfers construction offices directly under the state and creates a completely new two-part structure headed by the Supreme Building Office and the Specialised and Appellate Building Office, which will also deal with legally reserved buildings such as motorways or airports. The basic stage of the construction system will be the regional construction offices located in regional cities with territorial workplaces in municipalities. First of all, the Ministry will make every effort to ensure that all officials carry out their activities in the same buildings where they currently work. If no agreement is concluded between the State and the local authorities, then other, new, suitable premises will be rented. It's more like a reaction to people not knowing where to go. However, in order to protect nature and monuments in the new building system, no bodies concerned will be fully integrated, or bodies such as the Nature and Landscape Protection Agency, on issues of specially protected areas, but only one document, and not a few, as has been common so far. The conservation authorities will be partly integrated in the protection zones of immovable cultural monuments, immovable national cultural monuments, conservation reserves or conservation zones. Other processes relating to monuments will remain within the competence of the state conservation authorities. The Fire Rescue Department will not be integrated into the Supreme Building Office. However, none of these authorities will avoid strict compliance with the deadlines, because they will also be subject to approval fiction. At present, construction offices employ approximately 7 000 officials in the municipalities. That's a number worth mentioning, actually, 7,000 officials. Thanks to the simplification of the building agenda and its digitalisation, work should be able to carry out only 4 000 to 5 000 employees, which is 25 to 30 percent of the labour saving. Officials will enter the service. in addition, they will be conducted in a uniform method. This will prevent incorrect official procedures and will therefore speed up the application process. Today, the builder usually needs a territorial decision and a building permit, often the expression of owners of transport and technical infrastructure and binding opinions and opinions of the authorities concerned. With the new construction law, he'll only need one permit from a single construction office. The building office will handle almost all the documents that the builder himself provides today. Everything will be considerably easier for any builder, whether for a citizen with plans for a family house, or a large investor who, due to construction of motorways, railways, airways, nuclear power plants and other major buildings, will be able to contact the Specialized Building Office. [[15.30 hours]] All operations between the construction worker, the construction office, the authorities concerned and the public transport and technical infrastructure owners shall be carried out electronically. The basic means of communication will be the integration platform of the building management and the Portal of the builder. Instead of a paper application with dozens of annexes, confirmations and stamps, the builder will newly submit an electronic application, which will be uploaded to the system, including project documentation. These are the main principles of the new construction law. They're only in a nutshell, but I think it's worth reminding them and letting its effectiveness run as it's set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u198	Mr. MP, thank you, and I will ask for another enrollment, and this is Mr. Martin Kolovratník. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u199	Well, Marek Benda notes I'm going twice, yes. I didn't want to make it an interpellation to the minister who's on Thursday, so I signed up properly, and I promise, it'll really be brief. But it's a reaction to Minister Bartoš's performance. He reacted in some way to me, and unfortunately, the Minister proved to me what I said here, and he actually confirmed my argument. Minister, you're still working on the deadline to postpone, that you're delaying part of the law, but I want to point out here, that's an intervention in a running, effective, running regulation. There's a huge difference. And the argument is kind of stuck in December. In December before January 1st, this could be a delay, it could have been done differently, but today the law runs, it's just running and effective. And now that I have mentioned Marek Benda, I will turn not only to him, but to all of you who are close to the law, to constitutional order. Here I really see a lack of constitutionality and some quality of the approach to legislation that we would like and should have, and I quote very briefly - I looked up one of the comments, one of Professor Gerloch's performances, which generally says: "The attributes of legal certainty formulate five postulates which, in terms of legal certainty, are intended to fulfil the rule of law. It is a certainty that a good right will be created, that no one will be restricted in his rights without legal reasons, that the acquired rights will be investigated, that everyone will be able to exercise his rights and that, finally, anyone who violates the law will be fairly affected." Furthermore, the professor works with predictability, with some possibility of legal certainty and so on. Yet if we already have - and many Berenika Peštová has talked about it and explained it - whether we already have an effective running legal standard, and not only Professor Gerloch, but also other constitutional lawyers say - again I quickly quote: "The principle of fulfilling legitimate expectations is to express a more general requirement of legal certainty. It understands such a situation where both objective law and subjective rights of natural and legal persons are stable, uniform, relatively simple and predictable in the long term.' And now illustrated: "This principle prevents, for example, the tax laws from changing to the detriment of taxpayers during the accounting year. " It's only been done since the next year, or in a year and a half, or at some point. The same - illustrated: "Change the conditions of the selection procedure after payment of the entry fee or unduly cancel the procedures and so on." And in that situation, according to my interpretation, we are now. The construction law, when discussed and adopted last year, was precisely why it had delayed efficiency with a gradual run since 1st January and then with a gradual rollover from 1st July 2023, but now it is running. And my interpretation, indeed, Minister, is that you are interfering with a running effective regulation. And I've appreciated your willingness to discuss, to dialogue, you've made it a little easier, I don't mind, I'll appreciate it again. I'm glad you guys aren't just sitting here, not sitting out, but really getting into this debate with us. I'm gonna finish this, and I'm gonna ask for your explanation. Let's illustrate what you mean by that, because you in all the debates - and I've been online or I've been watching them or from the record - you explain what you want now, put that part down, move it, then work something out. But I'm really responsible for saying, I've never noticed anywhere that you were commenting or explaining the amendment law, and the link to the 58 others, to the integration. And in one particular statement of yours, I see a contradiction that illustrates it completely. It is from your Facebook page from January 19, 2022 - briefly, I will not read it all, I quote: "We also want to abolish the so-called institutional integration. According to the new construction law, the construction office was to take up decisions on, for example, water protection, monuments, forests and so on. It's comfortable, but risky. We don't want the factory to start draining waste water under our garden." And now: "On the contrary, we want to preserve the principle of one office, one stamp. The builder will submit the complete documentation to the construction office and does not care about anything." That's the end of the quote, Minister, from your Facebook page. You are now explaining to us that you will tear it apart, that the ultimate ideal state that is right in your political opinion will be two systems, one for the ordinary builders, somehow integrated, or perhaps not at all, and the other one accelerated, the state reserved buildings, which will therefore benefit from a unified building administration. But in your comments, you're talking about an office. So please ask us whether you would give us the idea of how you want to do it or how you want to do it, explain very briefly and illustrate how this integration will look, where the builder will send it and how the officials will work in the ideal, correct quotation marks of the condition that you would like, as I understand, to work out in the next year and discuss here in the House. And that's it for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u200	Thank you, honourable Member. We have two priority points here. President Fiala prefers Minister Bartoš. So, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u201	Well, I don't know what to say to Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President, about the first argument. You basically said that you can't change the law that's in force because it's unconstitutional. That's what I'm talking about. This would mean that Parliament does not have to sit at all, because all the laws have already been passed, so they are valid for some time. We're discussing some change, and if we manage to discuss it and vote it in any other law, by some date, the legal regulation that was so far will cease to apply, and the new legislation that has passed through both chambers will begin to apply, ideally put it in the law collection and this law applies, so I don't fully understand the argument. The law is gradually coming into force, individual things are being created, the Supreme Building Office was being created in paper, the previous government, when leaving us the budget, did not make a chapter in the budget, where there would be more than zero counted on the Supreme Building Office this year, so I don't actually see the contradiction there. And so I ask, or do I ask, if what you said applies, does that mean that no existing law that governs companies, citizens, anyone in the Czech Republic, cannot be changed by a legislative process? It's a word game, but I've been listening so much to what comes out of the first part. Apart from the NSU, all the proposed changes will be in the future, so the change will just happen. Ideally, it'll be the only way. You asked about integration. The integration actually takes place at the Special Building Office and the Appeals Office, but that is in the bill's proposal, as you proposed it and we leave it, because it is buildings that are of a super-regional nature, and there is the integration in our opinion - and so there was an agreement during the previous discussion, which we did not dispute, the integration at the level of the process itself - so we are talking about the integration of the process, not the institutional one that will allow you to attach individual opinions to the building process in the digital world. Some have remained binding, some have different forms and the result is still one process against which you can appeal, one building procedure as a whole. An important integration is here in this single environmental opinion prepared by the Ministry of Environment, which will go in a package with a substantive amendment to the Construction Act, which integrates x opinions of x public interests relating to part of the environment, and into the process of building management or any other process, because it is universal legislation, can intervene as one already integrated opinion on environmental issues. [[15.40 hours]] I tried to answer your question about the future. We're trying to keep most of the law as it is. After all, our comprehensive amendment aimed at integration, which was proposed by the Minister through the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, and of course the amendment of the laws under which there are two is under way, the Ministry of Regional Development and the teams of all other ministries covered by the relevant legislation are working on it. It will be presented in one package, as I said, at the turn of this month and next month, including a single environmental position, which is the legal regulation from the Ministry of Environment's pen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u202	Minister, thank you. We have one more factual point, and this is Mrs Peštová. The President of the Fiala should then follow with priority rights. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u203	Thank you. Mr Minister, through Mr President, what you are saying is something else. You say the law can be amended, that's not what anyone's saying. Yes, the law can be amended. If the law is passed, it is possible to make changes and can be amended, no one has a problem with that. The problem is that the law has become effective since 1. 1. It takes effect and what is in that law - Mr Benda will surely tell me now: Yes, you are right - it is your duty to fulfill, because the effectiveness is not shifted. She's already got a 1. 1. 2022 and before that, it became effective in July and further, because it is divided, it becomes 1. 7. 2023. And now we're talking about the fact that what has already been and is to be done according to it is not done, that is, the Supreme Building Office, the President of the Supreme Building Office should be competing, and there are other and other points that you already have to do under that law. That means, not that you're getting into some kind of hole, you're just breaking the law, that's the problem. That's the problem we're telling you here, and you're trying to hide it for pushing efficiency. No, the law came into effect 1. 1. 2022 and you're flagrantly breaking the law. That's the problem, and that's why I wanted the answers, and that's why I asked for a break to be answered by the Minister of Legislation to answer that question. That's his bread.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u204	Thank you, ma'am. President Fiala has the floor now with priority rights, and in the meantime, I am merely withdrawing the apology of President Markéta Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u205	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I also have about two questions for Minister Bartoš. I'm glad he's sitting here answering our questions. During the last period I also pulled out some things either written by the Minister on Twitter or appeared in the press. One of those things on Twitter is very simple. The government has approved a partial delay in the effectiveness of the new construction law and so on, we want to defend the interests of citizens more, digitize the construction proceedings, preserve the principle of one office, one stamp, submit the amendment in the middle of this year. Now it is described when the Minister will present the novel and how he would have imagined it would go on. And I would like to ask -- basically all I keep hearing from Minister Bartoš is words about the digitization of the building process to solve the whole problem. I think we can partly agree with that, but actually digitalization is already part of the approved proposal, and I think we agree that the construction law certainly deserves digitalization and that it will help, we are in agreement. But I don't understand the message of the need for an amendment. The approved law also contains the principle of one office, one stamp and digitization, so tell us, Minister, what is going to happen in the amendment that you are going to submit. You're asking for a year, six months, now I don't know exactly, delay, delay. What exactly is going to happen that year, what do you want to put in that bill, what do you want to put in it differently? Because if I remember correctly, as Chairman of the Economic Committee, I was involved in negotiations with various professional associations, professional chambers, basically everyone agreed to the law and had nothing against it. I'm afraid that if we ask for this whole change, then the responsibility will really be up to you as Minister Bartoš, because the consensus with the construction law occurred in the last parliamentary term. I also don't know why half-hearted proposals to postpone efficiency are being put forward from my point of view. We've been talking about this all day today, about the fact that it's not really about the effectiveness of the amendment law, which is part of the construction law, so I'm missing the whole meaning of the design and concept of the solution. So if you could also say something about it, because we voted for that law in the SPD because it concerns all types of builders, all types of buildings, that means citizens, state, highways, family house, just everyone. I think that delaying this law can really not only be legally problematic for officials, for all types of builders, but we can just get into a mess that will be both the ministry and the people who want to build something hard to cope with. When I asked the people of the Ministry of Regional Development, no one was even able to answer me about the particular reason why there should be this uncertainty in the building process for the builders, why the change is necessary, so if you could tell us that again. That's my question number one. Question number two is: when I read in Lidovky in January that part of the new construction legislation should also be the obligation of the Office to comply with the statutory deadlines, and if the Office simply fails to meet them, the applicant is lucky and his request would be considered to be approved under the rules of silence. I have no choice but to agree with this, however, what you are proposing and what you are saying, so I remember that we had an amendment in the past period, and if I remember correctly, you, Minister, were against the proposal, and now you are supporting it here and putting it. So from my point of view, that means that your attitude is not professional, but rather political - just if someone else puts it forward, I'll be against it, then I'll take it myself, submit it myself, and approve it myself. So if there's anything you can tell me about it, too. I have also noted one more thing, and that you said today that you discussed with the actors concerned and procedural reform. When I spoke to some of my colleagues, no one told me that there would be an official meeting, that as a minister with professional chambers, associations, you would talk to them and that you would discuss it with them. So if you could tell me who you were talking to and if that even happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u206	I thank the President and the rapporteur is still reporting to the debate. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u207	Thank you. In the general debate, I am still a Member. I've really been watching all my shows very carefully today, and I have to ask, too. I liked the Minister's sentence: either A pays or B pays, both do not go together. The Minister, I will also use his sentence: What has become effective does not change. So I would just like to remind you what has become effective. The Construction Act shall take effect on 1 July 2023, with the exception of the provisions which take effect on the day following the date of its publication, that is to say from 30 July 2021. So we have already gained efficiency: § 36, definition of territory in order to ensure defence and security of the state, § 319, territorial development plan, § 322, validity of territorial planning documentation approved before 1. 1. 2022, § 324, not using certain parts of the land planning documentation, § 326 para. 1, territorial measures. On 1 January 2022, we became effective: § 15 to 18 of the State Building Administration, the Supreme Building Office, the Specialised and Appellate Building Office and the Regional Construction Offices, § 312 para. Article 1 (1) and (7), transitional provisions to offices and civil servants, § 313 para. 1 and 2, deadline and authorisation for the award of tenders for the post of director of the Specialized and Appellate Building Office and of directors of individual regional construction offices and the Building Office for the Capital City of Prague. At the same time, § 315 para. 1, transfer of jurisdiction to the Supreme Building Office to manage state property. So if what the Minister said was effective in the area of planning documentation, we will not change it, so I assume that the other paragraphs have also come into effect, which we will not change either, because they have already taken effect. What, then, is ahead of us to see what the next steps are? Because the issue of implementing decrees for the new building law is very important to the new building law. So the Supreme Building Office is really due this year to issue a decree on building rules, a decree on building documentation, a decree on construction requirements, a decree laying down the operating conditions of the Construction Construction Portal, a decree determining the content of territorial-analytical documents or the assignment of a zoning plan, a decree on the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning and a uniform standard of territorial plans and other documentation. Given what the Minister himself has now essentially confirmed here, that we are not changing what has become effective, so the Minister will not have a problem with the fulfilment of the National Recovery Plan, because component 1.6 is also a milestone of the entire National Recovery Plan, because the reform of construction law mattered very much to the European Commission, which has allocated CZK 1.6 billion to the creation of the Supreme Building Office and to the reform. At the same time, of course, I understand, and I say it again here, I understand the political task that colleagues are actually involved with. I'm sure there's a way to make it as it was said here to avoid retroactivity, which I'm sure the lawyers here will confirm is a big problem. Let's stop today's negotiation of the law itself! It's nonsense, we're putting off part of the law, we're talking about retroactivity completely openly on the microphone, like it doesn't go down. I understand it wants to come back, first instance in the community. I understand, let's sit down, prepare a proper novel. On the contrary, I don't want to advise the Minister here, but he would have met the milestone of the National Recovery Plan. The fact that the Supreme Building Office may then become a Specialized Building Office is a development in time. But of course, those things would be filled as such. I would very much like to stop by a few more points. Since, of course, the professional unions have turned to all of you, I would really like them to respond to the answers to the questions as to how the potential amendment is actually coming up. At the same time, by stopping it today, we will actually speed up the solution to black buildings and all these matters. I think it is for the benefit of the development of the Czech Republic itself. As for one thing that I would like to touch, I do not want to open the debate here today about the upcoming amendment at all, but given that the Minister has touched it and mentioned two things here, please note that if there is no actual integration of the institutions concerned, but everyone will remain seated with different authorities, with different employers, it will be really very difficult to coordinate their position, because everyone has different employers and other job assignments. This means that what President Fiala here has said will happen very often - to the fiction of consent. The more fictional consent will be, that means the Bureau will not comment on it at all, the more it will, of course, end up in the courts, and that will be a big problem. At the same time, I would like to warn from this place. The minister here spoke of a single environmental permit. Please, Minister, you are the Minister of Regional Development, not the Minister of the Environment. We're not gonna make a superstamp. That means no one can build a doghouse until they get an environmental opinion. This really needs to be integrated under the construction office to be coordinated. But let's really save this debate for some more discussions. So, given what has been said here today, let me make some suggestions. I would like to make a motion to dismiss the law on the grounds that this is unnecessary. We have a novel to prepare as quickly as possible, let's try to find a common language so that it can really all apply to 1. 7. 2023. After all, the crisis that is pouring on us in the area of housing and so on is supposed to motivate us to accelerate, not slow down. If the motion to dismiss fails, I'm giving another proposal to recast the petitioner so that legal issues that are undisputed are really solved. If this did not even pass, since there was no inter-ministerial or legislative council of the Government, let me at least extend the time limit for committee discussions to 75 days so that the constitutionally-legal committee also has the opportunity to make a legitimate statement on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u208	Thank you to the rapporteur. I've marked everything, and I'll get back to it in the end. I see Prime Minister Excellent reporting with privilege. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u209	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, given the content of this amendment to the Construction Act, when we are actually dealing with priority issues and only the issue of deferred partial efficiency, we do not think that there is any reason to prolong the time for committee discussions. I'm sure we won't be resisting it after we discuss the other matter. Of course, there's a logic to it, so we can talk about it there. On the contrary, at this point, I would like to propose a reduction of the time limit for the committees to 30 days for the ODS, KDU-ČSL, STAN, TOP 09 and Pirates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u210	Thank you to the President of the Excellent. Would you like to come to a general debate? Not as a final word? [[To Minister Bartoš.]] Okay, so I'm still asking if anyone wants to speak in the context of the general debate? No one wants any more in the framework of the general debate, thank you, and this concludes the general debate. And I'm asking the Minister if he wants the final word? Yes. And before he does, I have an apology Havránek, for family reasons from 15 o'clock to the end of the negotiations. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u211	I thank you for the floor and thank you all Members for spending the day here today when we discussed material, mostly material reservations, which are sort of a clash of two views on what the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic are supposed to look like in the future, whether this is to be according to the pattern that arose during the previous parliamentary term or what the parties that are parties to government at this time. [[16.00 hours]] The law only took part in its effectiveness. The delay of its partial effectiveness is so legitimate and is not unconstitutional. No rights will be suppressed or restricted. The law is effective only in the creation of a building administration and a government coalition, the current government, when it was in opposition, has all the time declared that this system, this system change is not acceptable for us and that we will try to return, if we succeed in the elections, the model where the construction authorities will remain in limited quantities according to the rules proposed by the Ministry of the Interior in the previous election period, to individual building offices. So it can be predicted that this was an expectation from the parties to the current coalition that this would happen. Therefore, and allow me to derive this from the results of the elections, I also derive from the will of the citizens that this, which was declared in the last parliamentary term and was also in the various programmes of the two coalitions, is a logical step towards which our coalition or the current government resorted. I'd be quick to respond to Mr. Fiala. I am very simple to respond to perhaps very shortened - and I do not take the example, Mr Radim Fiala, through Mr President - of what anyone writes on Facebook. I usually try to look for contextual articles. I've never talked about automatic permits working on anything. The fiction of consent, which is already valid, applies to some statements, opinions, does not apply to environmental issues or EU protection. I also wanted to thank the Minister or former Minister Dostálová, the Chair of the Public Administration Committee, and I would be very happy to discuss with her further matters and parameters of the new bill. I've been asked what the change will be. The change brought will be that we will not be building a network of regional authorities at the moment, hiring - so if it were true that then we will make it one Special Building Office - hire or transfer some 7,000 people to say that this will no longer apply, and transfer it. We have a national recovery plan in mind. He's in a number of cases such a little danayan gift of the past government, because a lot of things that didn't get done fell there. We are negotiating with the European Commission because the Supreme Building Office is mentioned there as a milestone, but I believe that by legal regulation and the existence of legal approval we will be able to arrange this in order to achieve that objective, and we are looking for it - the aim of this project is to accelerate the construction process in the Czech Republic. Just about the environmental statement. This is not a superstamp, on the contrary it replaces about twenty other stamps, so to build a doghouse - she is always illustrated by some simple construction that it is the doghouse - she will not really need it. He'll need it for those buildings where you need two or more environmental authorities. On the contrary, I would like to ask for the support of the vote made by Marek Výborný, this is the shortened time limit for 30 days, especially because everyone here is talking about a time emergency. At this point, we are merely stopping the emergence of an undesirable structure of the authorities at regional level and the Supreme Building Office and, on the contrary, extending this may increase uncertainty. Our ambition at the turn of these months is to present these complex changes factually and then we can spend on committees, on gremias, on round tables, in cooperation with the opposition to the debate on whether and in what way it fills up the ideas of the things we have talked about here, and paradoxically agree with them, apart from the obviously different concepts of how the construction system in the Czech Republic is to be built for the approval of buildings. There our opinions differ, and given the outcome of the elections, our change in this change was predictable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u212	Thank you, Minister. So I've noted correctly that you're going to ask for a 30-day reduction, is that correct? [[Minister Bartoš: Mr. Excellent.]] Yeah, okay. We'll get back to that in the end. Madam rapporteur, are you interested in speaking? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u213	Now really in the role of the rapporteur, so let me really briefly sum up today's debate, which has really been very nutritious. I'm very sorry, because, of course, there was a lot going on here, and there was a lot going on here, so I wrote it down on points. So just please take it easy. What's important is the proposals have fallen. A motion for rejection fell, a motion for revision fell, a proposal for extension of the deadline of 75 days, a proposal for a reduction of 30 days and a proposal for an assignment fell if the proposals had not come to an end, as well as a constitutionally-legal committee. As far as the conclusions are concerned, again - I apologize once again for being this pointy. Members - you have been debating here and spoken very often - we postpone by one year during the housing crisis. Why? We're supposed to be speeding up. If the law is good for the state, why isn't it good for the citizen? We will have two building laws, but unfortunately, the amendment law is not settled. So it is not clear to 1. 7. 2023, where the regular builder goes. At the Special Building Office, it is clear, but a normal builder will go to get him removed from the agricultural soil fund, for conservation, environmental, water management and so on? The solution of black buildings is postponed. Systemic bias lasts. The laws of the Czech Republic, which are already in effect, are not respected. There is no clear compliance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. Retroactivity is openly recognized here. So, even in view of all these arguments that have fallen here and which, from my perspective, are very serious as rapporteurs, I, too, am inclined, if I can, at all, return to the recast or reject the proposal as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u214	I thank the rapporteur and, at this point, I would like to call my fellow Members from the lobby, because we are going to have a vote on the proposals that have been here. We had one motion to dismiss and one to complete. Since, under the Rules of Procedure, we should first vote on the proposal for completion, we will start with this point, and then we will vote on the proposal for rejection. I'm going to check you out at this point, and I'm going to ask you all to come forward. Yes, Prime Minister Benda has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u215	I am sorry, but I think it would be necessary to clarify this with the rapporteur, but the rapporteur has formulated her proposal by proposing a rejection if it is not accepted, so a return to completion. If this proposal has been put forward in this way, I think that the rejection must first be voted, then it must be a return to completion, because this is how the proposal was put forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u216	Yes, thank you. We take it, therefore, first we will vote on rejection and then, if it is rejected, or if it is negative, we will vote on completion. So I'm gonna ask everyone to sign in one more time. So we are voting at this moment. We are voting on a motion to dismiss. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 83 registered 145, for 65, against 79. Denied. At this point, we will therefore vote on the return of the proposal to the appellant. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 84 registered 145, for 64, against 81. Denied. [[16.10 hours]] We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see Mr Kolovratník here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u217	The last amendment was successfully discussed in a quality and professional manner in the Economic Committee, so I would like to make a counter-proposal for the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u218	Thank you. Is there another suggestion, please? It is not, so in that case we will vote on the counterproposal first. That means we are voting on whether, as a guarantee committee, the committee will be an economic committee. Do we all know what we're voting on? So I'm taking the vote. Who is in favour of being a guarantee committee for the economic committee? Who's against it? Voting 85, registered 145, for 22, against 66, rejected. We can therefore now vote on the guarantee committee being the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. So I'm putting it to a vote. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of this committee? Who's against it? Voting 86, registered 145, for 145, against no one, accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. So I ask, does anyone have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? I see the rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u219	If I may suggest, it's the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u220	I'm not sure, I think you should go to the counter, and you should say it there, formally correct. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u221	I'm so sorry. I propose a constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u222	Yes. And I see another proposal here, Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u223	Thank you. I admit, my earlier guarantee proposal was so refreshing. But seriously now, and please my colleagues from the coalition, we discussed a year ago both economically and precisely the Public Administration Committee, it is a matter that concerns the business of business, the economy, so please at least put your hand up for the economic committee here as an ordinary next discussion. Now I really mean it and please support the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-25-ps2021-016-04-001-012.u224	Thank you. Does anyone else have another suggestion? We therefore have two other proposals, and this is the Economic Committee and the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Let us step by step, first we shall vote on the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 87, registered 145, 63, anti 63, rejected. Next, we will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 88, registered 145, for 62, anti 52, result: rejected. At this point, we still have two proposals to deal with, and these are proposals to extend the deadline to 75 days and, on the contrary, a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. The first of these proposals was a proposal for 75 days, so we will vote on whether we agree to extend the deadline to 75 days. Do we all know what we're voting on? Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 89, registered 145, 64 against 78, rejected. And the next vote will be about shortening the deadline to 30 days. I hereby initiate the vote. Who's in favour of cutting the deadline to 30 days? Who's against it? Voting 90, 144 entered, for 80, against 62, result: accepted. Thank you, and this concludes this point. And allow me to inform you that I hereby interrupt the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Tuesday, April 5th, within 14 hours. And I would remind you that on Tuesday, March 29, at 10 o'clock, the 17th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin. Have a nice weekend, everybody.
