ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill on measures in the field of employment in the field of social security in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation /German press 171/ - shortened negotiations Before the hearing, we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. So I am now opening up a debate on this. I'm asking - isn't anyone logged in? If no one applies to the debate, then I am done with the debate. And I will. I'm going to call my colleagues and colleagues to the ballroom so that we can proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on measures in the field of employment and social security in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 171, in the accelerated negotiations'. We can therefore now proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. I have begun the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 6, 143 Members and Members were enrolled, for 133, against 0. I state that this motion for a resolution has been approved. [[11.50 hours]] I hereby open the Government's bill on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation, House Press 171, it is our point 2 today and is in a short hearing. This proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u2	Thank you. Good almost noon, Madam President, dear colleagues. I would also like to follow up on the previous point, which was mentioned here by Vice Prime Minister Rakušan, who dealt mainly with issues in the Ministry of the Interior. So I am presenting another part of the Lex Ukraine, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in a situation that is absolutely unprecedented, in a situation where, in 82 years since the end of World War II, this situation in Europe, and I dare say, even in the world to that extent, there has been an attack on Ukraine, an assault on civilians, women, children. Unfortunately, we see the bombing of health facilities, homes, housing estates and so on in live transmission, and we must also deal with the fact that we can help these people as humans. I would also like to say that we are in a situation where we are part of a war that affects Europe, because these men there are fighting and fighting to defend their country from an aggressor, the Putin army, and we need, like the Czech Republic and other countries, to be able to take care of their wives, their children, their parents, those who are fleeing from fear for their lives to safety and at least need to manage to cover the basic needs of life these days and in future days, as well as to have room for themselves, their children, their families to feed with dignity as far as possible. That is why we are putting forward this legal regulation, which is now genuinely responding to this situation and for those next weeks in several areas to the specific needs that are here. We are following up on the fact that if these people are granted temporary protection or a special visa for the purpose of patience, as mentioned here in the previous material, we will react in such cases so that we can make the labour market accessible to those people so that after they have gained shelter, housing in families, accommodation in facilities, accommodation in organizations, they can somehow stabilize for the first days or the first weeks, so that they can also look around and look for opportunities to work. Access to the labour market is set by treating these people at the moment when they will have the visa as citizens of the Czech Republic. They won't be in a situation where they have to walk and ask for some more special work permits. Firms, employers will not have to prove whether any citizens of the Czech Republic, any job applicants from the Czech Republic competed for that position. We're just gonna open up our labour market legally so that these people don't have to be under pressure from intermediaries, under pressure from people who need to keep them in some gray, illegal zone, under pressure from people who want to abuse them, even in areas like prostitution and the like. Here we are sending a clear message, and it is very important for people from Ukraine who are coming, that they simply have all the legal protection so that they can be legally on the market, under decent working conditions, so that they can be rewarded according to our legislation and that no one can abuse them and push them into any distress. It's very important. We try to communicate so that they know that we provide them with this protection. It's not just that they can have jobs and earnings, it's that they're completely protected under applicable legislation. This is part of this amendment of the law. I'm just gonna point out, we're gonna focus on doing targeted controls in the next few weeks. And here I am clearly saying and warning not to try some, I don't want to say people, because it has nothing to do with humanity, but simply not to try some organizations and similarly abuse the situations of these people so that they don't try to get them into some gray zone and into undignified working conditions. We'll focus on that. That's what I'm calling it. The second area where we respond in this legislation is the issue of children's groups. We are making a logical step here to allow children and mothers, because 80 percent of the arrivals are mothers - mostly fathers are not there, fathers are only there if the family had more than three children, then Ukraine allowed and allows these people to leave Ukraine, the others are called to the defence and call obligations - but we allow these children to enter children's groups and allow the founders of children's groups to have them there. That means we're adjusting the conditions that it doesn't have to be employees' kids or anything. They have access to the children's group and we can provide them with this care so that mothers and parents can also have room to work and their children are safely cared for. We are also doing an adjustment when we allow Ukrainian residents who will be in the territory of the Czech Republic and will have a visa so that they can possibly work in the children's groups. That's what's in there, too. I think this is very important, too, because we will need to strengthen personnel capacity, because we have also dealt with a lack of tutors, assistants and so on in this area. So that's this part. We are also discussing the issue of child protection, which means the necessary measures for the protection of minors of Ukrainian children by the institutions of social law protection of children, so that we may be able to replace certain public documents with, for example, an honest declaration by the Government. That's something you need to remember. That's what's in there, too. Then we also deal with the area of social services, because we already know that older people, especially older people, are situations that will require the support and care of social services in the Czech Republic. So we're dealing with it so that social service providers can take these people as their clients to take care of them. We also have an amendment that will be charged for some of the other Members, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who addresses the question of whether we should also examine the property and financial situation of those persons in the Czech Republic, whether they cannot take part in care, so that it is not automatically taken by anyone who comes and the provider says "I can accept you," so that it will be paid 100% by the State. We want to remember this, too. Of course, today we also have the tools to guarantee that quality care for citizens of the Czech Republic will be ensured. That means there are contracts that are concluded between clients and providers. These cannot be cancelled, cannot be denounced, cannot be done to allow providers here to try to prioritize now the citizens of Ukraine. That's impossible. For example, in the case of providers who are not a network today, the private ones, we will look for a way there, if possible through a grant title, if it turns out that there will be a greater need for those people, and we will not be sufficient with the existing capacities to possibly create some financial space there so that, if there is a lot of them, we can provide the care. We are really trying to approach this with a clear principle and an emphasis. It cannot be that a citizen of the Czech Republic is in a situation that he is not provided with the social service and is given priority to a citizen who comes from Ukraine. This is what we want to make clear here, too, and say. Then there is a very important area of the so much discussed humanitarian benefit in the last, say, week. I just want to appeal to one important thing. It's been a little and not quite explained enough, perhaps from my side this week. Even though the government has discussed it, that doesn't mean it can be paid off this week. Here we need to complete the legislative process, the President's signature, the exit in the Collection of Laws. In practice, I am counting on the fact that we could then start implementing this humanitarian benefit in practice from about 21 March, about Monday. That's what I think might be a real situation where we'd like to do the technical stuff by then, too. [[12.00 hours]] We care a lot about this and it is important for us in terms of our personnel capacities so that we can do it online - both the collection of applications and the payment. We're working on it. It is not easy to create these things in the order of days, including IT solutions and so on, but in order to be able to manage it, we simply have to figure it out, including those capacities where we communicate with these people, with those who want to deal with it in person, and where we can pay them off, because the existing premises of the labour offices are limitive and it is not possible to simply have a situation where there will be long queues, hundreds of people, and admit that it would deteriorate the care of the citizens of the Czech Republic. So we're trying to remember these things now and practically. The essence of this humanitarian benefit is that we are able to offer aid in the humanitarian benefit of CZK 5 000 per person per month to those citizens who are coming, refugees, war refugees from Ukraine. This also applies for the entire month of March. But it must have a visa, without which it is impossible to accommodate them, and we calculate that this institute would last a maximum of six months. We can, if necessary, adjust the amount of this humanitarian benefit by government regulation in the future. That's about that much to this area. I will mention the amendments that will also be read and justified here. The other amendment also concerns the area of children's groups, and there is another amendment to the solidarity contribution. I want to comment on him here. We originally had the solidarity contribution in the bill before we gave it to the government. Since the government's meeting also included a debate following the setting of the financial support for the regions, cities, municipalities and the sector, say guesthouses, hotels, which is also involved today, and there is also an intensive debate about the financing of this area, while there is also a rather extensive survey that monitors the approach of citizens of the Czech Republic, households from the point of view of willingness to accept people under their shelter and to offer them the help, the accommodation in families, so we decided to do so after the debate during yesterday and this morning, that we would therefore propose by amendment the possibility of authorising the government to prepare not only those conditions from the point of view of this solidarity contribution, but also from the point of view of, for example, the impact on the number of people in the household and the like. So this is what we'd like to do in the next few days. It is also very important to think about this well, so that no more market for poverty is created to prevent abuse of this levy, because it is not intended primarily that someone in the family provides shelter and accommodation for these refugees because they are paid for it, but it is intended that the person provides it primarily because he wants to help, and in this way we will want to look for a way to support him with the reimbursement of the costs that will arise from the point of view of heating, gas consumption, hot water and so on. I consider it very important that we support households in the Czech Republic. I think anyone who's done it to this day deserves a huge thank-you. I think that the vast majority of people have done this not because they are expecting something, but because they have decided to respond so clearly, but if the situation should be a longer period of time, maybe a few weeks or months, I know from my surroundings, and from people who have taken such steps that they simply won't be able to tighten it up. There's a lot of young families who have, say, a budget that's already tense today, or people who are already alone, widows, widowers, and they just say, we're gonna last it for a month or two, but we're gonna need help here. So this purpose is motivated by this considered aid that we could provide. It's certainly not motivated to pay off money here and create motivation for those people to put someone under their roof just because they get money from the state for it. No, the motivation is always supposed to be about helping because we're human. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. And I can now say that the Committee on Social Policy, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 171/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u4	Good noon, Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. As Madam Vice-President has already announced, yesterday evening the Social Policy Committee met to discuss - as was required when this press is proposed to discuss in a short procedure - an opinion on the House's press 171. I would like to begin by saying that I very much appreciate the fact that, as part of the committee yesterday, even though we may have been a little bit crooked about the state budget, there has been a very substantive debate on the Social Committee. There have been a number of suggestions from practice as well, as aid to refugees from Ukraine is taking place at this point, and I would like to thank both coalition and opposition Members for the fact that the debate has indeed been very substantive, very stimulating, and I appreciate that as committee chair. I would now like to introduce you to the resolution adopted by the Social Policy Committee of the 8th meeting of 10 March 2022 on the Government Bill on Employment and Social Security Measures in the context of the armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops. It's House Press 171. After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Dana Roučková, report by Mr Vít Kaňkovský and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to end its negotiations on this bill no later than 19 a.m. on 11 March 2022; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's draft law on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 171; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations. So much for the committee's resolution from last night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Please take your place at the news desk. And now we will decide whether we will have a general debate. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. I also see and hear a request for a check-out. I checked you all out. Please sign up with your cards again. We'll wait a little while for the number of applicants to settle. And I will just repeat that we will now decide whether to hold a general debate. The number of applicants has stabilized and we can therefore vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number seven, 102 Members and Members, for 101, against no one. The proposal was adopted and we decided to hold a general debate. [[12.10 hours]] I am now opening this general debate. And before I give the floor to the logged in, I'd like to load my apologies. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch apologizes between 13:30 and 19:00 for the sake of the hearing, Mr Kolář apologizes from 11:30 to 13:30 for the reasons of work, also Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologises today from 13:15 to the end of the day for the reasons of work and Mr Josef Kott between 12:00 and 18:00 for a doctor's visit. We have now an open general debate, Mrs Jana Pastuchová signed up and Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, perhaps not too long, to comment on this House press 171. I would like to thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for this proposal tabled, because I think that really the help of the people of the war is needed and needs to be done as quickly as possible. I also want to thank all the employees of the employment office from this place, because before this law becomes effective, the officials of the employment office are already working day and night and pay extra immediate aid benefits according to the regulations, so this will be the next benefit for these citizens who have come to us now. The Minister here introduced, I think, the bill very closely. So I'm not going to repeat what's going on. However, allow me, I have taken the liberty of introducing my amendment, which I have put into the system, which I have consulted with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in really great cooperation until evening hours. And I took the liberty of specifying paragraph 3, where it is actually that the children who will come now and be assigned to the children's groups, so actually those who include them there were just an honest statement that she was an aunt, an uncle. And if a woman goes to work in that children's group, all she has to do is make an honest statement to prove that she has an education that our legal... or which is listed. After consulting me, I suggested that of course we know that someone who packed his bags and ran away from the war didn't have time to pack up their education, and this has to do with vaccination licenses and that sort of thing. However, on the other hand, there are a lot of families and part of the family stayed, stayed in Ukraine. So I made an amendment so that if they can within six months, if they can provide us with their education within six months. If they can't, and they really don't have anybody there and their office was bombed, then it'll be enough to make an honest statement, with why they haven't actually been able to prove that education. So this is my amendment, with which it has agreed - thank you to the Minister, I hope to have a positive opinion. [[Jureček]] But I also thank the employees, or the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, who helped me a lot. So that's what paragraph 1 is (?), to the children's groups. Then I will read under the number that I have given this amendment. Humanitarian dose. I don't think there's anything to talk about. It's the right thing to do. I just want to point out who doesn't pay that much attention to it, that really refugees with visa status can still go to the employment office today, and they can get extra immediate help right away. If this law comes into force and they've already been given this month, I don't know, 2,500 per person, for children it's less, so by the entry into force of this law they can go for the next 5,000 then another five months if they prove that they don't have income or that they're really in bad shape. So there's really nothing to talk about. All I asked yesterday about the Committee on Social Policy was whether for six months it would still be possible to apply for the benefits of material distress at the same time, and I was told that for these six months, not until after that, if this six-month assistance ends, they will, if they are ill, be included in the normal system of doses of material distress in our Republic, as they apply. So that's great. Next thing you know, there's social services. And I will comment shortly afterwards only on ours, I think on our opinion on the individual amendments for the YES movement. One thing I won't forgive myself for, and I have to tell her. Minister Rakušan here said one thing in the last debate, and I was quite touched. That everyone who comes to us now wants to sleep and have peace. And I fully agree with that. I don't want to be a populist, but my husband and I signed up for the crisis center, and three days ago, a Ukrainian family was brought to our cottage. So I got it firsthand. It's the people from Odessa who were - mommy, grandma, 10-year-old girl - who were in Odessa. A little girl the night before, she's some athlete climbing rocks in the halls. And my mom... I wasn't there yet, my husband's in charge, she showed him a picture of the girl on the wall somewhere in the lobby, she crawled up there, and the next day they woke up to war. They were in the shelter for eight days. It was horrible. They brought them here to the Ústí Region, where we heard from the line, and the firemen brought them to our cottage. And really, like, I think they've gone to bed and slept until... I don't know, I haven't had the chance to see them yet because I'm here. However, I am deeply offended by the fact that Minister Rakušan said that people want to sleep. That's why I said my experience. And yesterday in the media we were able to record - I only have it from the media - that the South Moravian Region, which accommodated refugees in hotels and guesthouses, will now move these refugees to gymnasiums or some halls, because CZK 180, or 90 for children, is not enough for them accommodation for the guesthouses and hotels. So I would ask too much, too much to ask the government to do this really quickly so we can really, really, really let them sleep, get some rest, and not have to move back from the hotel and from the guesthouse to the gym. Although I think they really like to be behind the roof of their heads right now and for not having bombs flying around their heads. But I'd really like to say that since we've already put them there, we're gonna leave them there and provide the cities, the municipalities with the means not to have to move to the gyms. And now I will briefly comment on amendments that I did not know, because yesterday on the Social Committee - mine was not enough to prepare it legislatively to be correct, so I read it into the system last night. It's about the children's groups and the six-month confirmation if they can present it to us. Another amendment that is made under Mr Kaňkovský's colleague, through you, is that children's groups may be in the system. And I'm sure we don't have a problem with that. I'm really glad that the children's groups are gonna be formed, and I think they're gonna need a lot, so we don't have a problem with that. [[12.20 hours]] The second law concerns social services, which extends § 5 para. 1 on social services. [[Proposal]] I think there was one word in the original proposal in this paragraph that it would be free. That came out, and you actually made an amendment, as you said, that social services, if it was a client who didn't have the money, you would verify it, so the state would pay for it. I am very glad that the Minister here has explained to us - I have also asked the translator - that there is "all social services" there. All of them, that means residential, field, actually private. I asked, and I was afraid that - we are asking, because I think the laws are coming up quickly, and maybe we didn't respond to some in the pandemic, or there were mistakes that you warned us about, so I asked, and I was afraid that the residential services of a private nature would suddenly be flooded with clients from Ukraine, with the state paying them all, with our clients waiting for social services for a really long time. The Minister has assured us that there will be checks. Of course, if it's going to cost, the providers will have to ask for it, for the money, so I believe the check will be there. So we don't have a problem with that either, so I'm sure we'll support it. But what we have a problem with, and I'm saying that frankly, and I think you would have behaved exactly the same way in our opposition benches, is the solidarity contribution to the household. I'm sure we support him, but you can't ask us to give the government a blank check to decide how much money it's going to be, how long it's going to be, what the maximum amount is going to be. We'd support it if you had it there. And it came this morning, so she wasn't there... I know that you didn't agree with the government, the individual ministries, it is widely known, I know that it must be really legislatively perfect in order not to abuse this money, but you cannot ask the opposition to raise our hand for something where it is not clear to define how much money it is, how much money it is, or for how many people it is maximum, because in the original version it was that it would be CZK 1,000 per person, a maximum of 5,000, it was one proposal, with it being in a calendar month, but it was written that it would be in 16 consecutive days. Then it was erased because there was no match. So you can't be angry, and I appeal for our YES club that we don't have a problem, we don't have a problem, and we'd like to raise our hand for this solidarity contribution because I really appreciate everyone who provides the accommodation, and not everyone needs to be in my position as an MP who doesn't have a problem with their finances, but there are people who offer their accommodation, but those energy, water and everything just have to pay. I'm glad there's gonna be something like this, but you can't ask us to raise our hand for something where it's not really... And we're giving you a vote that you can decide what you want. We raise our hand when there is an amount, a number of days, a maximum amount, but as opposition Members, we cannot raise our hand for this amendment, because there is absolutely nothing concrete to lean on. I guess that's it for me. I've got to end up like this. I believe in coincidences, and that's what happened. I went from Neruda Street to the House, and I preceded a young daddy with a little boy, he could be about four years old. When I preceded them, the dad -- they were in some kind of conversation, he was pointing at some statues -- and I was walking through when Dad asked, "Do you know what luck is?" And the little boy mumbled something. And that daddy said, "I'll tell you what happiness is." Lucky for you, I have you, and you have me. So I'd like to wish all Ukrainian families that they could say this to each other one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, Madame. Mr Aleš Juchelka is now joining the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u8	Thank you very much. I, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, would like to begin by thanking you very much, as Mr Kaňkovský has already indicated, by your means, that we really had a very substantive debate yesterday, we asked questions, we received some answers, and I thank you very much to the officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs who have prepared this material in the order I would really say a few days. I have some follow-up questions, of course. From the point of view of social services, every war fugitive will be able, and that is correct, to draw all the services that concern him, if, I don't know, he's immobile, has a handicapped child, seniors and so on. So my question is, how is some compensation being prepared just for social service providers, which means for municipalities, regions, for over-regional social service providers, whether it will be in the form of some subsidy directly to those providers, or whether they will write some subsidy title on the MPSV and each of those providers will apply for the funds themselves. From a social security point of view, we know that at this point, if calculated, it's about one billion in the budget for 200,000 war refugees. The minister said here how the reporters of the employment offices are prepared and how they communicate with banks, for example, so that they can pay the humanitarian contribution directly to the account and they don't have to queue there and pay it in cash. I want to thank you so much for thinking about them. Just please, and I said so yesterday on the Social Policy Committee, too, to think about the financial rewards and appreciation of those officials who are actually on the top of the list of all civil servants, to think about them also from the point of view of this excessive work, which they have already received due to increased energy prices. We in Ostrava are the final - and in Bohumín we also - destination, when trains with war refugees arrived, and the experience is really such that they get out what they want first, is to eat, drink, take some things they couldn't take with them, within the humanitarian aid that is in and around those stations, then they go to those accommodation facilities that the state supports 180 or 90 crowns for the child, stay there for a few days, relax, and then, on the basis of their other contacts, travel further, such as large cities like Prague or Brno, or even further to Western Europe, where they have some relationships and contacts and family members. I am only interested in whether the Ministry, but this may be a question for the Minister of the Interior, preparing an app in Ukrainian, where all the information would simply be combined from the point of view of the very authorities, of what the war refugees are entitled to, so that everything could be traceable de facto online in their native language. If something like this is being prepared, because it would really make it easier for all those organizations that help directly in the first line from the point of view of communication, because sometimes pamphlets don't work, and maybe it's also a matter for the Regional Association to put together some negotiations and help in this particular way. This empowering provision, which will actually allow the government to use the government's regulation to make the contribution to the solidarity household, I think you're already thinking of some amount, if you're able to tell us what it would be, because, of course, in the last three days, in the bill, we've seen the thousand grand crown at the apartment first, then the person at the maximum number of five. I also wonder where the sum of the 180 crowns or 90 crowns came from, the money, and whether we are considering an increase now that we know what is going on in the South Moravian Region, and whether they are also thinking about the very municipalities and municipalities that - even private people with more housing - accommodate these war refugees. [[12.30 hours]] We have 90 apartments prepared in Ostrava according to the words of our representatives. The largest owner of apartments in the Moravian-Silesian Region has another 400 flats. They need to be entertained. At this point, I'm just wondering how it's going to be financially compensated, or whether there's a system going to be, or if it's still too early. I don't know myself, but in the future, according to the government, we're supposed to face up to half a million war refugees that we have to accommodate somewhere, and we have to do something about it from the point of view of education, health, not just of course, social. So these are de facto my questions. Of course, we, as opposition, support all steps taken by the government. My colleague Jana Pastuchová has already commented on the contribution to solidarity households. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual point, Mrs Helena Válková came forward. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, a very brief point of fact. I would recommend using it if it has not already happened, precisely in order to ensure a whole complex of social issues, a very well-functioning Government Committee on Children's Rights, which you have at your disposal, which worked very well in dealing with the pandemic situation. We made this kid's ten. I know 50 percent of the people coming from Ukraine are children. It is led by the Chairman of the Klára Šimáčková Laurenčíková Committee, which is very actional. I think she could be very helpful in this area, because the complex of things that you're going to be dealing with is not just about social benefits, but also about compensation for the damage that happened in connection with the escape, the escape, the separation from one parent. Second thing. I also recommend that we focus in this context - of course this is not directly contained in the proposal, we deliberately did not prepare any amendment - for older people, seniors. There is again the Government Committee on the Rights of Older People, who works very well under the guidance of Dr. Bílková from the Faculty of Law of the UK, who could also help you. I think that these people - even if they are in a significantly smaller number, but they are in a significantly worse situation in terms of the future - who are coming to us, too, we must not forget. So I just wanted to remind you and say that we will support - even if I have exceeded the time, please allow me to finish this sentence - a colleague of Mrs Pastuchová, who I am sure I thank not only for the YES movement, because this example gives, I think, more clearly than we here by approving the legal texts specifically demonstrate our support for refugees from Ukraine. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u11	Thank you, too. Now I'm asking if anyone else is still applying. Yes, Minister, please. Before I give you my word, I'll read more apologies. Andrej Babiš apologizes for the rest of the day for business reasons. Next, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová between 13.20 and 23.59, by the end of the day, for reasons of the family. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u12	Thank you. I will try to respond to the things that have been said here in this debate. I'll start with the personnel, capacity issue, from the point of view of the employment authorities. We had a two-and-a-half-hour meeting here this morning with the participation of key partners from employers, trade unions, NGOs and representatives of the employment office. Honestly, I'm saying that at this point, we're beyond the potential. In addition to this agenda, we are dealing with energy. We have more than 30,000 new energy demands, more and more. We have people in the field who, by mid-March, have to bypass the 6,000 people who are in the DPI as gas customers. By April 14, we may have to bypass less than 20,000 of those who are in the DPI as well as electricity customers. We're still dealing with this agenda, let's just say, beyond normal agendas. This is what comes into this, which we also have to deal with. We're asking for new personnel capacities today. Some of us are dealing with the transfer of workers within our department. I've already announced to the government that I'm going to be begging my resorcist colleagues to provide us with some personnel capacity. I honestly can't tell you for how long. If I need them for a month, for two. The key will be how many people we can get into the online environment. So, of course, we're preparing those forms with Ukrainian. How many of these people are gonna be able to actually file this application online, get the bill, get the paycheck, we don't know. We're trying to appeal tonight so that the account really gets the most out of them, because even after that, if they go to work, it's gonna be easier for the employer. Thank you for your huge support from the banking sector, which also comes and feels proactively that it needs to be involved. Some have already announced that they're gonna set up the account for free, that they're gonna put some basic input benefit into it. That's helping us so much right now. So I'm counting on the personnel capacity to be replenished. We're looking for these people today, in a form externally, even for deals. I promised and told the Director of the Labor Office that all those people at the employment offices who were doing these exposed things and those agendas I listed would be on their way to finding some extraordinary reward for them in April in connection with these agendas. I'm aware of that. I also said that in January when I was dealing with representatives of the Labor Office. So I really thank these people. I forgot to say something. On those 24/7 campuses, these people, that's another thing. But I don't want to say that it's just uptight in our department. I also see colleagues from the interior who are on the edge of the possibility, OAMP workers from the foreign police, I see that in firefighters, people out of control and so on. Everyone's doing their best right now, really. About the other questions, about the social services. We're counting on that we should, and we're going to have to respond with a high probability with respect to the numbers of people, then a special grant title that's really going to have the conditions that guarantee that the providers don't do any of the scams, that they're going to take advantage of those clients from Ukraine. I don't think most providers think that way either. But we need to settle those terms. So we're counting on taking that step. We are preparing for this with colleagues from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in cooperation with our social partners, providers, whether from the public sector or outside. How much it's going to be, how much money it's going to be, I'm not going to be able to answer that at this point. I don't know what the situation will be in two weeks. We're trying to monitor people who are, let's just say, older people today, so we know what condition they're in. We're trying to monitor the people who are coming today. Clearly, these are people who will need some form of assistance, not only in the area of residential or field social services, but also psychological support, and so on. We also want to allocate capacity in cooperation with the non-governmental sector for this to be possible. Of course, what has also been said here is also the question of the solidarity contribution. I was, and it was in the material that he originally proposed a basic amount of CZK 1,000 and we would limit it to five people who could be in the household at the most. That was the original design that was there. At this point, I have also discussed this with representatives of the non-governmental sector that we would have done an evaluation during the weekend of the big survey that is now underway. We've already got some partials out of it. It's Daniel prokop's team. So I'm also in contact with them to reflect this in some way. So I can't say any amount today. I said what was in the original proposal. I say for myself that it just makes a great deal of sense to support it in different forms, not only in financial terms, to make it accommodation in those families, because there is a prerequisite for a higher rate of speedy reduction of the language barrier, the assumption that these people will be able to adapt very quickly, and so on. So that is why I think it should also be of interest to the state to support those citizens in this determination. That is why I have decided to take this step in the form of an amendment. I understand your, say, critical material remarks about why you can't support it. I understand. I'm just trying to explain here that the will to do this to help is here to send the signal quite soon. As for the issue of regions and towns and municipalities in terms of ordering the accommodation now. In general, I've been trying to say in the last two days: look, we've said some amount. I'm sure we'll have next week, the deadline's already set, the government's negotiations with the Regional Association. But let's also take it that 180 kroner is some minimum amount per person per night. To do that, the person will have the 5,000 crowns that you should cover, say, the cost of food. [[12.40 hours]] I also assume that when everyone here is solidly across the whole republic, including the regions, towns and villages, they are posting Ukrainian flags, so that they too will be able to help financially overcome this situation for at least a short period of time. Because we also expect, in the order of days, that we should also have information from Europe, the European Commission, how much they may also be able to allocate funds to us, not just the Czech Republic, but to those other countries such as Poland, Slovakia and others, to help cope with this situation from the point of view of these costs. And then we're able to react with regard to how many of these people are going to be and what the situation will be in Ukraine in terms of those months, like April, May and so on, how we can handle it. So much to list my answers to what I can give at this point. I'm sorry that I'm not specific about some things, because at this point, we don't have the exact final idea yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, Minister, and now President Alena Schillerová has signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, thank you for explaining this now, I am glad I listened to him because I can respond immediately. So I think it is clear from the words of my colleagues from the government benches behind the YES movement that we will support this proposal. There's no doubt about it. We have never considered anything other than supporting him, after, of course, the debate that was factual and constructive on the committee. I spoke to Mrs Pastuchová yesterday for the club of the YES movement. So I'd say first, we'll back it up. And I read in monitoring this morning that you said somewhere that people are writing to you that the $5,000 is too much. Well, they don't write it to me, I have to say, thank God they don't write it to me, and we certainly wouldn't live in that kind of mood. I say this openly for our club because we simply support this policy and we have to do it, it is a question of the act of humanity, and that does not change anything. Just a few notes, and please don't take them any less from me, I'll really be very helpful. I just want to say I understand. I also said that in the last law when Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Interior Minister Austrian spoke and talked about how he needed to strengthen capacity and so on. And you won't get any nasty words from me like "we told you so" or just kicking for increasing the number of officials. You won't, because we're over it, and we know what it took, the two years of the covid crisis. The crisis was horrible, and this one is no less. So I know exactly what you're going through. We lived through it, the weekends from morning to night. I'm not complaining at all. I perceive my work, and I have always perceived it, and I believe that you too, as a public service, so there is no complaint, no plea for any regrets, no recognition, no such thing. But I want to tell you that I understand. That means you're going to have to increase your capacity. I'm saying again - and again, don't think of it as nasty - those people at the employment offices actually got a pay rise of zero, you know, with an inflation of 11 percent, they're actually going to go down. And since I come from the public sector, I know it's plus minus everywhere the same, they're hearts, so they're gonna do the job anyway, even though they're gonna go down really hard with wages. It's good if you give them some rewards, of course, that'll be good, but it's just the nine, and you're talking about firefighters, cops, they're all gonna get involved in the way they're involved in our crisis. Even then, the labor authorities fell on their mouths because Antivirus and process - of course, the Czech Social Security Administration and other authorities, which I now do not want to see you here, the Labour Minister, so I talk about them, but, of course, police officers, firefighters, Financial Administration, which processed a compensatory bonus, eventually we talked about him many times when you were in opposition. And those people just deserve it. For one thing, you're going to have a difficult capacity there, and we had the debates with Jana Maláčová on a regular basis, and yesterday, he said to me by the sitting Member: you were always squabbling. We had this whole social services firefight, I don't want to deal with that right now. But you know what? When I look back on it today, yes, they did, because of course she wanted as much money for her resort as possible and I defended them again, so we're like squabbling, but tonight I have to say in retrospect that she fought for the resort. The way I see it today is that she fought back. Sometimes she won less, sometimes she won more, I had to compromise too, but she just fought. So just my advice: you need to fight for the resort, you need to fight. So that's just my advice. Now, from the other side, to respond to what we said yesterday, and that's no big deal. Now, about what I want to say first of all. I have a big problem - and my colleague, Mrs Pastuchová, has already said this, and we have, of course, talked about it, but she has it more under her skin. We have a big problem with Mr Kaňkovský's amendment, the blank cheque. We don't have a problem with making a donation, God forbid. It has to be provided, and I even tried to bring you in some way - we were discussing it then, and please don't take my word for it, but we had a whole series of huge discussions with unions, with chambers, with representatives of different segments of the economy, and maybe we were discussing, here I'm giving such a suggestion, COVID - Accommodation, where we just agreed on a contribution at the time, because the situation is not much different. Unfortunately, we closed because of the covid, not us, covid, and we closed and did not allow the operation of these accommodation capacities. You need to use them, or all of us, but you're in government now, for refugees, so the situation isn't very different, and there's a clue to find. And we finally made a compromise on the contribution. So I'm just giving you these instructions. And we're ready to cooperate. 'Cause, you know, let's really put down the political fights. For example, I regret that when this amendment, I checked with my colleague Pastuchová, when this amendment, which I actually - I take it that you have not agreed so far, which you must agree, you must agree, here is simply not a step backwards and you should have agreed. I would act as if the Pope were elected, just as long as we had a deal. And that's how we did it. You know how many times we had a fight, when we broke up for class, and then the Prime Minister called us up again, we fought there, just sometimes it was really crazy, but you have to make a deal. And I don't think it's good, this form of authorization isn't good. We don't actually know any parameters there, we don't know anything. And that's why Jana Pastuchová said we had a problem with that. I know they don't take money from a constitutional point of view, but they do, I'm sure that's a good thing, but it should be there... Remember, if you remember, we've approved many times here, and you and I specifically had a few debates about it, and now it's good, I don't blame you for the compensation bonus. And I used to come here all the time with a new and new compensation bonus, guessing whether a 500 or so or not, and then we said, well, I'm not just gonna come here over and over again. So we put in a government order, eventually the Chamber of Deputies and you supported it, we gave it an opportunity to extend the government regulation and we did it, our government, actually a compensation period always by a month. But there were clear lines. There were conditions and there was an amount. We couldn't change that as a government. We could only extend it, and even that was on the verge of constitutionality, but, of course, as people say, he's not a prosecutor, he's not a judge. Who would attack this when we were actually helping people? So I just think that you guys should have put those boundaries in there, and if what's happening in the media right now is true, then I'm pretty shocked if you'd respond to it, I'd be grateful. What our South Moravian captain and your colleague Mr. Grolich actually said is that they're running out of money to move them to the gym. No way! So just get together and make a deal. We actually offer the documentation from COVID - Accommodation. Try to meet with the representatives, we've always dealt with the representatives who cover - now I dropped the union, of course trade and tourism, but then there's another one under where they cover the restaurants, i.e. restaurants - accommodation capacities, hotels, sorry, hotels. We've just dealt with a whole bunch of them, and we've always found that compromise. Of course, their idea was just big sometimes, so we had to do something about it, but we found a compromise in the end so that they somehow survived and were able to function and we were able to finance it at the price of the deficit you're blaming us for. But don't take this the wrong way again, I think youRakušan one of those members of the government who's already said it openly, unless I'm wrong that he's just gonna have to be a novel, he's gonna have to be. [[to Minister Jureček]] And believe me, we'll be as constructive as possible on this matter as possible. [[12.50 hours]] I'm offering now - we don't like what you're loading here. I know you say it, you have the power. It's not good. It's not good, I'm a little sorry that you guys haven't talked to us about it, it's a shame, and I'm openly offering again, take advantage of our know-how, we've got a lot of experience, and even if you're shooting us from the left side of the right, let's just put it aside now, I don't take it personally, I couldn't be in politics, you probably can't, either, so let's just put it aside and try to use it. We, as well as my colleagues, Klára not here today, the former Minister for Regional Development, Dostálová also spent hours with these very representatives when we put it together, but please, I am saying this mainly so that you can understand why we cannot support this amendment, but we ask you to do this quickly and offer cooperation, and we are genuinely offering cooperation. And if you'd like to comment on the situation, about the regions, when Governor Grolich said it in that sense, I just got it from the media that they're running out of money and they're not gonna have it, so when do you see it solved and when do you see the way out? And I'm saying again, I know what I'm talking about, so it's not some stale opposition work from me at all costs, but from knowledge and experience like this, because the problems have a different reason, but the same solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, Madam President. And now the rapporteur, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, has signed up for the debate. Please. Yes, they have agreed with the Minister that the Minister will now speak in the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u16	Thank you. I'll respond, even if I've reacted to that part of it before. I appealed when I spoke to Grolich, not only the Governor, but others, for the last three or four days, so I said, look, we're in a situation where we're about two weeks away from the outbreak of war, we're trying to take those steps as far as we can. I have also appealed to local politicians, who also look to me a lot, representatives of cities and municipalities, mayors, mayors. I say, look, we've given some basic amount to it, those people get 5,000 crowns to do it, I think most of them will. Roughly 40,000 asked for an extraordinary mop, about 2.5 thousand crowns are already received by these people on the first 14 days of March, with the fact that when the sum of 180 crowns plus about 160 crowns is added, theoretically, if I take it on average, I will share the 5,000 crowns for those 30 days per meal, for the costs of food, it is already some amount for those providers, for those who have hotels and guesthouses that can be worked with, if they are willing to supplement the regions, cities, municipalities. I think there's a need for them, at least for a few weeks now, like the end of March, to share that. We are also looking for ways within Europe to set rules and say what we can expect in the cost conversion for example for accommodation or for some other things that we will deal with, such as language courses and so on. This will also be the cost that everyone else will have to deal with, what we can expect, and then set out some framework that guarantees Europe, what we guarantee at national level, and then how much it may be for the involvement of cities and municipalities. But we can't now in the operation we're in, say and expect everything to be paid to the spot by the state for the prices that - somebody might say 600-700 kroner per night. It's not reality. The numbers we're going to talk about and talk about today aren't real. So I call for our colleagues from the whole level of regional and municipal policy to simply perceive this. We will try to find ways to really define it in some way, even with the long-term perspective, not just the perspective of a few, two or three weeks, because it will probably not be such a simple situation. We have a meeting next week with representatives of the Regional Association, with all the authorities, so I'm sure there'll be a big discussion about it. I believe that they, the authorities, and the representatives of towns and villages, will approach this with some reason, so we appeal to it and try to communicate it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u17	Thank you, Minister, and now I ask the rapporteur? The rapporteur is interested in speaking. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u18	Once again, have a nice afternoon this time. I would still like to introduce two of the proposed amendments, which we have prepared together with other colleagues, to the general debate. I want to say that we have also discussed some of these matters with opposition representatives, and I can once again say that I appreciate the fact that after yesterday's committee, or even before yesterday's committee, some of the things that still needed to be adjusted in this prepared Houses of the Press 171 - and let us try to realize that it was really going to be in the order of days and hours, said by colleague Juchelka here, I appreciate that he reflects this. And we all realize that while at the beginning of last week we were talking about 50,000 refugees from Ukraine, in the middle of last week we already knew that it might be 150,000, today we are talking about the pressure that can be up to 500,000, and we are also talking about the fact that the ceiling for the Czech Republic now being prepared is somewhere around 250,000 refugees. That means, let's take the context in the sense that actually predicting the final amounts now, how much these individual steps are going to cost us, is incredibly difficult. I thank President Schillerová for the discussion. We are actually taking these topics, and I personally also have some reactions from the terrain from local politicians and regional politicians, and I am glad that the Minister has said that the discussions with the regions and those accommodation service providers are not ending, which will actually continue, and of course they will be looking for ways to set it up so that, on the one hand, we can make the most of it, and we can use that capacity as much as possible, and on the other hand, to prevent any form of abuse, both regarding the accommodation capacities and the humanitarian contribution and the contribution to the solidarity household. I will now introduce two of these amendments. The first amendment is tabled with Mr Vice Prime Minister and fellow Member Marian Jurečka, colleague Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková, colleague Jílková, colleague Richterová and colleague Bačíková, and concerns children's groups. A colleague Jana Pastuchová has also mentioned this. It concerns the fact that at the moment we know that 55 percent of the Ukrajinec are coming from that group, of course part of the children are in the smallest age group, and the current capacity of our pre-school facilities is already full enough. This means that we will need to stimulate the opening of new children's groups, and we need to give these children's groups not only status, but we also need to give them a way of financing. In the current legislation, there is a condition that emerging children's groups must request by 31 January of each calendar year to have a chance of achieving a contribution. With this amendment, we temporarily loosen the rules so that if new capacities are created for children's groups, they can get into the system and get to finance. So, of course, it's bound to the scope of this law, it's not a permanent measure, but if we want to be able to provide pre-school care for those Ukrainian families, then we need to support those children's groups. The second amendment is tabled again with colleagues Marian Jurečka, Jana Bačíková, Olga Richterová and Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková, which concerns the provision of social services. This has already been discussed here in the general debate, the Minister mentioned it in his introductory words. We want to offer disabled and elderly people who come from Ukraine the possibility of social services as they will need them, but at the same time we must get them back into the system and there must not be an inequality between those coming and Czech citizens. We have to take care of both groups, and that is what the amendment is about. I am glad that the Minister also mentioned here that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and other institutions will be controlled on how the very idea and the need to ensure equality will be fulfilled, which means that the care of Czech citizens will not be compromised, and we will provide them with the necessary social services to the utmost need for the Ukrainian arrivals. The third amendment will then be presented by the Minister and fellow Member Jurečka, who concerns so much discussed contribution to the solidarity household. I'm happy for the debate that's been going on here, because it's been bothering us all. I would like, as my colleagues have said, to greatly appreciate all families and all individuals who, at the expense of their own comfort, are willing to accept the Ukrainian family or even incomplete families, because they are often incomplete families, to their premises. It's not easy. I also want to thank everyone who helps them do so, all non-profit organizations, regions, municipalities. But we really need to think about the fact that maybe last week, many thought it would be for a week, maybe it would be for 14 days. Unfortunately, today we all see that the situation is likely to have a much longer duration. And it is the role of the state to support those families not only morally, not just by saying it here on a microphone, but by being kind to them. [[13.00 hours]] I understand the opposition that, as it is proposed, it would be possible through the government's order that it may be a sort of bingo check, but we are in an extraordinary situation. And even in the current legal order, we have some parallels that are not tied to the pandemic crisis or the refugee crisis, where the government, by its regulation, sets some parameters for, for example, one calendar year. That means there's no institute where we give the government some clumsy opportunities to deal with the state budget. So I'd like to ask for a certain degree of helpfulness here. I understand that the opposition will very much keep an eye on whether the parameters set for helping those families are appropriate, but on the other hand, believe that none of the government or government coalition has any interest in compromising the care of Czech citizens, but that the real motive is to stimulate those families, to support them not only morally but also factually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u19	Thank you, rapporteur. And now, with Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u20	Thank you very much. I'm sure we'll be able to control our eyesight, but every time we talk about some laws that are in a legislative emergency, I remember that when it came to the covido period, those Members were touching as much as we are now in different areas and topics, and those gesychic ministers were always ready to answer that question. For example, I understand that Minister Bartoš of the MMR should deal with the very accommodation facilities and he should tell us how far they are de facto and why 180 crowns are short and why half is short. I might also expect it to happen, but perhaps the House's leadership will confirm it, but I call on the House's leadership to offer its accommodation facilities in Harrachov and Lipnice for refugees. And if that's the case, then, of course, it's like good news. And then you can see for yourself whether, right here in this traffic, the amounts are adequate for the one adult, and for that one child, even with the full pension, with the food, or on the other hand, they aren't. Because I think that, on the contrary, you should be a government that actually decides, comes up with some amount, we'll talk about it. But at this point, writing a really bianco check is, in my opinion, very dangerous, and as the ex-minister of finance said, constitutionally unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and then Mrs Lesenská will now speak with the facts. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Now Mrs. Lesenská or me? He'll come after me. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to follow up on what was said here and confirm that the two residence facilities of the Ministry of the Interior based on the President of the House, and because I was supposed to go to Harrachov on Saturday, the first refugees from Ukraine will be accommodated on the premises in Harrachov tomorrow, because the Liberec Region has a big problem, has no accommodation capacity, so Harrachov will be available first, and then, when there are no accommodation capacities, then Lipnice. It's just to set things straight. And my question to the Minister about the accommodation capacities and what you are now discussing with the Association of Regions and the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I know there's already some document to comment on, which is being drawn up, and I have to say, it really resonates quite from the regions, what the financial amount will be for the accommodation. The proposal contains 180 crowns and 100 crowns for children under the age of ten. But you said here that next week you'll have a meeting with the chieftains. I think it should be a long time ago. And I wanted to ask you, when do you expect to approve of this with the government, if you'd be so kind as to answer that because they ask me a lot of questions, and I have a lot of questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u23	Thank you, too, Madam Vice-President. And now she will speak with the de facto Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u24	Thank you. My esteemed colleagues, after yesterday's committee meeting, I was surprised that we were actually discussing the solidarity contribution today because something must have changed during the night. It's okay. But I wanted to give the minister some more wrinkles, because gradually solving the staffing of social services will probably be a problem for him too. So you didn't mention the personnel you mentioned, the social services, so I'm just reminding you. And I'd like to ask you, you mentioned the employment office. The Labor Office is an amazing institution, but it's not just some people who work intensively at the Labor Office at the moment, but everyone else, they're all involved in the office. So if you could remember, within the framework of wage and other pay options, all of them, not just some of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u25	Thank you, too, Madame. And now I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate? I don't see anyone. I am therefore ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u26	Thank you. I think we're all going to have a lot of wrinkles, not just me and my resorcist colleagues, but also here colleagues in the House, because there will be a lot of things that we will have to deal with later in operational terms. Let's see how this situation plays out, we just can't predict it at all today. We wish that it would stop, that these people could come home as quickly as possible, but let's face it, experience from similar situations in the world and in Europe shows that if these people come to another country, if they're really there for a long time, then the percentage of those who are coming back falls. It's a direct point of view, the longer those people are in that country at the moment when the kids get into the schools and so on, so with the longer time, the percentage of those who return. So let's wish that for the future of Ukraine, too, it's important that these people come back so that Ukraine doesn't lose this whole generation that went away at this point, because it's important to them too. Sometimes I hear someone say, "Maybe it'll help us in the labour market, maybe it'll help us elsewhere. I don't look at it with this optics at all, and I don't want to look at it. I want to see the optics that we have to help these people for the time necessary. If they are here, let us give them the opportunity to feed themselves so that their children do not lose too much time in the field of education, but we do so for these reasons. We're not doing this for any other reason. That's not how we're supposed to treat it. And the questions that still fell here. I think the association and the term of the meeting are called by the Prime Minister in agreement with the President of the Association of the Regions. I think we all perceive that the urgency and the search for solutions is growing. Prime Minister, if I'm not mistaken, I think he's still in Paris. The meeting was probably long, nightly, maybe until morning. I don't know exactly what happened right now. We'll talk about it. Let's see if we can make an earlier date. It's just that things are really, really lively and up-to-date right now. And I will also try to solve the issue of conditions and the level of solidarity contribution, as well as in relation to those regions and municipalities, in relation to those providers from among the companies that have pensions, hotels. And then there's the families. And then there's another sector, and that's what we need, let's say, different types of civic associations that provide this accommodation as well. We mustn't forget them either. I see it in my neighborhood. The municipalities have put firehouses at their disposal. Various associations have made their housing capacity available or, in some cases, non-residential, so they must not be forgotten. So we're going to want to deal with this as soon as possible, because we're going to see with respect to the development and the pressure on the tides of war refugees that we're going to need really every capacity. And we're in a situation where the capacities aren't going to be enough for us very quickly and we're really going to be dealing with purely humanitarian accommodation, just that those people are going to be in those large-capacity areas, but they're going to be safe there, they're going to have heat, they're going to have basic needs. It will probably come to that, too, because the wave and the tide are as big as it is, and unfortunately the fighting in Ukraine has not stopped yet. So we're going to have to deal with this in some way step by step with regard to the development of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u27	Thank you, Minister. And now, with priority rights, the chairman of the club ANO, Mrs. Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u28	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Only very briefly. Sure, maybe, and you're probably working on it, even resorts have a lot of training facilities, recreational facilities, everything's needed. Everything needs to be used, but I'm sure that's why I didn't sign up. I have one more thing. I know you haven't responded to the question by the Vice-President of the House of Mračková Vildumetzová, however, by opening the topic here and somehow resonating here, so now I have the information, I have it here in front of me, the information from the South Moravian Region, because it is, of course, my native region, from the South Moravian Region went to the representatives of the municipalities, I will read the point from the material, just one point. Accommodation - of course meant for refugees - will be covered by the South Moravian Region until Wednesday at the latest, i.e. 16. 3. 2022 until noon, specified by the captain. Subsequently, refugees must leave the hotel-type accommodation facility. From Monday, according to the processed schedule, refugees will be transported to the gym for emergency accommodation. Here, meals will be secured within humanitarian organisations, food banks and self-security. And now there's an amendment. The above point will not apply if the owner of the accommodation will accept the offer of JMK, namely the payment for one hosted adult refugee for CZK 10,000 for 30 days, the minor CZK 7,000 and so on. So this particular information, at least at the level of the South Moravian Region, I can't speak for any other region, this is now freshly in my hand, towards other municipalities or stakeholders. So there's quite a time pressure to solve the problem, so it's not necessary to discuss it anymore, I don't know, a week, two weeks, but it's been days. I don't want to complicate your life, I know you're having a hard time, we've had a hard time, too, I can empathize. I say again, as someone was talking here a while ago, I think it was Mr Juchelka, he was talking about the Ministry of Regional Development, this may have been an issue that was completely secured by Klára Dostálová as Minister, of course that the finances worked together, other departments cooperated as needed, we were with everything because everything was about money, but this was just a topic and this must work, it must be teamwork. So I'm just pointing out that the South Moravian Governor has already given a specific order to leave these hotel-type facilities, so the problem is acute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, the Minister is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u30	I thank you very much for what has been read exactly, and the conclusion, where the governor says the amount. I think that if we divide that amount into days, that amount is already what I think it is, by adding the food costs that the person from the humanitarian benefit can cover, that's the amount for which the person can be accommodated in that facility. Yes, if this is a hotel that expects a different income and is set up to want to collect fifteen hundred, eighteen hundred a night, it probably doesn't really meet, but I think that most reasonable, normally accompaniment owners of these companies that provide this background understand this situation that it doesn't have ambition to earn it, ambition to cover all costs and maybe have something there a little bit above and with that somehow now to hold out for a while. And I think that's how we all feel about it, not just in our country, but also here in Central European space, so that we can act solid for a while. When I see carriers driving diesel buses today, they don't even want from the ones they're coming for, even the driver's salary, they say, "we're really just going to do it for diesel," and they're going, I think we need this solidarity rate for a while now. Most of those people and companies are. I understand that it may not be infinitely long, that this approach can take some time. I understand that this is where the tourist season comes in, and I understand that these people want to have really free capacities. So we have to and we can solve all this, but I think what was said, the information that it's quite correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u31	Thank you, Minister. And I also ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word? It does not, so we have closed the general debate and I am now opening the debate in detail. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Jana Pastuchová and Mr Vít Kaňkovský came forward. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u32	Thank you. And I would like to sign up for the amendment under House number 609, which I tabled together with Members Dražilová and Juchelka, and I presented this amendment in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u33	Thank you, Madame. I just noticed in the general debate that you said that the amendment was inserted into the system, does it have a number? [[Voice off the microphone.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[Voice off the microphone: six hundred nine.]] Yes, I'm sorry. [[Member Pastuch: Six hundred and nine.]] Thank you. And now, Mr. Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u34	As I have already announced in the general debate, I would like to sign up to two amendments, as have also been presented to colleagues who have participated in them, these are House documents 614, which concern children's groups, and House document 615, which concerns social services, payments in social services for arrivals from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u35	Thank you, too. And now Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u36	Thank you. I would therefore like to sign up for the amendment under number 616. It is an amendment concerning the solidarity contribution, I have justified it here in the general debate, we have talked about it here, so I am applying to it and I am claiming to be a group of other Members, not just for myself, but for a colleague of Vít Kaňkovský, Olga Richterová and others who are mentioned there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-002-002.u37	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I also ask the Minister whether he is interested in the final word or the rapporteur? [[They're not responding.]] Apparently they don't. I'm asking again if you're interested in the final word? There is no interest, thank you and I finish second reading of this proposal. And I would like to ask the rapporteur, given that, according to the agreement, we will then continue to read the second reading of the next press, whether there will be a need for amendments to be distributed to the Members on the table? Yes, so I'm saying that they will be distributed on your table, colleagues and colleagues, all the amendments. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur, and I am interrupting this point. Before we start the next point, I'll read the apologies. President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes from 13 to 14 o'clock for personal reasons, Jaroslav Faltýnek between 13 and 24 o'clock until the end of the day for family reasons, and she also apologizes to Minister Vlastimil Válek for health reasons, Mrs Urbanová from 12 to 13 o'clock for work reasons. So many apologies. And I would like to begin the following point.
