ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u1	144. Government bill on one-off child / House print 242/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. [[He's not in the O.R.]] It seems the Minister is not present. I therefore ask whether it would be possible for the Minister to appear, for he is the promoter of this proposal. I'm declaring a two-minute recess, within 15.52 hours. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 15.50 to 15.52 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the appellant is present. I will now ask him to take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, fellow Members, allow me to introduce this House press 242, and therefore a government bill on one-off child allowance. Sorry I'm late earlier. We were next door, I couldn't make it here, so I'm sorry about the two minutes the House had to wait. However, the substance of this bill. The possibility and form of support for parents, single parents, single parents, single parents who raise children is introduced in the amount of CZK 5 000 per child. This form of support is intended for all children who will complete 18 years by the end of July of this year and also for all those who are born by the end of this calendar year. For all parents of these children, this form of support is determined here, with an automatic payment of this amount for applicants applying for child allowance during the month of August. Other parents will have to fill out a simple form, a simple request that will allow digital processing of this application and its payment. For parents where it would be difficult to submit this request digitally, through a banking identity or other digital instrument, we agreed that a network of Czech POINTs will be available, which is 6,500 workplaces in the Czech Republic, mainly those managed by the Czech Post or municipal authorities. Here it will be possible to settle this process here and insert this application into the system. What is crucial is that this form of support is intended for households, where parents' income will be up to CZK 1 million gross in 2021, with the system set up so that we can be able to obtain the information - in addition to the applicant ticking the declaration of honour - so that we can verify with the Czech Social Security Administration and with the financial authorities whether this is actually the case. So that's the essential part of who's entitled to it, how it's going to be paid. What is important to say is that, for the purposes of the allowance, the parent, the person to whom the child has been placed under the care of the parent, in accordance with the decision of the competent authority - the spouse, the parent, the widower or the widower of the parent, the spouse or the spouse of the parent, will be considered as the parent. The sum of the income of the persons with whom the child lives on the date of submission of the application for a contribution shall be considered as a decisive income, as shall the sum of the income of the persons with whom the child lives at the time of the examination of the entitlement to State social aid benefits. So that is still the question that concerns the eligibility and assessment of household income. The allowance will be paid for up to 12 months, meaning parents who decide not to ask for it in August or September, but do so later, have time for it within 12 months. As far as the impact on the state budget is concerned, after we have refined the list of children whose parents will be entitled to this form of aid, the estimated number of children is 1,562 000, and this amount should be around CZK 7.8 billion. That's probably all the relevant information on this bill. I will be happy to discuss it so that we can move it to the Senate as soon as possible, and then we can implement the receipt of applications, administration and payment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u3	Thank you, too, Minister, and I will ask you to take your place at the rapporteur's table. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 242/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jan Bauer, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u4	Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, this government bill, which in practice already means a one-off contribution of CZK 5 000, is a relatively well-known matter, so I think it is not necessary for me to repeat the parameters mentioned here by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Therefore, let me just briefly read the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, because this press was quite detailed this morning on the Committee on Social Policy. I also have to say that there have been some seven amendments, which have not been adopted, read and discussed together, and I assume that today, during the debate and subsequently in a detailed debate, they will probably be re-readed here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. So just briefly to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy: "After the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka and the report by Mr Jan Bauer and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to end its negotiations on this bill no later than 21 a.m. on 14 June 2022; IV." - and this is important -'recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill on One-time Child Allowance; V. empowers the Committee's rapporteur - as is customary for these resolutions - "to familiarise himself with the opinion of the Committee with the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, he has made appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please also take your place at the rapporteur's table. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I'm gonna reengage. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. [[16.00 hours]] So we will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 85, 112 Members and Members, for 112, against none. The motion was accepted. That is why I am now opening a general debate and I have the first one registered here, with priority rights will be given by President Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u6	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, today we are discussing the first of several fundamental laws aimed at helping people with higher prices. Acceleration is an issue on which we have all spoken, and we pirát have been pointing out that we will need to help people in some way since January. From the point of view of center-right policy, we considered it the right solution to such a form of aid that people will see regularly in their energy accounts, so it will not be a one-time aid, but since then the situation has evolved quite well. After all, now that we come up with one-off family assistance, it is a contribution that responds to the fact that the situation has been here in a few months and that a new conceptual solution has been created in the form of an austerity tariff. When we called for an energy bonus, we were inspired by a number of other states and, in general, by renowned economists who received Nobelův Prizes for the need to somehow compensate for the effects of longer-term trends such as environmental measures. But even that - it's basically the same principle that we now have the consequences of being more expensive because of the war in Ukraine - the compensation should be such that it motivates people to save, not, say, the biggest beneficiary of savings are those who consume the most energy. The whole system should be set ecologically, and therefore we have responded to things that they test in Austria, for example, where they have created some form of such aid, they have now followed it up, and they are basically doing it exactly the same way the Fialův government is doing. They do so by paying a one-off contribution and, at the same time, having a conceptual long-term solution. British conservatives, for example, do the same, and it is simply a way of helping people without disrupting traditional market mechanisms. [[Intruding?]] Acceleration is not only cosmetic because of Putinův's aggression, but really strongly affects all households, including the middle class, and we primarily wanted to achieve support to touch the middle class, so that it wasn't just direct support that would help only a few tens of thousands of people. According to the data available to us, families with children are among the most endangered groups, of course, singles and singles. Of course, there are some sources of state that the state said it would use to help the population, so it is not aid for debt, on the contrary. From the extra energy money that is being paid today, so from every thousand dollars that will be paid, more than 600 crowns go in some way to the state, whether it is on taxes or on income from allowances and so on, so it is not aid paid on debt, and it is necessary for every aid to be imposed on people in front of a parentheses, that if it is to be conceptual, responsible and unpopular, then the money that is either collected in some way or the state has to be on some other income, but not to be on debt. Of course, everyone can say that it should still be given to these extra ones, that it should be doubled, that it should be given a sum of CZK 5,000 each month. But that's the distribution of money that doesn't exist, and we'd have to take it into debt. If we look at how the government helps. Of course, seniors have legal valorisation, which means that seniors' incomes are valued at a very high amount, so it keeps up with inflation. And unfortunately, the same help is not needed for families, and that is why this bill is presented and why we support it. The families are already running higher reserves today. A number of families or households have ended their fixation today, so it is necessary that some of the money that families with children receive can be used for these purposes. It is not a holiday allowance, but the final proposal is based on a compromise so that we can actually get the money to the people, where they are needed, and where they can help. But really, this is just a provisional, and we should have fun here in the Chamber of Deputies systemically, how to set up help. I remember being with my colleague Havlíček, Vice-President of the ANO movement, in Debata last autumn and there we talked about the proposal to introduce energy vouchers. This is something that I said at the time that we support, that this is some kind of aid that is fair to people, that there is no effect there as in the remission of value added tax, that the biggest consumers receive even the biggest discounts, which we consider uneconological, are unmotivating to savings. Indeed, the state here is not in a position to spend money on subsidizing someone's heated pool or saunas or stuff like that. Unfortunately, we are not in this situation, and that is why I think that the solution that the government has prepared, and it is true that it has taken some time and it is still not quite finished, but it is precisely the austerity tariff. This is essentially linked to the energy bonus and vouchers proposed by the YES movement in the autumn of last year. It is a conceptual solution, it is a solution that is fair, goes across society and builds on one-off assistance to resolve the situation in the long term. But in particular, it motivates those people to actually save energy, because the answer to expensive energy can only be that everyone has to start taking care of savings. On the other hand, logically, if we immediately abolished the value added tax, we would ultimately motivate more energy consumption, and this would actually lead to another secondary increase in energy prices, so we could not support this opposition proposal, while I think the voucher principle was a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, the problem is that even during the reign of Minister Havlíček, the proposal failed to prepare, and when the government was handed over, there was no such proposal. Of course, we need to have a serious discussion about where to take resources on all these matters. We have already talked about the fact that the state has higher incomes, but given the fact that pensions and others are paid out of this, there is also a need to open up a debate about where to take the long-term price increases at a time when record costs for households are on energy and housing, and at the moment when some businesses have record revenues from energy prices, there is a need to hold a debate. For us, entering this debate is that we should introduce a solidarity contribution from the extraordinary profits of coal power plants. That's where we can get the money, they're making money now. It's non-ecological, there's mercury emissions, and so on, it goes on for exceptions. The profits are ten times higher. This is the source from which we can take money to help households. Of course, the debate on how to split money doesn't make any sense without saying where to get it. The money they have today is really extraordinary, temporary profits that fell into their laps. I am happy for them, at the same time it is necessary to respond to this as it is in the UK and to provide that at this extraordinary time, when the state needs to compensate for the effects, this should be addressed in tax form. Otherwise, we would have witnessed them entering the stock market, earning record amounts, and households would really have nothing to live on. So some way to return some of this energy-paid money to people just from those who make the most of it is really desirable. [[16.10 hours]] The second source of money for energy bonuses that need to be discussed is the fair share of citizens in mineral wealth. Mineral wealth is, as we know, owned by all citizens of the Czech Republic. Here we suffer from the fact that we have very low prices, that they are really CZK units, which are chosen for a cubicle of coal, which will benefit from the national wealth of a private company. So at this time, let's look for a way to increase the remuneration that the state is supposed to make of mineral wealth in such a way that it doesn't affect people. This means that we can talk about the fact that if it goes to a coal-fired power plant, where huge margins are the direct profit of the power plant owner, we can raise the price there, on the contrary, if it is for end-users, then we can somehow set it free, but so that the sum of the sum occurs that those who now have the biggest profits, for example from coal energy, can actually contribute more to the payment of aid, because we will need the money. And the third point where you take money is the Modernization Fund, where there's a lot of extra money due to the fact that it's made up of money for emission allowances. We're talking about 400 billion crowns in ten years. The money is now allocated to gasification, and the government is obviously figuring out how to use the money effectively to help people. What we'd like to push through is for the money to go to energy-saving apartments. We are talking about the fact that - as we said, what causes inflation are, and not only are expensive energy, but it is expensive housing, especially in large cities, expensive housing, and that housing is often energy-inefficient - so what could be paid from the Modernization Fund is the construction of about 60,000 energy-saving apartments. I think the promotion of environmental households is really appropriate, and the money's there. I've noticed some really big reservations here and the opposition's attacks on the government that the government is doing nothing. Well, I think we are very open to discussing in substance the proposals that the opposition will come up with, but so far I have only noted that opposition parties are defiling mainly for the media and, of course, some colleagues... [[Member Nacher has expressed his disagreement with the speaker from the position on the bench.]] I see Patrik's upset, but Patrik and I are talking about Airbnb, but now we're talking about expensive energy... [[President Kovářová: Through.]] , through Madam President, so it bangs on the table, but let us have a debate. But the debate is not done here, at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. When we were in opposition, we made proposals, we sent them to the government, we discussed them, sometimes we heard some nasty dirty words from the Prime Minister, but we really dated the proposals. And here I have not noticed that President Babiš would come up with a great proposal, he would come to Mr Fiala to deal with it by a really good leader, the party chairman, and he would bring in concrete proposals to help in this area. Unfortunately, President Babiš is not taking part in the debate, he is going around the Republic with what should be done, but rather than sticking up here in the Chamber of Deputies for the approval of these proposals to address the meeting of Prime Minister Fiala or Vice-President of the Government of Ivan Bartoš, Minister Síkela and other ministers, so unfortunately this is not happening. Nor is the SPD's way of reacting that the SPD has set up a petition to deal with these issues, which I think is also not quite how laws should be enforced in the Chamber of Deputies, the petition is a little small. But on the other hand, I would like to commend our colleagues in the opposition from the SPD that they openly come up with proposals where to take just to help at this time, to help with the price increase for individual households. This is what all political parties need to be clear about if they propose distribution, to say from what sources this will apply. And now I wanted to say a few more words about the environmental consequences, about what was also said here in the debate and, rather, today in the presentation of the programme, when ecologists are actually being accused of the causes of the price increase, and this is a contribution to the price increase. So let's not repeat this matter, please, that the environmentalists are to blame for the price increase. Yes, of course it is a complex mosaic of causes, but the biggest cause currently is the issue of war in Ukraine. Let's not make this an environmental problem. When I think of how we discussed it last fall, it was said that bad fanatics were responsible, I think the ANO movement said that in TV debates, but I get it, there were elections. But it's not. It really turned out that Putin was behind this, that the war in Ukraine was behind it. So, please, it's just my appeal, let's not put the price on ecology. We have commitments from the European Union that need to be fulfilled. The commitments are not self-effective, the commitments are based on the fact that there is a broad consensus among scientists that if we want to preserve ecosystems here, so that the current nature works, so that the bonds in nature stay as they are set up, we just have to release less carbon dioxide. Yes, it will mean that something will get expensive somewhere, but overall, the impact will be significantly smaller than the impending effects of slow global warming on the planet. The fact that we are actually at risk here today, if we do nothing about it, that spruce forests will disappear, there will be enormous ecological damage, droughts, empty wells, parched gardens, disrupted ecosystem bonds that have been carefully tuned in nature for thousands of years, soil degradation, extreme weather fluctuations and unbearable heat in the city centre, floods with billions of damage, various wind phenomena and so on, are really things that, if we do not deal effectively, will cost us many and many hundreds of billions of crowns, in the long term trillions of crowns. Which is why I would like to appeal to the fact that every time we talk about resources, we don't blame environmentalists and citizens who care about the future, their children, and who don't basically want to give their children a debt to wine, where today all the sneaking heat is on debt, where we borrow money and pledge future generations. Well, that's just an appeal. Now, then, by concluding on how the government is helping. There was a road tax that would help the owners of vehicles, an excise duty that would be... I accept that the reduction is not otherwise dizzying, but at least it leads to the price increase not continuing at a rate that would otherwise continue. There is this one-time contribution, in the order of 10 billion crowns. There is a planned energy tariff and there we are talking about some 50 billion crowns, and the advantage of the energy tariff, as was the advantage of vouchers that originally promoted the ANO movement, is that it is flexible, that it is a tool that is flexible, that we can modify its parameters. So if we find that the situation of the families and the impacts are much bigger than we anticipated, we can very flexibly reconfigure the instrument and increase the support. On the contrary, if it turns out that if this were to go well and the war in Ukraine was to end, we could react very flexibly again, if the situation were to recover and there was no unnecessary waste of taxpayers' money, which, of course, if we continued to spend money and put money into circulation, unnecessary money that we do not have, would result in inflation accelerating even further. So, in conclusion, I would like to thank you for being able to process this proposal as a provisional solution. It is part of the center-right aid, but at the same time it is not a solution that would be expendable, which would make the situation even worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u7	Thank you, Mr President, and now Mrs Peštová will speak with effect. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, and I would like to respond, of course, to my previous speaker, Mr Michálek. I do not know if you have registered, today two committees, the Committee of the Environment and the Committee of the Economics of the European Union have been adopted, and these resolutions are designed to block the inclusion of core and gas among ecologically clean sources. You hear well, these two committees have adopted these resolutions, and now this will be discussed in plenary. And I am quite curious, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, what path will we take? If this is approved by the plenary, what path will the Czech Republic take, if you propose here, how will we actually raise the price of thermal power plants because they are ew? What path do we take when green Brusel shows us and tells us that the core and the gas are wrong? Can you please tell me what we're gonna do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u9	Thank you, Madame. Mr Brabec will now take the stand and prepare Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, fellow Members, fellow Members of the Government, members and members of the Government, I would also like to respond to President Michálek. Now I don't know if he's listening to our suggestions or if he doesn't want to hear them. I apologise, but, Mr President, through Madam President, perhaps ten times already the YES movement here, and again today through Vice-President Havlíček, it has proposed solutions such as the opening of the Modernisation Fund and the opening of the emission allowance trading law, so that the money could be used in other ways. So you, on the one hand, say, why doesn't the YES movement come up with any suggestions? I must point out that we've been coming with them for months. I do not know that you, as pirát, would support us in these matters, which is why I consider it extremely hypocritical on your part if you call us to any proposals that are already here. Support us and it can be in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u11	Thank you. In fact, Mr Nacher will now speak and prepare Mr Juchelka. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u12	Madam Vice-President, I will not be able to be in the hall if some Members speak because I will not be able to do it, then I will sign up, there I am vibrating completely on the spot. I would have responded to the words of my colleague Michálek, through you. He's already indicated it to Richard Brabec. For one thing, you're in the coalition now, we're in the opposition. When you were in opposition, you criticized how the government doesn't communicate, how it beats you here. Now you're in a coalition criticizing how we do the wrong work of the opposition. So whatever side you're on, you're always criticizing the YES Movement for doing it wrong. And here are the specific things that we have put forward, twelve measures. Repeatedly, colleagues here are proposing points on the emission allowances programme, not paying temporarily for renewable resources, reducing VAT, these are specific things that we are either proposing, or they are already prints, and you are not permanently assigning them. So we're gonna make a suggestion, you're not gonna put it in place, and then you're gonna tell us we don't have any suggestions. I don't really know if you believe what you just said. At least don't say that. Yes, you have a majority, you don't have to include it, but don't blame us for not having anything when we have it, we just can't get through you. And we're not even able to push through those things, which is short-term accommodation, as my colleague Michálek mentioned here, suggesting by your own people. That's completely absurd. So you don't approve of the opposition here at all, I respect that, but then don't give us the benefit of the doubt that we won't come up with anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mr Juchelka will now make a point of fact, and President Michálek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u14	I thank you, Madam President, and also through you I will respond to Mr Michálek and I will be purely practical. We already have in the system, in addition to proposals for amendments to laws, which we have been submitting here for several months, for example, a proposal to increase the mobility allowance from 550 to 2 000 crowns. The government coalition has nothing because the social package for disabled people has been moved again from last week probably to this week. But I'm really saying over and over again that we can't wait a few months to raise after all the gems that we have here, fuel, food, credit refinance, and so on at home, weeks to help those who have a ZTP/P card. Now we have an increase in the elderly, that is, to those who live as individuals in households. We also have an increase in parenting as a law amendment to 400,000 valorizations, which we had as part of our pre-election program. And at this point, we have a unique opportunity, for example, during tomorrow's day, when the draft State Social Support Act will be opened here, so that even the Pirates here can make their updated amendment to raise the parent's parent's pension, I think it will be CZK 345,000 with valorisation. Unfortunately, I did not find any such amendment in the Committee on Social Policy today or in the system, so the opposite is true. We're trying, we're putting bills into the system, we're discussing them, for example, on the Social Policy Committee, we want them to be put here, but instead, the pirát, when it comes to breaking bread, they just bail on the citizens, and even that stupid parent doesn't just raise people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor to President Michálek, I will read the apologies. Mr Bureš apologizes from today's meeting from 17.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work. Mrs Nina Nováková also apologizes from today's meeting between 15.30 and 18 o'clock for health reasons. And now, with a point of fact, the Member and Chairman of the Jakub Michálek Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u16	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the contributions of the previous speakers. I certainly do not criticize the opposition's coming up with its own proposals, when I am talking about their content. I draw attention to the fact that the opposition that wants to be successful does not come up with these proposals only in the media space, or in the information system of the Chamber of Deputies, but that they address representatives of the government, representatives of the coalition, with their proposals and negotiate support for them. In the same way, when we were like the Pirates in opposition, we pushed through a lot of things because we met with the ministers of the Babiš government, even Prime Minister Babiš, we pushed through a nomination law, Mr Vojtěch and I pushed through a lot, Mr Hamáček and I passed the right to digital service, Mr Kněžínek the prosecutor, Mr Jok and I prepared a taxi service - these are all the processes that run outside the Chamber of Deputies. The meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, this is indeed the official formal process, when it is completed and when a political proposal is to be proposed, which is being prepared. So if the opposition really wants to do something for citizens that has an effect, which is not just an effect in the media, it is necessary to conduct this negotiations and to get support for its proposals. I'm afraid that's not happening today. This is not because the Prime Minister is not present, he does not participate in the negotiations, and the proposals are merely inserted into the system and are not supported in a way that should actually work in standard working relations between the opposition and the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u17	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u18	Thank you. It's true the Prime Minister isn't here. I don't see him anywhere. In any case, we must act quickly, first of all, because, as you know, inflation is rising, we may have twice as much as the neighbouring Austria, which has now put EUR 28 billion into the aid, and in the first lot there were approximately CZK 150 billion in conversion into crowns. Do you know why you could have taken part in these various meetings? Because our ministers in the former government were helpful. They were really the ones who were willing to deal with you and the support to bring each other together in some way. Some of these ministers are helpful here. I'm in contact with Mr. Marian Jurečka. I think a lot of ministers here are in contact with our Members. But, for example, Minister Síkela? Is there any way to get to him, call him, make an appointment, come up with any suggestions for support? Do you think maybe our honored colleague, Klára Dostálová, can get to your president, Mr Bartoš, and match all that stuff with him? [[16.30 hours]] I feel like you guys are drunk by having a hundred and eighty here, most of it, and you're trying to roll it. And now it's not working out for you and you're trying to argue that we're not coming to you. You, on the contrary, are the ones who rule. You come up with suggestions and you have to go to the opposition and say: We are here, we have these suggestions, please help us somehow enforce it. Do you have a compromise proposal? Or do you agree with it this way? Or are you going to nigger it? As we do, for example, communicate with Minister Jurečka. So I think it's the other way around. The fact that you're having a bit of a fabulous time here, Mr. Ambassador, because I think reality is somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u19	Time... Thank you for keeping time. We have now exhausted all the factual points, and before I give the floor to Mrs Pastuchová, I have here Mrs Šafránková's application, who will speak with priority law with the opinion of the SPD member club. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the proposal for a one-off child allowance of CZK 5 000, which is finally presented to us today after almost two months of promises. At the very beginning, I say that our members of the SPD will support this proposal, but at the same time I point out that the proposal of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka is very poorly prepared. He's unsystemic, unfair, and he's late. After all, his original proposal was ripped apart by the Government Legislative Council and other comment points because of his poor quality. Moreover, the application procedure is administratively demanding for citizens, and it will be even more overwhelmed by the already very overloaded labour offices, even because of the senseless division of children and parents into two groups, one of which does not have to ask for a contribution and the other one does. We consider the timing of the August contribution to be an attempt at a pleasing political gesture before the September municipal and Senate elections. For the SPD movement, I submit three amendments to this bill, which in combination or separately involve two changes which would eliminate its most serious defects. Firstly, we want children under 26 to be entitled to this allowance, as is the case with all other family benefits and support, i.e. all children in this age category who study, including college students, or children who cannot study or work for reasons of serious disability, and not only children under 18, as suggested by the government, which severely affects thousands of working parents of single parents and families, especially low-income ones. Furthermore, we propose that entitlement to this allowance should not be conditional on the level of parental income in 2021, when it is due to be paid in August 2022, when the current income situation of many families can be diametrically different and worse than last year. Both of our proposed changes bring justice, logic and order into the government's draft, as well as facilitating and cheaper administration and administration of this contribution, including the process of asking for it, their assessment and handling. As regards the age condition, where according to the government only children under the age of 18 are entitled to benefit from the allowance at 31. 7. 2022, in Law No. 117/1995 Coll., which is the Act on State Social Support, is clearly defined in relation to social benefits the term "non-funded child" is defined. These are children under 26 years of age who either participate in compulsory schooling or are continuously preparing for future occupations by further studies, or persons under 26 years of age who cannot prepare for future occupations or pursue gainful activities for sickness or injury. It is therefore perfectly logical and only right that all children corresponding to this legal definition, or their families, parents and legal representatives, should be entitled to this one-off child allowance if they fulfil the other conditions of the bill, such as residence with relevant exceptions. The limitation of entitlement to the allowance of 18 years of age of a child is completely unsystematic, unfair and discriminatory to families with carefree children under 26 years of age, and there is no objective reason to do so. This limitation would be affected by many particularly low-income families and single parents, including third and fourth-year high school secondary school students, whose senior classmates would, on the contrary, receive this contribution a few days later. [[Younger?]] By the way, the vast majority of students of the fourth year of secondary schools and their families would not receive this contribution at all because they reach 18 years of age with regard to the rules and length of schooling already in the third year of secondary school. This example also shows the illogicality and nonsense of the government's proposal. The second dubious barrier to accessing this contribution is its limitation on the income of its parents to CZK 1 million for 2021. This limitation, on the one hand, brings a great deal of complexity and burden to the whole process of applicants and the competent authorities, especially the labour authorities, and, on the other hand, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka himself stated that the difference in the budgetary impact of the proposed measure and the situation where all children would be entitled to the allowance, regardless of the amount of parental income, is only over CZK 1 billion. For another, this restriction is very senselessly set in the form of an assessment of last year's income, when the income and socio-economic situation of many families and parents could have been completely different from today's one, as I have already mentioned. Their current revenues can therefore be significantly lower. These parents may be in a situation of long-term incapacity for work, they may currently be completely income-free. Moreover, family income is a very relative concept, especially in relation to the different costs of families. The costs of families with one child living in their own or cooperative apartment and the costs of families with multiple children, some of which are disabled and require expensive care, paying a high mortgage or paying high rents in large cities, regardless of astronomically rising prices of all basic life needs and inflation. Therefore, I propose that the level of parental income be completely excluded from the bill. Both of our proposed changes will also mean a very significant reduction in the administrative agenda associated with the submission of requests for a contribution and their handling, which will, among other things, relieve the overloaded employees of the labour offices, which this government has again literally thrown this contribution at the head. In doing so, it was clearly offered that these benefits should be handled by the Czech Social Security Administration and by the self-employed then by the financial authorities, as well as by the compensation bonus at the time of the covido. However, the most appropriate solution is that all dependent children under 26 years of age should be entitled to this allowance, regardless of their parents' income and without any complex and costly requests. This is the main substance of our amendments, which I propose to the Government's proposal for the SPD movement, and I beg you for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u21	Thank you, Madame, and now we have the first duly signed in, and that is Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Before I give you my word, I'll read an apology. Mrs Michaela Šebelová apologizes today between 18.30 and 23.45 until the end of the day for working reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. We are discussing a one-off contribution to the child, but like the President, through your, Mr Michálek, he has presented us with some of his programmes, because we have learned here about ecology and everything and how we will help everyone, so I have one thing to say. [[16.40 hours]] I'm not surprised you mentioned Babiš three times in your speech. I'd miss that if you didn't say so. Secondly, you say to come to you and make suggestions. So I will read to you what our Mr. Governor Martin Půta posted on his Facebook about two hours ago in the Liberec Region, the Mayors of the Liberec Region are part of STAN, i.e. government, and calls on the government to address the energy crisis and fuel price. Ten minutes later, the whole coalition threw it off the table. So even your captains - not yours, but STAN's captains - are begging for something to be dealt with. So that's about it. We propose we have twelve measures, as my colleague Aleš Juchelka said, some things are already in the system. And you know, it comes to you when someone here tells you at the beginning of your term to sit in a desk and shove your feet, because there's 108 of you and you don't vote for anything, so it also shows something. But now I'm gonna get to what we're supposed to do today. Today there was a committee on social policy and, of course, this was a big discussion. I have been here for several years, and I have always thought that KDU-ČSL is really their main point in all programmes is the support of families with children. That's why I'm very surprised that they've come to this compromise - I don't know if they've fought for it little or much or... 'Cause the difference, and I'm gonna be here repeating myself to the fact that we agree and we're glad that finally, finally, something will be done for families with children. Just as you criticized us for shady, we can say it's crayon because it's coming in August, but none of us sitting here is the one-off contribution, because we all have a wage of more than one million crowns of gross. [[No one?]] So we're making decisions here about families who don't have that salary. I ask - or I asked - why did he really agree to 18 years of age, when all social benefits are for a careless child under 26 years of age? I have been answered today by the Social Committee, but the Minister doesn't even hide that children from 18 years of age can earn extra jobs. I agree with that, I also said that my daughter, from the age of 15, 16, went to a part-time job, all through high school, all through college, but those kids at that part-time job -- for example, we're still talking about single moms -- they're already going to that part-time job, they're going now. And I asked the minister if they should take a second part-time job or a third part-time job, because those kids are helping the family now. So the job, the part-time job - of course, I support it, but I'm saying, the kids are already working now. The difference - that is what I am asking, Minister, was not the intermediary of yours because you left for another work meeting - I asked the Deputy Minister what would be the difference in money if this contribution had been given to children under 26, 18 plus 26 years old, so I was told by your Deputy Minister that it would be about 1.7 billion extra, which seems to me really, given that the cost of setting up IT technology costs 30 million, we were told that they would be used for additional benefits, but now they had to be spent, the Deputy Minister for IT told us there when we talked about the banking identity and ignorance of some people, how to set it up and that it was not quite easy, so he told us that a massive campaign would be made, so it would probably not be for free. Well, we mustn't forget all the work of all those who, even if it is electronically, will be processed. And what's the biggest hit, which I really don't understand when I asked how it's going to be in AC care, because in AC care, as we know, they take a child allowance for three months one, three months the second, when they're two kids, so that's 10,000, the answer was that the person who logged in earlier would get it. Well, that's amazing. Who's gonna sign up first? There are families who really, mother and father, don't get along and alternate care, even if they have child benefits in half that year, because it's six and six, after three months, this one-time allowance for the child gets a parent who tells himself first, which doesn't make my head feel any better. We really believe that CZK 1.7 billion is not big enough for this budget to really do not make galimatyas in the payment of social benefits, child benefits under the age of 26. And here we only fixed it by the age of 18 years. That's about it. I believe that some, I say, there aren't many Members here because it doesn't concern any of us, but we make decisions here for many families, and I think that two classmates, even in high school, who are 18 and one month and seventeen and three hundred days old, and they both have a mom who cares about them - or a dad who's taking care of them, they're already on vacation, they've got two months of part-time jobs, and we've all been through it, so I think it would really be worth considering whether it's worth it to bother those families by going to ask for their income, 'cause maybe it's not gonna go electronically, as we've learned, it's gotta go there, and who comes first, who's talking first. If you're really worth the 1.7 billion to bother those families so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u23	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Šafránková is now registered, who is not present, and Mrs Lenka Knechtová is now duly registered, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, Minister, I am calling for proposals from the club of the ANO movement for the following reasons. The government isn't helping, and the little it does is late. The contribution is the first at least some help from the government. I support her, but at the same time I say it's not enough, and most importantly it's too late. Those one-off 5,000 families don't solve the situation, they have increased costs every month. Helping families in August is not a rescue. We're all paying tens of percent more than our energy, and that's a few thousand a month. That is why we want to repeat the contribution, and that is logical. The umbrella is for situations where it rains when - figuratively speaking - water rises, we have to choose other measures that we constantly remind you of. As far as costs are concerned, the government proposal envisages the cost of CZK 7.8 billion. As opposed to the government, we want the upper limit to be dependent on children under the age of 26 and the cost would be approximately CZK 12.4 billion. Indebtedness or we cannot afford it - you are clearly manipulating public opinion here. Everyone knows that the debt to GDP is one of the lowest in Europe, even lower than what we have inherited from the parties that are now in government. People solve real problems. Other countries that are much more indebted than we are also helping. Our government sits and makes excuses for a high debt. You underestimate the reality of our citizens and live in the idea that you are able to help at any time, but it is necessary to make meaningful steps with a view to the future and in the coherence of all departments. You've got a lot of signals in all areas. [[16.50 hours]] The government increased the contribution from EUR 0.35 to 0.38, from about 8 to about 9 crowns per kilometre for people who commute to work more than 21 kilometers. The Němec don't forget their low-income residents. They released CZK 3.17 billion into one-off aid. A very reasonable step was taken by the Němec as well as by public transport. And Germany's debt? They have two thirds of debt, i.e. approximately 66 percent higher. Austria - for the last time today, by 2026 it will pay EUR 28 billion. Are we going to turn inflation? But that would be true if inflation were demand. But we already have a long-term inflation cost, and only the government doesn't seem to notice it. That means that businesses, businessmen, and people are rising their entry costs and they can't cover them. It turns out that logically, everyone is gradually making everything more expensive. I would like to give the facts and consider their meaningfulness. Children who will not reach 18 years of age on 1 August 2022 will reach CZK 5,000. Thus, whoever reaches 18 years of age on 1 August 2022 is no longer entitled to the allowance. The completion of the age is the 18th birthday because the first year of age will be completed on the day of the first birthday. For the allowance, parents will reach up to CZK 1 million per year. For an idea: it means 83 333 crowns per month. However, it is not monthly but annual income that is decisive. The revenue for the last calendar year is crucial. The other two groups will have to apply for a contribution. They can't get it automatically. These are children who, in July, are not entitled to a child allowance for June 2022 and at the same time as on 1 August 2022, have not completed 18 years of age, children born from 2 August 2022 to 31 December 2022. Applications will be submitted electronically via the Ministry's application, or through public authorities' contact points, Czech POINTs. The price of the application 30 million crowns. According to the Czech Statistical Office, nearly 2 003 000 children under 18 were in the Czech Republic by the end of 2021. More than one fifth, 22 percent of the household with children under the age of 18, has at the same time higher than million income, results from statistical surveys and estimates. Thus, if parents request a contribution from 1,562 000 children, the cost of the state will reach approximately CZK 7.8 billion. In conclusion, it's all slow, and based on the above, it's always going to be slow and burdening people. Everyone will have to spend their time figuring out what he's entitled to, if he's even entitled, if he can ask where and how. People have real problems, and instead of a quick reaction, the government creates a set of many limitations and conditions that are complex and unreadable. First, the government presented the 5000 crown contribution, then we found out that Minister Jurečka was wrong and that the limit was not 1 million gross, but 1 million net. [[clean?]] [[Rude?]] Respectfully, Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura told us. Today we have a legislative proposal. This is what words in practice look like: The quick helper helps twice. It is slow and inadequate, but people need to be helped in the long term. I don't know why it takes the government so long to increase the living and existential minimum. It was a mistake that it was only increased by 10 percent. We are already at almost 15% inflation, and the government is still sending signals that there will be a renewed increase. If the government had better evaluated all the problems together across the resorts, it would have raised the living and existential minimum directly about our requested 20 percent. All families with children need help today, but the government's progress is very slow and complex to understand. Everyone's spending energy, transportation, food. We need to realise that we are moving in the field of basic needs. As a result, it is an area aid and will still cause enormous administrative difficulty. There are other illogicalities. Why is the ceiling 18 years old? It should be linked to the age of 26 students. What about the students? For example, two classmates from one of the senior classes. One lives in a complete family with income just below that limit, and since he is still 17, he is entitled to the allowance. The second is just 18, lives with only one parent and has an income of 400,000 a year. He will not be entitled to the allowance. That doesn't make sense, colleagues. Minister, you shouldn't give advice to a clever brigade hobby. Has the MPSV evaluated the offer in individual regions, municipalities, whether this advice of yours is even feasible in practice? Is it real that students between 18 and 26 years of age currently have jobs across the Czech Republic? Do you understand that young people will only work their whole lives? Is it really necessary for them to work at the same time in the last years of their studies? In the last years of secondary schools, after a covido period with online learning, everyone has had enough and is catching up not only with learning but also with practice. There are now practical graduations in high school, two didactic tests, two written papers and four graduation courses. You think the students don't have enough? Today, thanks to nine years of primary school attendance, the age of graduates is normally 19, 20, 21. In 2019 economists have calculated that parents will pay an average of CZK 1.6 million for education and nutrition from birth to age 18. With the age of the child's education costs are rising rapidly and in high school and in high school, the costs are already calculated in 2019 astronomical, according to economists up to 15,000 a month. The icing on the cake is the one to whom the allowance will be paid if the child is in alternating care. As a standard, payment of the allowance is exchanged after three months. Three months' allowance goes to the mother and three months' father. And your final solution? This is a disaster. So you're going to increase the tension in families, which, of course, is logically reflected on children again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u25	Thank you, Madame. And now Mr Juchelka is signed in, Mr Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u26	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief, because there's been a lot said about it. Just for starters, because we also had Daniel Prokop on the board of family of our time, who told us statistically that de facto 20 percent of people could not afford extraordinary expenses. CZK 12,000 at the moment, and 5% of people cannot afford to buy meat. And that de facto energy, rents, mortgage refinances, sewerage and other housing charges have risen so much that the average housing price has risen by CZK 1,500 a month since November. That is why I also believe that large-scale or more extensive aid is much better than what is being presented to us here. Otherwise, of course, I can say that we raise our hand for it, because any help is of course important. I would therefore like to present three of the five amendments that we have in the system at the moment. Another will be presented by Mr Brabec, who will be our most flat, de facto for all, and then by colleague Hendrych, who will present his compromise proposal, which is mainly due to age and high school students, and will explain it. I would like to present three amendments at the moment. It's simple. We're increasing the age limit up to 26 years, just as the government introduced it, by the end of the year. Also, if this does not pass, we will be happy if you support this single dose here by the end of the year, and then we have a combination of 26 years and by the end of the year, and that is the third amendment. I will certainly express myself more perhaps if there is any discussion here in the factual notes. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Brabec will now appear, Mr Hendrych will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as my previous speaker said, I would just briefly mention the relatively most general proposal that the YES movement has, however we obviously know the fate of voting this proposal will eventually have, but perhaps I am wrong and we will get the attention and support from the government coalition. As has already been said by my previous speakers and will undoubtedly continue to be said, I think that the government proposal for essentially one-off benefits, one-off contributions, is insufficient, so I think few have doubts about that. And I even think that many politicians have a government coalition to doubt that it is sufficient. There has also been a long debate here today, and there will certainly still be a need for other proposals, in which we are, of course, at the moment - incredibly high inflation and its effects. And, as some economists have already said, a near-perfect economic storm, unfortunately in that negative sense, which, of course, affects our citizens and will be very sensitive and will, of course, depend primarily on families with children, that is what we want to deal with our proposals. And our most flat-rate proposal - I will really follow up on my colleague Juchelka - is that the five-thousand-dollar contribution would have been paid for six months for every child who is not provided for up to the age of 26. And I will return to him briefly and join him in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. I'm taking charge of the meeting. We are in a general debate where I register two applications. First of all, Mr Igor Hendrych will appear and Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I will, first of all, present my amendment, or our joint amendment with Mr Juchelka, who is registered under number 910, but perhaps a few comments before that. I asked the Minister today about the Committee on Social Policy, where he came from for CZK 1 million, whether it was based on a population analysis or whether it had some methodological basis, whether we were actually working with some methodology in this respect. I was told that no, that some range of 0.8 to 1.2 million crowns of annual income was considered, and in the end there was some kind of coalition agreement. I don't like it very much, because I think that for two months, or the first signal you sent two months ago, you'd be this special batch, if that's what you call it, creating that there was quite enough time for it to be a little bit more thoughtful, to make a better argument about why it's up to CZK 1 million. But so be it. Then I have one more problem, another as if professional. One of the basic principles of social policy - and we will find it in any technical literature, whether domestic or foreign - speaks of some principles of social policy, and one of the most important is the so-called principle of justice or the principle of social justice. And here we come, I think, considerably. Let me give you an example. The single mother, who has two children who have completed 18 years of age, will not be able to make a donation. They've completed that age freshly. She can't reach the allowance, she's a single-timer. And now we have, for example, the opposite of parents who live together, in a common home, they're married, they have two children, they're in a band of up to CZK 1 million, and for children, they're only going to reach that contribution because the children haven't reached 18 years of age. Parents with one child reach, single mother with two children does not reach. So this principle is greatly disturbed in my opinion, but we could say more of these examples here, of course, I don't want to delay. I will go to my amendment or our joint amendment. In principle, the point is that he is excluded with our main fundamental amendment or with the previous proposals, when we want the benefit up to the 26 years that have been introduced here. It is a kind of alternative, compromise proposal if these proposals did not pass, and it would concern dependent children under the age of 21 who are constantly preparing to study their future occupations in secondary schools, or in secondary vocational schools, grammar schools and so on. I think it is important to think of this group specifically because there is a really huge difference between a high school student who is already 18 or 19 years old or often 20 years old, and a student who is older and de facto is much more competent to decide, eventually, that he will, say, earn somewhere, because the minister very often argues that those people at that age should go to the brigade, or they can go to the brigade and so on, and thus improve the socio-economic situation of the family in which they live. So I think there's a pretty significant line between high school students and college students. Because to say to the graduates, because, let's say, after 18 years of age, until 21 years of age, we're going to say, "Go to the brigade and potentially neglect your high school studies, I think it's wrong." If a person finishes college or doesn't finish, that's a little different, he's already qualified, because he has to go to college with his graduation, but a person who doesn't have a high school degree and he doesn't have a high school degree, so I think he should first of all attend his school responsibilities. For this reason, I propose or propose this Amendment 910 where, in the event that the previous proposals submitted by the YES movement fail, the age of 21 years would be voted and taken into account for, of course, the use of the parameter that proves that the person is still a student of secondary school or an apprentice of vocational school. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u31	Thank you, too. Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will now appear, Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the Government Bill on one-off child allowance, in which, in short, it is proposed for families with an income of up to 1 million gross per child under 18 years of age to pay a one-time allowance of 5 000. I must say that families with children, which are based on analyses as one of the most vulnerable groups in the population and which have been facing financial problems for several months because of high inflation, high energy prices, fuel, food and all other products, are still waiting to help the state. Now, after a few months, this proposal is put forward, but it will only help some of the families again, those who have children under 18, which is a condition for me, which gives me the slightest logic, especially when we realize that most other benefits are taken into account by careless children under 26. So if, in practice, we imagine two low-income families with roughly the same fixed income, one has a child who studies, is therefore careless and has not yet celebrated his 18th birthday, then the family will receive the contribution. The second family with almost identical conditions, only with the difference that their carefree student child has already celebrated their 18th birthday, will not receive a contribution, but both of these families, due to similar or equal income, are also facing equally serious financial problems. In the present situation, this creates a great deal of injustice and leaves part of the families unhelpful. [[17.10 hours]] I am sorry that it is in our Republic that the government has decided to go with this targeted aid, because when we look anywhere else in other countries, they tend to be more inclined to those measures. For example, in Austria, they have now approved a truly generous package of anti-inflationary measures, where each person, plus each child, will reach 250 euros per dose, and do not forget specific groups at risk, such as unemployed or low-income pensioners, who will also receive a contribution of EUR 300. When I return to the current situation with us, i.e. in the Czech Republic, where families and individuals face very high inflation and a really significant increase in a large range of basic cost of living, here the impact on some people is really overwhelming, and if they do not get help from the state, their social situation will continue to deteriorate. In view of what I have just said, I therefore consider the government's proposal inadequate. As my colleagues have already said before me, we are presenting several amendments as YES. I will not repeat them here, because, as I say, they have been heard here since my colleagues, so in conclusion, I would just like to say that I will support the Government's proposal, because it is at least some help, but I would very much like to approve at least some of the amendments that we are proposing so that help can reach a larger number of families who urgently need it and are waiting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u33	Thank you, too, Madame. I will now ask for Mr Marek Novák's speech and Mrs Renata Oulehlová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, if citizens are looking at us now, they need to be told the good news, namely, citizens, the government's five-wheeler, who has the majority of 108 votes here in the House, and can afford essentially anything at any time to vote, anything, finally after half a year of vows, skipping, analyzing, etching silence and delaying finally comes up with at least some solution to help. This, according to the five-calice, is a one-off CZK 5,000 for a child under the age of 18, provided that the family does not make more than a million in a year. From my point of view, this is a very little and completely inadequate solution. One time you're gonna tape one hole from your colander - you're calling it the Umbrella versus poverty - which, however, doesn't solve anything in the future. You tell everyone who cares for careless children over the age of 18 to 26 that you don't care about them, and you don't care if the careless children are preparing for a future profession. You want to get out of the Czech montovna, which is why you say to high school students and college students: Leave your studies and go to work because your parents will no longer be able to support and support you? Is that the social policy? First of all, let's collect the data. In general, energy shortages have been added to energy providers' failures. Inflation is going up, and as far as food is concerned, it is already more than 30 percent. On February 24, Russia attacked Ukraine, and millions of people had to leave their war-tested homes. It started to be a problem with oil, but also wheat, fertilizers, and I don't know what's not and will not be, and our government still has nothing. It actually suits her that people devalue their savings and generations of family funds end up in chapters of the Ministry of Finance. Is it expensive gas and electricity? Never mind. People pay more, there will be more VAT revenue. The state is getting richer or it's definitely not losing money, and people are gonna figure it out. But these people will stop spending, and the revenue from the state budget will go down. Ladies and gentlemen, have you realized that by doing nothing in the long run and looking at where we're going, you've made and you're making an increasingly large group of citizens who will be dependent on social benefits? What you have put forward will not solve the problem, and especially not so that people can buy expensive energy and housing, which is actually prescribed by the state thanks to you. We don't live alone in the world, even though some of the coalition's coalition's walls may seem peaceful. We have lessons all around us. If this government were to reduce energy prices as in other countries, there would be a need for an increase in mandatorial spending, and thus an increase in the budget deficit. And I'm not even talking about the fact that most posts are disposable, like there shouldn't be any problems in a month. But I can assure you there will be more months. For comparison, as they have it elsewhere, for example now in Austria, which provides support in one-off, but at EUR 500, a circus of CZK 12,000 per adult, EUR 250 per child and a pensioner of 300, total aid of CZK 6 billion, which is approximately CZK 145 billion. With us, 5,000 crowns for a child under the age of 18. Furthermore, a complex way of filling out the various questionnaires and forms, which will make this minidar even more impossible. And I don't give a damn about the fact that this government, thanks to its experiments with financial aid to refugees, behaves in the final sum to cross-border better than to its own. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity today to allow, with support across the political spectrum, really important assistance to our citizens, who have endured all these crises patiently from the outset, with humility and confidence in the state that will take care of them in difficult moments. Let's approve the kind of help that will really mean something to our people, not just an empty gesture of a campaign that's going on. The help is according to my proposal, which was made here by colleague Brabec, and this is a contribution for all dependent children under the age of 26, paid for six months. Don't let down those who voted for you. Please do not disappoint the citizens of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u35	I, too, thank you, Mr Member, and Mrs Renata Oulehlová, will now be speaking, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u36	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Minister. I'm not going to repeat everything my previous speakers said, because they were all really pointing out things that I think and that are just so that the help is really inadequate. I too am inclined to have this help for all the unemployed children under the age of 26, regardless of the amount of family income, because it is not my opinion to help the high-income families, but my opinion is that the moment we send our families back to the Czech POINTs, to the labour offices, it will cost us all a lot of money, and the campaign that is about to cost us something. [[17.20 hours]] But I'd like to give you an imaginary example. Take it that both parents, for God's sake, are both working at the Labor Office, where we all know that their income isn't really worth anything. Now they have one kid in high school, another kid in college, and automatically, if one kid is in fourth grade, the other in high school, these husbands are not entitled to any help at all. On the other hand, every day in a job that is very demanding, mainly mentally and timely, pays or administers benefits to people who often deliberately avoid work, and these people automatically have everything. They don't have to ask for anything, they actually get everything without having to earn anything in any way, ask for something. Just as we actually condemn our seniors to going after many years of work, after a lifetime's work, - and for them it really is - to actually humiliate themselves, because admitting that I don't have a life's work on energy is really, really sad. So I would certainly be inclined to agree on this for everyone, so that we could really take an example of, like, so many times named Austria. And let's think about the fact that we here, who we support as fast as possible, are people who - and don't even have to do anything - are people who don't all contribute to the system at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u37	Thank you, Madame. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? I don't see anyone, I don't register anyone. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff and rapporteur if you want to take the final floor at this point? Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, let me at least respond this way to some of the things that have been said here, even with a large part of our colleagues and colleagues, we have had this debate at the social committee meeting this morning. Maybe I'll start from the end. The Austrian Government's example has been mentioned here several times. So the Austrian government, when you mentioned here how great it is in what it does in relation to children, is the same step that we are debating here today, and that is the support they have planned this year, and that is roughly CZK 6,250 to ours, the 250 euros. We're talking about 5,000 crowns here. So I don't see much difference in what they do in Austria, what we do in our country. They added an additional amount for adults. To do this, it is necessary to say for the Czech Republic that from 1 January we have increased the discount on the taxpayer. So there are things that just happen here, just maybe like some people don't mention them or mention them on purpose. So when we consider Austria as an example, let us also note that in the Czech Republic, in fact, by analogy, some of these steps are already being implemented here. Then there was this impression, as if the examples that some of them heard - but they didn't quite sound - were said: When someone needs to be in a situation and if the child is already 18 years old, as if it were an impression here, the debate that the parent remains without the help of the state. But that's not true. The Czech Republic has a relatively large network of social support and material emergency. Here today and by increasing the existential and living minimum that has been taking place since 1 April of this year, the state supports almost 400,000 people in this support and we are planning to increase the living and existential minimum from 1 July of this year, so we will also expand the spectrum of people who will be able to apply for these forms of aid, and we will increase the individual amounts of aid in equivalent terms. So please, let us not take it out of the context here, as if the 5,000 crowns were the only instrument of social support in the Czech Republic. It's not like that. Then there were the proposals presented by colleagues - and they have the right to do so, of course - by opposition colleagues, and that is the CZK 5,000 a month by the end of the year. Well, if we count it, it's CZK 64.5 billion. Some ANO officials are walking and criticizing that this government is not responsible enough in relation to the state budget and deficit, and then you come here and put the relevant amendments for 64.5 billion. Two months ago, the chairman of your movement, who did not come to work today, came and said: I am giving here a proposal of twelve measures for CZK 230 billion. Did any of you say here, or Mr. former Prime Minister, Chairman of the YES movement, where does he want to get the funds? I've never heard that before. And it would be fair then also to say: Yes, we asked the children, we asked the students of the fourth year of high school and we asked the students of the first year up to the fifth or sixth year of high schools whether they were willing to pay it, even with the interest. It's not your money, it's not the government's money. This is the money of Czech taxpayers, even those children who are preparing for future occupations. And I have been taught in life to a certain degree of modesty. It's just when we're in a situation where we don't have the money, it just seemed normal to me that we either cut ourselves off at home, or we went and we worked and we went to a part-time job. I know it's not always pleasant to talk about. That the opposition will come and say, "We'll give it every month, and if there's any more time, maybe some part of the opposition will say, "We'll give it every two weeks, the 5,000 crowns." And really we have to answer, what will this state pay for? That didn't come from anybody. Put and plant those proposals and say: Let us add and still - we are doing all these steps to increase the debt of the state budget. So I would also ask for a certain - although it is difficult to ask, I understand that the opposition comes rather rather to make proposals that are presented at first sight as awfully nice, but when we say a), that we should publish, let's say b) where to take it. And if I'm going to go into debt, I'm going to say, here's a 64.5 billion proposal, and here's this proposal for 7.8 billion. There was a question as to whether it was conceptual and how analytically we reached the sum of 5,000 crowns. I was explaining it to the Social Committee today. I'm a little bit asking: How is it conceptually analytical that you propose CZK 5,000 every month without a limit of income by the end of the year? And where's the analytical and conceptual, what's going to happen to those families after January 1st? Is that where you're proposing a sequel, or isn't it going to continue? I'm just asking because on the one hand, we can't criticize and come and say, "We're taking the same amount without any justification, and we're saying it's going to be from now on to the end of the year. That doesn't make sense. So I'll explain again. When we talked about this at the Social Committee meeting, there was a question as to how, for example, we came to the issue of CZK 1 million gross. Yes, it is the equivalent of the average wage in the Czech Republic for two home parents over 12 calendar months. This is about CZK 1 million at today's average wage level in the Czech Republic. I don't know if there are people who take average wages as in the eyes of some of those who are highly-receiving, but many of you here have suggested that, on the contrary, you want to spread it out and say that everyone gets it. I don't know if we here, who are in this House, who are above average income earning by a group of citizens, if we are to automatically get the financial support of 5,000 crowns on our children. I don't think so. I think it's okay that it's booby-trapped. This is where we're called to do direct, targeted aid. If we want to tame and slow inflation, we don't have a choice, even though it hurts us, even though we have to explain to someone that he's already in that category where he's not entitled to help. But if we give everything to everyone and valorize everything about inflation, we do not have a chance to slow down inflation and give people in the Czech Republic hope that inflation will not crush for the next few months or years. Yes, it's not easy to say. Each of us would like to be the bearer of good news, but we don't have much choice. So please nicely, let's also try to look to a greater extent at the outlook for the coming months, by next year, and also take into account the impact of the financial that this will have on the state budget. [[17.30 hours]] I know it doesn't have to be the primary concern of the opposition, it doesn't. But if we are to sit here as politicians who have a certain responsibility, at least even from among the opposition should worry about it elementaryly. I remember many politicians from the YES movement when my predecessor, Minister Maláčová and a colleague from the ČSSD, came in the past period with many proposals, so they were rejected by the then Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and some of the members of the government precisely because the argument was that it was budgetaryly irresponsible that the state budget did not have it. I remember it repeatedly in many discussions that such an argument was made here. So it is good to be consistent and simply be able to hold on to some line of opinion. When the man said that two years ago, from my point of view, it should still be true now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u39	I ask the rapporteur if he wants the final word? [[Yes.]] Please, rapporteur, before I open a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few sentences to conclude. A little while ago, Aleš Juchelka came to see me. I have not completely noticed that these are the final words that maybe they cannot respond to this, so, Aleš, through the President, I apologize and I will try to speak up in these social matters so that we can respond to each other. But it just seems polite to me, too, to say a few words -- maybe I'll repeat myself -- what I said on the social committee. I've seen the opposition role and the coalition role here before, and I admit that some of the critical words are sympathetic to me, because sometimes I feel like you've either listened or copied the speeches that I said here in the last term. On the other hand, the degree of populism I hear here, such as the amendment by fellow Member Richard Brabec, I hope I have not been such a populist in the last parliamentary term. But it's a legitimate thing to do here. I'm sorry that criticism doesn't really have an azimuth. Either we give little, late, too fast or slow, or we indebt too much, so it's very complicated to react. I confess that I remember from the past when I think that we have rightly criticized here that some of the parameters of the proposals you came here with - for example, 80 plus 1,000 crowns in retirement - had no logic. Or when - here I think rightly - some of the moms or dads complained about the 80,000 crowns when they lost their parenting raise. But when this proposal came up - I'm a member of the Civil Democratic Party, I've had a debate that month, both from the right and from the left - it's just not quite easy. But I wanted what we came up with and what the government would come up with so it wouldn't be flat because I don't think it's right. You are partly right that this dose is more or less flat-faced, on the other hand there are limits - 18 years and 1 million crowns gross, which I think is also a matter with which I personally - and I believe that even colleagues from the Civil Democratic Party - ultimately have no problem. I really wanted it to be a systemic dose, and let's face it, it's not a systemic dose. Because even though - and the Minister said it here - we have some 25 benefits today, the social security system is really very robust here, but just not one of the 25 doses, or how many there are together, really doesn't allow for any one-time solutions in the critical situation that we have here. So I'm willing to accept that, too. I wished it was quick. There are differences of opinion, I heard them today too. I think, as far as possible, it's coming to some level where it can be done, when the dose can be paid off during the summer months. Last but not least, I wanted it to have some logic to explain to myself why the million and why the 18 years. To me, the suggestion that it's double the average gross monthly wage, which amounts to CZK 1 million, seems logical. That is why I personally support this proposal, of course, and I felt that even today from the meeting on the Social Committee, the majority opinion is that we will agree on something here, we will see how the vote will end on those - if I have counted correctly - eight amendments. So I thank you in advance, if necessary, for supporting this government bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u41	Thank you. That concludes the final words after the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate where I am registering four applications. First of all, Mrs Lucie Šafránková will speak in a detailed debate, Mr Aleš Juchelka and others will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I hereby declare my three amendments, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. There are 901, 902 and 903 numbers in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u43	I thank you with this. I will now ask Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u44	Thank you very much, too. I just want to start by saying that this is a really unfair debate, because when we have some amendments and our opinions here, the coalition is simply silent, and then it comes out here in the final word, when no one has the chance to sign up, and it asks us the questions that we would like to answer right here in the debate, in the factual remarks that are meant to be made, so that the opinions are simply said here, in some way, and some of them came out. But if we are then hitting the wall here and you are not reacting in any way - and that is mostly up to you, Minister - then it is not fair of you to come out here in the final words, to ask us questions, to push us around here, to set us in line, and we cannot respond to that in any way, because you are not discussing it. You're not discussing the microphone here. You just shut up and then use the final word. In my opinion, it's unfair. [[A round of applause from members of the SPD and YES.]] I sign up for House prints 913, 914 and 915. Please, next time we discuss such important thousands, a fair debate where you can come up with your opinions so that we can respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u45	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mr Richard Brabec to prepare Mr Igor Hendrych. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u46	Thank you for the floor. I will also go back to the proposal, but I will not resist saying a few sentences, because I did not have the opportunity. It's a shame we couldn't respond to the Minister. I am not ashamed - that is for colleague Bauer - for being a populist, because our proposal was really in the direction of getting the money among the people who clearly need it the most, and if they don't get it, we're gonna see other things here, and eventually we're all gonna have to agree that these people deserve the money. That's one thing. The second thing is what fell from the Minister's office. She's a little bit of medicine that you've been tasting, and you've been so generously serving us in the past period, when we were in a covidal situation, and you've been designing dozens and tens of billions of other expenses. We were saying why it wasn't possible, so now we've reversed the roles. But that's not some kind of payback, that's a real suggestion. Now I'd like to sign up for a proposal that's uploaded to the system under 919. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u47	Thank you. Also for the sake of order, to the rapporteur by my means next time. President Alena Schillerová is given priority rights, and then Mr Igor Hendrych will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u48	I'm sorry, I had a meeting here in the building, so I didn't hear the Minister's final word, so I'm cool. I think I'd probably get blood on my head. But from the reaction of his colleagues, colleagues Juchelka and colleagues Brabec, by your means, Mr Vice-President, I import that he apparently opposed our amendments and apparently referred to them as populist. I don't know, I'm responding to what I just heard. Well, I don't know if it's populist what dozens of people write to me every day. I'm sure you do, too, Minister. A whole bunch of them tell me you're not responding. I get the most on Messenger every day -- because people don't have e-mails or, of course, they don't have contact with me, so they text me on Facebook contact -- there's an incredible amount of news every day. Why doesn't Mommy have a single mom where she's 20 years old? I'm writing, please contact the MPSV. We're going to make an amendment, but we don't have a majority, I'm writing it off. She writes to me again: I wrote, but the minister does not respond. Or maybe they'll send me a kind of bureaucratic, totally austere answer that you certainly didn't write. [[17.40 hours]] So it's what my fellow speaker Richard Brabec said. We remember that we had discussions here about the compensation bonus, and that and that and that and the brokers, and yet I listened. I listened, and you often know that I accepted the amendment, or I tried to solve it, the problems. Then we listened again before the election that we were handing it out from the helicopter. I remember the stories you read to me here. And go tell those people, you told me here, go tell them, the businessman who didn't get it because he didn't get it because that parameter or that parameter. So here's where I'm going to tell you, go tell that single mom. Go tell her she's just not gonna get it, 'cause you guys have chosen an age criterion unlike all other social benefits, where the criteria are child-infested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u49	Thank you. With priority right now, Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u50	Thank you. I am the person who usually conducts the debate, but it is not written anywhere that the minister cannot sum up the discussion in the final word. I also remember many times when this was done in the last parliamentary term. I usually try to have a debate. I have also tried to take a step here after the debate with the opposition, which we actually took on the government last week, so that this proposal would be discussed here in a state of legislative emergency so that amendments could be made. So please, I'm begging you that there's some sort of non-communication or unwillingness to act together. But I'll take the liberty of responding to one thing. If it has been said here that one of us has made a proposal for tens of billions of crowns, I will ask, through Mr President, that Mr Richard Brabec - it does not have to be today, I will wait until he has time - to prove to me when I have proposed proposals for tens of billions of crowns or someone else from the opposition. The only proposal I proposed for KDU-ČSL, which we can identify from the category of tens of billions of crowns, was the proposal to increase the discount on the taxpayer, on which we agreed together and which was distributed within two years. I think that was the only proposal in the category of tens of billions of crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u51	I also thank you, and now, I am sorry, I am still sorry, Mrs Jana Pastuchová's factual comment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u52	Thank you. I'll just be a moment. I don't think the Minister here, through you, has been here. I really want to open up one more question about the alternating care, if it's really the first person to come, the first person to talk. If it's two kids, it's 10,000, and in that family, it can make a really big mess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u53	Thank you and now duly signed in by Mr Igor Hendrych. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. I have already justified my amendment under number 910 here, and I have already spoken to it, so I am applying to it, and I assume that it may be a problem to approve our amendments, but let us try to think about it if we get to my last one. It's a minimalist proposal, it's a compromise to a large extent, and I think there's a really big difference between a careless high school kid and an unaided college kid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u55	Thank you. I just want to ask: Did you say the number of the amendment didn't escape me? You'd better repeat that, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u56	I said 910 should be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u57	910, thank you, I wrote it down for the record. So I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone. In that case, I am ending the detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. Whether the rapporteur or the minister wants a final word? It's not like that. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. Eight amendments have been put together and, as the Chamber of Deputies, we must decide at this point whether we will immediately continue our third reading or whether we will give a break on the processing and writing and handing out of these amendments to all Members and Members. I don't see that there's a suggestion that we interrupt this point. In that case, rapporteur, please, if you want to say your position on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u58	Mr Vice-President, just a short time. I have these amendments, there are eight of them, of course I know them, because we discussed them on the Social Committee this morning. Moreover, there is just an amendment to Mr Richard Brabec's proposal. However, a little while ago, I was asked by legislation to prepare and process enough for an hour's break. So he's gonna go on with the others, and then we're gonna go back to it, or like we've always done, the model. We interrupt, there'll be more points and then we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u59	So just to be clear, legislation needs an hour to process amendments, and if they do not process themselves, can we just proceed with the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u60	I, Mr Vice-President, admit I don't have the procedure. I guess it'd be worth it to set it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u61	Okay, I'm registering. In that case, I'm still registering two proposals. First President Výborný and then President Jakob, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. On the basis of the agreement from the political grémia, I would ask that we keep the procedure as agreed, that is, we will go on the block with all four press in the legislative emergency at second readings, and then we will be able to vote and discuss in the third reading when the proposed amendments are being drawn up if they are to the press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-14-ps2021-025-05-001-144.u63	Okay. I'm asking if a colleague, Chairman Jakob, wants to talk? No? In that case, I am interrupting this point. I will read the apologies that have arrived, and that is today between 5:30 and 7:00 p.m. until the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Jan Hofmann apologizes. Furthermore, between 19 o'clock and the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Michal Zuna apologizes, today between 17 o'clock and the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mrs Helena Válková apologizes, and even today or, respectively, from 14 to 15. 7. For family reasons, Mrs Lucie Potůčková apologises. [[6?]] And so I, before discussing another point, which is a government bill amending Act No. 67/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by the law, it is the House press 222, shortened negotiations, we would in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. [[244?]] I open the debate and ask who is reporting to the general debate at this point? If no one reports, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 67/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended by Act No. 67/2022 Coll., House Press 244, in a short hearing." We will be voting on the fact that there are conditions for discussion in the accelerated negotiations. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 86, 163 Members and Members registered, for proposal 145, against no one. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. And now I'm opening a point number.
