ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-010-085.u1	85. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of San Marino on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Rome on 27 January 2021/- second reading I ask that the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka take the floor again. At the same time, thank you for taking the position of rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-010-085.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to present to you a treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of San Marino on the prevention of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Rome in January 2021. The Czech Republic currently has international agreements to prevent double taxation with more than 90 countries in the world, but San Marino is not yet among them. There are currently no contractual relationships between the Czech Republic and San Marino except for two exceptions. An exception is the area of information exchange. [[12.00 hours]] Of course, the possibilities of cooperation with San Marino are limited due to the size of the market there. Historically, the Czech Republic has only negotiated contracts governing the exchange of information in tax matters and, after a certain period of time, when San Marino has clearly removed the label of tax havens, the Czech Republic has agreed to negotiate a contract for the avoidance of double taxation. San Marino represents a number of options for Czech investors and exporters. The most important items of Czech exports include electric generators, beverage glass or table glass products. In view of the fact that San Marino is a major tourist destination, their prospective export is, for example, souvenirs and cut glass products. This comprehensive tax contract covers the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income and property. It also provides for basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both countries as well as the principle of non-discrimination. The contract shall allow for informal settlement of disputes arising from its implementation, where appropriate, while ensuring the relevant exchange of information between the competent authorities of both States. The contract will also increase the legal certainty of investors in both countries, creating space for Czech business entities and thus help develop mutual economic relations. The overall contribution resulting from the application of the present contract will depend on the future development of the various forms of economic cooperation. In this context, it can be noted that the balance of mutual trade is positive from the point of view of the Czech Republic in the long term, as the value of exports from the Czech Republic exceeds the value of imports. The mutual trade exchange in 2021 exceeded CZK 127 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agree to ratify this Treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-010-085.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House Press 120. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-010-085.u4	Thank you, Madam President, and I wish all my colleagues a nice noon. The Foreign Committee dealt with this press at its 7th meeting on 31 March 2022. By its resolution, it recommends: The Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution which I will read subsequently, and also authorised me to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this government proposal. The resolution approved by the Foreign Committee, and I will ask Madam President to vote on it in a moment, is as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, which was signed in Rome on 27 January 2021." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-010-085.u5	Thank you very much. At this point, I would like to open a debate in which no one is registered in writing. I'm going to ask at this point if anyone is reporting from place to place to debate? I look around, I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. I will ask if there is an interest in the final word of the petitioner, that is, the Minister. Mr. Secretary, is there interest? It's not. The rapporteur? Also. Thank you very much. So we will proceed to the vote on the proposed resolution, which has already been announced here. I'll read it again so everyone knows what we're going to vote on. So: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of San Marino on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Rome on 27 January 2021." We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Thank you. In the vote number 164, 131 Members were enrolled, 102 were in favour, no one opposed, 29 abstained, and the proposal was adopted, so he was given consent, and I am done discussing this point. Now we're getting to the point number
