ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u1	77. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interpelations first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. We would now move on to the interventions in question, and I would like to give the floor to Mr Radek Koten, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, as is already coming from the point of my interpelation or from that name, we should address the problem of jumping up energy charges in the Czech Republic to the Czech citizen. I do not think that the government has done any other than communication so far, and I think that there is relatively little time left to respond to jump price growth since 1 January. Last year you did not accept at least some partial solution in the form of a reduction in VAT on energy. However, since your government wants to support the so-called Green Deal, I think we're going to fall even worse with energy prices. So I would have a few suggestions on how this could be handled. One of the proposals to address this is to step out of the emission allowances system, because it only serves here for multinational companies to buy them, such as US pension funds, to improve cash flow for American pensioners, but it certainly does not contribute to Europe or the clean environment. Further exit from energy trading, which was produced in power plants paid by the Czech taxpayer, stock exchange trading in Leipzig, Germany, because if the energy produced in the Czech Republic would be sold directly to citizens, then the energy would be for completely different money. Quite a lot would therefore be solved by direct sales, and unfortunately, the European Union is here by selling it on the stock market, rather than helping. So if it's not an energy issue in the sense that we're supposed to import coal from Australia or fuel somewhere from the other side of the world, then I'd very much like to get an answer. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Mr Petr Fiala, has the floor now. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me make just one comment. I have, of course, been involved very often in the last eight years by interpelling, and I have asked some questions myself in the context of the interpellation, but here for the first time I stand as Prime Minister and I will, of course, try my best to answer all the questions asked. I'm asking for some kind of indulgence, our government has only been in power for five weeks, so I'm sure I won't know everything perfectly, but it will gradually improve so that we can conduct an interpelation here and in such a way that citizens can learn something. I thank Mr Koten for the question concerning one of the most important problems we are facing now, and these are energy prices. Energy prices are, of course, a problem not only in the Czech Republic but throughout Europe. In the Czech Republic, it is even worse that some energy suppliers have ceased their activities here, and the impact on many families, households, was much stronger than elsewhere. We've actually been dealing with this issue right from the very beginning of our government, and I'm sure you're wrong when you say we didn't do anything, that would be wrong. We have agreed to help people who are affected by the increase in energy, we have amended the Act on State Social Support, a contribution to housing, and we have improved the opportunity to use the form of emergency immediate assistance. The State Social Support Act, which is intended to address problems with high energy prices, is very important because it makes it possible in cases where the household, given its economic situation, fails to manage aid with the projected increase in housing costs, it will receive assistance in the form of this aid. The amendment was, as I'm sure you'll recall, presented in a legislative emergency, passed through the Chamber of Deputies, approved by the Senate. And this legislative measure was - and I would also like to remind you, and I am also telling those who are watching us to know that they are being taken care of by our government if they have gone into energy poverty, and they have the help. In addition to the amendment, the legislative journey, a methodological instruction was issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which will simultaneously make available for a larger range of households and other benefits, and this is extraordinary immediate assistance. We have, as you can see, used tools that already exist, but we've modified them. We are not going the way of any experiments, but we are going the way that will actually help those households specifically, those people who are at risk of energy poverty. We do not do this in the form of general measures like the previous government, for example by changing the rate or abolishing the rate of value added tax on energy. Our way is more advantageous and clearly better for citizens because it is addressed. It helps those who really got into an emergency situation, but it doesn't exactly interfere with those who don't need help from the state at the moment, because they may have fixed their prices at the beginning of last year or from before when prices were low. This is what I think is the right way: direct assistance to specific people who, as a result of the failure of the supplier or price growth, are entering or on the edge of energy poverty, and we have taken concrete measures to help these people. However, this is not just about individuals and households, we have also expanded the Programme Guarantee for entrepreneurs, when entrepreneurs and companies will be able to apply for a loan with a state guarantee of up to CZK 2 million, with a guarantee of up to 80 percent under the extension of the Programme Guarantee 2015-2023, which is provided by the National Development Bank. So from what I've said, it's clear that we've taken concrete steps and we're trying to help citizens and businesses. [[President: Mr President, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u5	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and ask the honourable Member now if he wants to ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question. I see you do, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u6	Dear Prime Minister, thank you. However, I would ask a few more questions, because, for example, Hungary agreed on a bilateral gas supply contract for $270 per 1 000 cubic meter of gas. I think the price is fairly fair. They've got the contract a few years in advance. However, we do not plan such a thing, and as far as the purchase of gas by our energy companies is concerned, we are buying it for $1,700 for 1,000 cc's of gas, which is a five-time price, so, of course, these alms, on which people will be standing in line somewhere to manage social security, will not solve it entirely. And as for the import of other commodities, such as gas or coal from Australia to Ostrava, I do not think that it really is such a good example of how to do environmental policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u7	Thank you for the supplementary question and I will ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u8	Too bad we don't have time for a longer discussion here, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to talk to you about this, because of course - and you know this - the matter has a short-term aspect, I answered you how we helped Czech citizens and what we are doing to cope with energy poverty, then, of course, there is the long-term aspect, and that is what the Czech Republic is doing to ensure that energy prices are long-term reasonable and do not cause problems for both Czech companies and Czech citizens. I hope that our intention, our goal, is that we want affordable energy prices, that we agree on this here. However, the proposals you come up with, how I understood them in your first short performance, that wouldn't solve anything. If we step out of the stock market, we won't get electricity if the Czech Republic doesn't produce enough of it. The precisely connected energy market guarantees enough energy at times when we are not self-sufficient. Of course, emission allowances are part of the problem, which is why I agree with you, and that is why our government, and I must say that the previous government, too, has tried to do something about the emission allowances on the European system, but it is unrealistic to get out of that system. Plus, it doesn't help to drop prices, because that price is caused by a whole range of factors, but you know that. Of course, we will push for a more flexible response from the European Union on this matter. We have been actively involved in the taxonomy debate, because it is vital for the Czech Republic that the core is considered a purely supported source and the gas has also been recognised as a transitional source. The future of Czech energy is definitely at the heart. We must speed up the completion of the nuclear blocks in Dukovany, consider Temelín and take further and further steps to be truly energy-sufficient and the price of energy for Czech citizens and companies was reasonable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u9	Thank you. Before I pass on the floor to the next MP for an interview, I would like to read two apologies. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes, today from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for reasons of work, and Minister Bek is also excused from 14.30 to 18 o'clock for reasons of work. Mr Jan Síla, who was drawn in second place, will now speak with the next interview, and Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister, let me interpel you and I. It's going to be about health care. The vaguely formulated government programming statement also does not lead to a health chapter. From several passwords that can be interpreted in different ways, I have not found mention of the main problems of our health care, such as the catastrophic lack of health professionals or the availability of health care in some regions, especially in those border regions. These are mainly branches of dentistry, orthopedics and others, where there is, of course, a big problem with the number of specialists who retire, and with a high age average. But what I am particularly interested in is even more important than Solomon's formulation of the sentence of the programme statement, and I quote: "We are going to start a discussion on the need and appropriateness of price competition for health insurance companies." Unfortunately, behind this euphemist statement can hide opening doors for the commercialization of health care. Could this be a continuation of the efforts of right-wing governments, personalized by Mr. Julínek and Mr. Bachelor Šnajdr? Before asking my own questions, I'll explain why I think so. The price competition of health insurance companies can only work under the law defined by the so-called "health care standard." I'm talking about health services, not hotel services or aesthetic dental care. If you want to define a standard, then you also have to define an above-standard health service. My question is: Are you preparing the privatisation of health insurance companies as a first step towards establishing controlled care and individual accounts for health insurance companies, as your predecessors from the ODS planned? [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for presenting the interview. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. Health is an extremely important topic. It is one of the areas that we will have to deal with in the coming years. On the one hand, the koronavirový crisis showed incredible strength, strengths of Czech health care. These are, in particular, doctors, nurses, and other medical staff who worked extremely professionally, at the edge of self - sacrifice, and in an extraordinary way helped sick fellow citizens. For that, they all deserve our great thanks. At the same time, however, pandemics have also shown some reserves or weaknesses in this system. It has once again proved that without additional financial injections, the system will not be able to cope with major crises, and we must also address these issues. You have also touched on the long-term problems of Czech health care, and this is a lack of medical personnel. In the end, our successful functioning system also came across this at the time of the coronavirus crisis, when it was often shown that the deficiencies were not in material equipment, they are not in the number of beds and beds of acute care, but are often caused precisely by the fact that there are not enough doctors and not enough nurses. That's what we've been talking about in the Czech Republic for a long time. Such steps and such changes need to be made, not only in the area of motivation, but also in the field of education and postgraduate education, to change this situation. It is also a task for health insurance companies to distribute quality health care throughout the Czech Republic to help us create. These are things that I'm sure you can't solve from day to day. We've known about them for a long time, they should have been dealt with by previous governments. We will, of course, be intensive about this. But in order to disprove your concerns and respond to the sentences from our programming statement that you mentioned, we will begin a discussion on the need and suitability for competition between health insurance companies and the introduction of voluntary insurance for health services that are not covered by public health insurance. To this end: all these changes, of course, will be made in the form of laws. It will be possible to be directly involved in the debate on the concrete form of improvement of Czech health care. The discussions are at the beginning, we want to have a debate on the best possible option. The goal here isn't to push through a tight majority of decisions that won't work. Those experiences are here in the Czech Republic after all. We want to achieve some reasonable optimal compromise that will help patients to improve the quality and availability of healthcare and help the entire health system. So I can assure you that the Department of Health will discuss with the public the lay, professional and opposition so that we can achieve a good result. [[14.50 hours]] The fact that when we talk about using private funds in the financing of health care, I want to say: none of these considerations can lead and will in no way lead to a reduction in the standard of health services covered by public health insurance at present. This is absolutely clear and health care - and, ladies and gentlemen, who are watching us outside this hall, do not be alarmed - health care will continue to be free, as stated in the Constitution and as prescribed by the law. Although the health system of the Czech Republic is at a high level, it is able to provide affordable quality care without distinction to all patients, and that is a great advantage and we are all happy that it is, so it is necessary to look into the near future. As part of the government's programme statement in the field of health, it is precisely the emphasis on strengthening private funds, in which to use, and let us also admit it, we are completely on the tip of the OECD countries. And that is the thing that we want and can change after mutual discussion and after finding the most appropriate solution, which I hope will be enjoyed by a broader political consensus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u13	I thank the Prime Minister and now I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question? Yes, he wants to ask a follow-up question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u14	I would just like to point out how you want to achieve this price competition for health insurance companies, unless you provide a legal standard of health care and an overstandard of health care, because in no other way can price competition be achieved between health insurance companies, and the establishment of a standard and above-standard basically determines the double-trackity of health for the rich and the poor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u15	Thank you, Ambassador, for the supplementary question and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u16	The supplementary question concerned the second thesis. I hope that the first, in terms of voluntary insurance, I have responded to the Member's full satisfaction. As far as the price competition of health insurance companies is concerned, we just want to start the discussion, which is clearly written. In fact, thank you for opening it with this form. The government's main objective in this matter is quality and available health care for all without regional differences, and accessibility is the key word. This means that all the sick get the best care possible so that they are not disadvantaged because of the financial situation, but also because of the social situation or place of residence. We want to strengthen the efficiency and transparency of this system, and we want patients to feel those changes as positively as possible. Price competition should lead to the effectiveness of the current health insurance system. I think we can agree, Mr. Ambassador, that the health insurance system now has its problems, even if the framework works, let's say structural. There is one large General Health Insurance Company, there are other smaller insurance companies, each of those insurance companies has a different structure of insured people, and we just want to achieve this - and let's talk about how and how the degree of competition of those insurance companies will lead to this goal - so that this does not affect patients, so that it does not affect the availability of healthcare, so that it does not have a long-term effect on its quality. As I was saying, thank you, actually, you've already been involved in this debate, and I'm sure we'll lead it in the attic... [[President: Mr President, time.]] ...the health committee of this House and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u17	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We have dealt with the interview under order number 2 and Mr Radim Fiala, who has been drawn with order number 3, will speak with another interview and Mrs Alena Schillerová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Prime Minister, perhaps you will ask why I am addressing you with an agricultural issue and not directly addressing the Minister of Agriculture on this matter. But I am convinced of that, and I want you yourself to be the prime minister of this country to know what is going on in agriculture, and I, as a citizen of this country, do not care what we eat here in a few years and how much we will pay for it. The current government has decided, that is, your government, Prime Minister, that 23 percent of direct payments will be paid to the first 150 hectares of farmers. The Czech Republic is the only country of the European Union to provide such a high amount for a redistributive payment. Other countries like Germany and the like with the exception of Lithuania are about 10, 12 percent. Now, just let me say briefly, please, what I think your change in the grant rules will do here. First, it will create an uncompetitive environment for Czech farmers, because this will completely distinguish the system of subsidies from the rest of the European Union. On the other hand, larger farms that have balanced plant and animal production will be losing support. Thirdly, there will be an increase in food prices. The most visible impact for citizens will be a sharp rise in food prices, and we have already said that after the energy crisis, there will be a food crisis, and you are contributing to this. It will also reduce food self-sufficiency. Since 1989 we have been going down constantly with food self-sufficiency, so we already call it food security. That's what you're breaking, too. Who feeds the nation in the case of pandemics? There's a lot of other questions. Our environment will get worse. We'll import everything from South America. The number of jobs will decrease, unemployment will increase. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]] So I could keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for the intervention, and I am now giving the floor to Prime Minister Petr Fial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for the question. You are touching another important topic, agriculture and the ability of Czech agriculture to fulfil all functions, to be competitive and to provide quality products and food to Czech citizens. This is definitely important and I believe that this is our common goal. But when you mentioned the agricultural policy and the changes that the government is making in this area, I want to explain one thing. I'm not sure everyone knows what it means to redistribute, or pay the first hectares. This is a special aid which is paid to the first 150 hectares of land managed and paid to all without distinction, i.e. small, medium and large, to all without distinction. But, of course, its aim is to support, above all, the smaller ones who do not have economies of scale and focus on more demanding crops such as fruit or vegetables. And 150 hectares is already in itself a large farm in the context of farms, not in the Czech Republic, but in the European Union. I would like to remind myself here, and it is also important to tell the public about the numbers you said that while the average size of the farm in the Czech Republic is about 130 hectares, the average size of the farm in the European Union is 16 hectares. And this enlargement of farms does not stop in the Czech Republic, it has not stopped under previous governments and has grown. Over the past 20 years, the average size of the farm in the Czech Republic has increased by 30 hectares and we sometimes hear: Well, this is a global trend, it helps the competitiveness of our agriculture, and at the same time we hear how uncompetitive our farmers are, and so on and so forth. That doesn't add up. The concentration of farms is not only advantageous, it also poses certain risks. By buying one such huge farm, someone can gain access to tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural land and no one can guarantee that I accept your rhetoric, no one will guarantee that the food on this area grown will be exported to Asia or elsewhere, and there will be a shortage in the Czech Republic at a critical moment. On the contrary, with a larger number of smaller farms, this risk is significantly reduced. And I think it is in everyone's interest, it is in the interests of Czech citizens. [[15.00 hours]] And now a few more words about the strategic plan you mentioned and what our government... and the adjustments our government has taken. Our main objective is to level the conditions - this is important - to level the conditions between large agri-concernels, which have been favoured over smaller and medium-sized farmers and food producers over the past period. The conditions weren't equal, and we need to straighten them out. Just to imagine, and this is also important for the public: CZK 2 000 per hectare lower than what farms over 2 000 hectares have gained. [[Over 100 acres?]] And all I'm talking about is the payments from the first pillar, not the investment subsidies from the second pillar, which draw mostly large farms. Well, this isn't exactly a good situation. I repeat again: 2 000 per hectare lower farm up to 100 hectares than farm over 2 000 hectares. [[Over 100 acres?]] And this is a need to straighten up and create conditions for us to have smaller and medium-sized farms that produce quality foods that are Czech, which serve Czech citizens. So the resulting form of 23 percent redistribution is a compromise, and it is a reasonable compromise. Representatives of private farmers and family farms demanded 30% of the cropping and representatives of large agroconcerns wanted 10 percent and no cropping. In the end, everyone had to retreat and we reached a reasonable compromise. Redistribution is larger than it has been, it is not the ceiling of direct payments, it is the ceiling of investment subsidies so that one firm cannot obtain more than tens and hundreds of millions of crowns per year. That sounds like a good decision to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. And now I will ask Mr Radim Fiala if he wants to ask an additional question? I see he's coming to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, the fact that the average farm in the European Union is 16 hectares is true, but let me warn you that you are the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, that you are not the Prime Minister of the European Union, and you must take into account the specifics that the Czech Republic has, and I think this is the way to treat it. But I guess we didn't understand each other in parameters, because I don't think you answered a lot of those things. I'll send you a written interview where I'll give you a thorough explanation, write you specific data, and I'll be happy if you answer my written interview. But thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for an additional question. At this point, I will ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u24	I gave the numbers and the comparison of the size of the farms on purpose, because it's important. We don't move in the air, we're not isolated, and our agricultural policy isn't. We're not playing this game. Everyone who moves in agriculture knows how it is and how these things are connected. We are trying to do this, and that is important, and that is my responsibility as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, so that our farmers are competitive, so that we also have quality life in the countryside, so that we have good food here, so that the food is affordable, and so on and so forth. And we will achieve that by not destroying small and medium-sized farmers, but by creating conditions for them to survive. And unlike you, Mr President, I see no sense in the fact that they will have great advantages and the little ones will be disadvantaged. How do you help Czech countryside and Czech farmers? I don't think so. You're just recording some other interests. It's not like that. And as for the numbers, yesterday, the Department of Agriculture issued an electronic calculator where any farmer can calculate the support he will be entitled to in the coming years. So don't be haunted, look at it, precisely in detail you will find out on the basis of the parameters of your own farm, according to the crops you grow, the animals you keep, according to the regime in which you manage what you will be entitled to, or, on the contrary, what you might seek as a farmer if you would, for example, change the management regime in a more environmentally friendly manner. I think the calculator will help the situation very much, distract doubts, various rumors, various hauntings, and specify the numbers that have been circulating in space. And I think most businesses are going to be surprised that they're going to make a difference, and that this decision is a much better form of agricultural policy than the government of Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u25	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We have dealt with the interview under order number 3 and another interview will be performed by Mrs Alena Schillerová, who was drawn in fourth place. Ambassador Patrik Nacher will be ready. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u26	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, our country is still in the budget provisional. From your Minister of Finance, Mr Stanjura, but we have been repeatedly assured from you that the budgetary provisional will have virtually no impact. From your words, it seemed that no one would actually notice this condition. I have repeatedly warned that there will be huge problems with the budgetary make-up, and now my words are confirmed. Every day people turn to me, but also the various institutions that have a fundamental impact on the budgetary provisional, and new information is constantly emerging, which is not possible in the budgetary provisional, where the promised or approved finances are waiting in vain. One day, it's to pay for an advance on a covid that could save lives, sometimes it's to limit the payment of subsidies for renovation monuments, but the problem, as you know, will also be with the drawing of other and other grant titles. Specifically, the huge problem is covido programs. I will forgive myself for saying what an irresponsible step I warned you about, and I also offered a better solution for you, but I am now interested in B: How long will the budgetary make-up last? We have heard that this will be the end of March, but will the budget actually be approved by then or the draft budget approved? Above all, what will be limited during the budget commission? Can you tell the areas that you already know specifically about today that there is a problem with funding? I think it would also be fair to those involved in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u27	Thank you, Mrs Alena Schillerová, for the interview. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. Well, you didn't mention a single case of the problems that supposedly the citizens or institutions that are looking at you have with the budget make-up. I would recommend to those who may feel a problem, and perhaps it is only an information problem, to contact the Finance Minister and the Ministry of Finance, because they will soon find that there are virtually no problems with the payment of the proper things at the time of the budgetary commission. Let me just remind you, let's not be alarmed by the provisional budget, the appropriations for the month of January were allocated at the rate of one twelfth of last year's budget. Everyone can manage it, all the planned things can be paid off, so we don't have any signals about any more fundamental problems here. [[15.10 hours]] But why do we have a budget commission here? This is important to say: because the budget of the previous government, the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and the Government of Andrej Babiš, was prepared here, which is dangerous and unacceptable for the Czech Republic in terms of the interests of its citizens. Czech citizens, Czech companies are facing historically high inflation, it is expensive for citizens. Economists agree that inflation is largely or roughly half that I should not exaggerate, caused by the irresponsible management of the previous government, by spending money that we had to borrow. And if we want to tame this expensive thing, if we want to help people not to devalue their money, the government has to do something about it, and it has to start saving. We inherited the draft budget with another huge deficit, and I don't want us to have - and we can't afford to have - a budget with a deficit of CZK 377 billion or whatever it was. We have to get the deficit below CZK 300 billion to control inflation. And that's why we have a budget provisional. Last year, the deficit of CZK 420 billion, and now we have to go into such a deficit? Well, we can't do that, because we would devalue the citizens' money, it would get more expensive, and we just don't want that. The budget is bad for both citizens and the Czech Republic as a whole. In these three years alone, the debt of every citizen, including children and seniors, would increase by CZK 100,000. And who's gonna pay for that? Well, that's what people are gonna pay! They're going to pay from their taxes, they're going to pay from their future, and that's just something we can't participate in to this extent. The aim of the state is to choose only the essentials of what it needs for its operation, not to spend money in this way. That's not the role of the state, and we have to do something here in this case. In order to answer your question or the second question that was raised: a budget make-up which does not actually affect those payouts is a better solution than to approve the wrong budget in a hurry, which was prepared here. The budgetary provisional is running until the end of March, negotiations are currently under way on the new budget. We are having these negotiations very intensively, and we are ready to discuss the budget in the government at the beginning of February, sometime in the first half of February, so that we can then present it to the Chamber of Deputies, and our aim is still that the new budget should start to apply from 1 April at the latest. We've said that repeatedly, three months of provisionals are tolerable. We're not happy about this. We would rather be here in normal terms, with a normal budget approved, but simply to take over the budget you have prepared for us, that would be completely irresponsible, irresponsible to citizens, because we would only support further inflation increases and do nothing to tame inflation and thus tame the cost. [[President: Mr President, time!]] And we will not commit such irresponsibleness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u29	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the President of the Alena Schillerová Group if he wants to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u30	Yes, I certainly do. Thank you, Prime Minister, even though I have not learned anything new than what I have heard many times and what has been said several times from your mouth and from your finance minister's mouth, I will ask a more specific question: When will the businessmen of the covido programs come? Don't tell me you don't know about their complaints, that you don't know about the number of outputs in the media space, that businessmen are affected, that you don't know that in the center of Prague, for example, if you go after the center of Prague exceptionally, that you don't see half-empty restaurants, that they have problems with culture, theatres - so I'm asking, when will they be, if there's no problem with the budget makeshift? I ask, why is the Antivirus type B suspended, for which the money was released by our government and was ready? Those are my specific questions. So please try - I'll interpel you about inflation next time, we'll definitely have an hour's debate on the budget here when you present it. [[President: Madam President, time!]] Then try to answer these specific questions. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u31	Thank you for the additional question and I will ask for the answer and response of Prime Minister Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u32	I answered, Madam President, what you asked me, that means how long it will take to make the budget provisional. I made that clear to you with clear data, and even some kind of government approval schedule. Then you asked me if - I think everyone heard it - there were any problems with paying out some things for individuals and companies in a budget commission. You didn't say anything specific. I told you there are no problems in general. I told you the amount we released. I told you how to proceed. I told you why we couldn't approve the budget. So I've answered everything, and I think I've answered quite clearly. As far as compensation is concerned, some programs are running. We didn't stop the entire Antivirus, you know, but we interrupted, delayed or suspended Antivirus B precisely because of a question that doesn't concern the budget and budget provisionals, but the effectiveness of the subsidies and the need for the subsidies, and we said so, we also discussed this with the social partners. I'm not saying that all the representatives of the business unions were thrilled. Some really wanted to continue this program. But Antivirus A, it doesn't concern him at all. And, of course, we are debating what form of effective help to those affected by some of the decisions you remember, such as bans on Christmas markets. And those who, together with the mayors, didn't just name it some sort of Advent or other market, they really got into a lot of trouble, because they've been getting ready to make the sales in the long run, and now they're gonna get the money for their livelihoods in the Christmas markets. And when the Christmas markets were banned, they're people - that's a typical example of an entrepreneur who needs help... [[Prime Minister, time for your answer is up.]] ... because the state here forbade something that these people were counting on. We are preparing this programme, and we will approve these people for the next or next government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u33	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister. This is how we dealt with the interview under order number 4 and Mr Patrik Nacher, who was drawn in fifth place, will speak with another interview and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, do you know where I just came from? I came from the council of the capital city of Prague, where the biggest conflict so far was between representatives of the ODS and the Pirates, directly the Mayor. And I'm saying this here because we're getting into a contrast here, where, at central level, you guys supported today's election committee decision for me a non-discriminatory future election to the Board of Directors of the VZP. I'd like to ask you about that. Today, the electoral commission reviewed its proposal to elect members and alternate members of the Administrative and Supervisory Board of the VZP. For outsiders to understand this: the government nominates 10 members and the House 20 according to the proportional system to the Board of Directors of the VZP. The proportional system is a table, as I showed here when we voted for the President and Vice-President, and then later the Pirate Party noticed that it had no nominee, because at the number of 20, that means the movement YES 8, ODS 4, STAN 3, KDU 2, SPD 2, TOP 09 1 and the Pirates didn't, so suddenly they realized it, so they formed the coalitions. So not individual parties anymore, but coalitions, and then it starts coming out with ODS, KDU, SPD, TOP 09 the same number, at Pirstan 4, so I assume that STAN will split up one place and give it to the pirát. If all the other coalitions were there, it would be 7 - 7 - 4 - 2. So my question goes to whether or not this is, and it doesn't concern you or the ODS directly, but your coalition partner, if this is the new political culture, where supposedly it's not about functions, it's about transparency and it's about predictability. And in this case, it doesn't feel that way, so don't let anyone get mad at me. Thank you for the space and thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u35	Thank you for keeping time. This was the presentation of an oral interview by Patrik Nacher and I ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I will try to respond in some way to your interpellation concerning the General Health Insurance Corporation, but I must confess that I do not know what happened on the committee today or yesterday, and I do not have this information, and I have not been able to be informed in any way, so I will find out the information and then I will be able to give you a competent answer to that question as well. I presume this is mainly a matter for MPs. But I will just take advantage of this opportunity and your question to say what you indicated that under the General Health Insurance Act, 10 members of the General Health Insurance Board are appointed by the Government, i.e. it is in the competence of the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Health, and the other 20 you are talking about are elected by the Chamber of Deputies on a proportional basis. A relative principle is certainly good to follow, because it is undoubtedly right to be on the Governing Board The general health insurance companies were also represented by representatives of the opposition, correspondingly. Of course, for the part that is appointed by the government, usually and logically by the Minister of Health, there are mostly people who have some experience with the organisation of health care, the provision of health services or the financing of health care. Together, the Governing Board should form an expert body, but it is also capable of creating a form of political control. I would like - and I will also look at what happened on the committee, what you mentioned here - I would really like the representatives of the Government, but also representatives of the Chamber of Deputies to carry out their activities on the board of directors responsibly, with an interest in the development of the General Health Insurance Corporation and taking into account, in particular, the interests of its insured people. That's why the board of directors exists. And when I look into the past of the intervention of the previous government, namely the Minister of Health, who pushed the General Health Insurance Agency into publishing a brochure with a photo of then Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and sending all insured persons during the parliamentary term, I do not consider such steps and such management and such pressure on the General Health Insurance Agency to be something worthy of the political culture of the Czech Republic and what we should tolerate. We need to realise that the General Health Insurance Corporation is dealing with the funds of citizens, i.e. insured people, and this is not small. The VZP flows through more than most ministries during the year. And I think that the example that I have set - but I could also give other examples - shows us clearly how important it is for those who are nominated for the General Health Insurance Board to be aware of the responsibility towards citizens, to insured people, to the Czech health sector and to behave accordingly and to prevent any pressure in favour of any private or other interests. This is the right way, whether elected by the Chamber of Deputies to the Board of Directors of the General Health Insurance Corporation, I hope that they will answer my call, which is directed towards all new members, whether elected by the Chamber of Deputies or appointed by the Government, to all members of the General Health Insurance Corporation, so that they will keep this in mind and thus perform their service towards insured people, towards citizens, to all those who receive the services of the General Health Insurance Agency, but who dispose of the funds of Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u37	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. At this point, I will ask Mr Patrik Nacher if he wants to ask an additional question. I see he's going to the speaker's desk. Your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u38	Thank you for the floor. I will add that, because the second part of the resolution is that the electoral commission is declaring a new deadline for the submission of proposals. In other words, at this point in time, the decision means that the authorities are not fulfilled and the VZP leadership is not elected, which means that it is now as if it is out of control. That's just for shaking first. Secondly, there is a need for a legal analysis, because there are nominated MPs in a proportional system, not coalitions, to the Board of Directors of the VZP. The fact that coalitions are being formed in the elections in the Chamber of Deputies is possible, at least what I have been researching so far is new. But the thing that bothers me the most is that the nomination was made here once, that's the problem. I've already accepted that on Monday you perform as clubs, on Tuesday as a coalition, but this is where the election has been made, and here you rethink it and it's coming back... because somebody didn't add it up right at the beginning. [[Prime Minister, time!]] That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u39	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher for the additional question and ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u40	I'm not going to start reading about the coalitions and the deputies. I think it is quite simple, although I understand that... or I do not understand, but I see that MEPs and opponents are repeatedly having problems with this. But it is legislatively and in all other respects logical and correct. But, Mr. Ambassador, I really don't know what happened on the election committee. I take your information seriously. I'm gonna look into it, I'm gonna talk to our deputies, and I'm sure we're interested in making sure there's no doubt there's any doubt that this election is going to happen properly. I am interested in all of us, I mean yours and ours, I can assure you, is that we respect the proportional system so that there are opposition representatives, so that everyone can do what they have, in the sense that I have defined the work of members of the General Health Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u41	Thank you for the additional answer, and now, with another interview, Mrs Berenika Peštová, who was drawn in sixth place, will be prepared by Mrs Vladimira Lesenská. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u42	Dear Prime Minister, on Tuesday, the Czech Television presented a scandalous report on your MP's begging for a large part of the trusting people who entrusted their finances to litomeric funds disguised as the Czech holding. In opposition, for eight years, you were most concerned about how Mr. Babiš helped himself to 50 million on the Cape Nest. Your Member is glowing at the tunning of 2 billion, he himself acknowledged his answer on the show. So I'd like to know if you're going to go with the same racket to uncover these other missteps. Honestly, this guy, if he's a member of the Defense Committee, I'm quite concerned about the fate of future military contracts. Did you not talk to the Member about the possibility of the composition of the mandate? How will you deal with this matter, Prime Minister? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u43	Thank you, Mrs Berenika Peštová, for the interview and I will ask for the reply and response of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and Mrs Peštová, I confess that I have not seen the report mentioned here because I have had to deal with other problems, such as those inherited by our government from the Government of Andrej Babiš, whether it be expensive, inflation, coronavirus, distributed state finances and others. Our government is also struggling with an inflexible government, in which the former government coalition has concreted a lot of its people who have not served the interests of the state but served the interests and benefits of one society because of a bad service law. [[15.30 hours]] And the current problems of the Czech Republic, and that is what citizens see, because they feel it every day, are serious and need to be dealt with by the government in priority, and that is what our government does. We have come up with concrete steps to address expensive energy. We are dealing with the coronavirus crisis, not with chaos, not with confused decisions, but with constructive, reasonable, understandable decisions. We're redoing the budget that we inherited in a catastrophic state, and so on and so forth. Those are the reasons why I can't devote myself to anything I want to do or look at otherwise. So much for a general answer. And I can't mention one thing yet that seems a little smiling to me when you're intersecting me here. In recent years, Czech politics has been burdened with the problems that the former Prime Minister, your President Andrej Babiš, has had, there has been talk of conflict of interest, drawing subsidies, a stork nest. I did not notice that the members of the ANO movement asked the Prime Minister for answers to questions relating to these cases. It was precisely the opposite, you defended him, even though these cases damaged the interests of the Czech Republic and the interests of citizens. And now just to the edge of Karel Krejza. I didn't get a chance to talk to him properly, but I asked him briefly. I have known Karel Krejza for many years, I know him as the successful deputy mayor of Litoměřice, who flourished under his leadership and leadership of his team, his colleagues. And I had the opportunity to see for myself in my travels in the Czech Republic. I also want to say that Karel Krejza has passed a number of elections, has been repeatedly elected both at municipal and national level. In the last parliamentary elections, he won nearly five thousand preferential votes and was elected a Member. The case you're talking about, which you're talking about, I think is more than ten years old. If I have good information, Karel Krejza worked at the company Český holding from 2003 to 2012 is not active in it for ten years. But I don't have any more detailed information about his involvement there. According to his words, as I had the opportunity to speak to him briefly, it is true that one of the major projects that the company prepared for his work in this company did not turn out successfully and had a negative impact on the economy of the entire company. The failure of the project, according to Karel Krejza, was due to the mortgage and economic crisis that hit the development projects of this type. It is certainly known to all who do business that simply not all business intentions will work out. That's what happened to this company. This is what Karel Krejza admits, does not disclaim responsibility, but it must also be said that important business projects are always approved by the general meeting, i.e. shareholders whose will the company's management subsequently carries out, and the interconnection of real estate purchases several years after Karel Krejza left the company with a failed business intention should not simply be associated with any past activities. As much as I know about it and as I have had the opportunity to talk about it briefly with Mr Krejza. When I'm free, I'm sure I'll look at the story, but I'm telling you, I haven't had this opportunity yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u45	Prime Minister, time. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and ask Mrs Berenika Peštová if she wants to ask an additional question? I see he's going to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u46	Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for the comprehensive answer which, of course, was not on the subject at all. At first, you explained to me what you had to fix or you had to fix everything. The story is interesting because Mr Krejza confessed himself there that he does not question it. But when I really marry, I say that I'm new here, those extraordinary meetings that have always been convened here in the last parliamentary term because of an affair, so I asked you how you're going to stand up to it because you were the ones who called. Yes, it's always the opposition, it won't, of course, be the co-workers calling on their own president to abdicate in some way or to stand up to it the way you called him. But I'm interested, because you were in the role where you say you want everything to be properly checked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u47	Madam, time. I will ask for the Prime Minister Petr Fiala's response at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u48	That is precisely the difference, Madame. I mentioned past cases here because I think they're all meant to be measured by the same subway and that we should just ask our own colleagues whether they've done something wrong or not. I did it, I asked the Member, I received his assurance. I must also say that the honourable Member does not conceal the fact that the business plan did not work out, that it did not go well, I think he has clearly taken a stand on this. But I'm not aware at this point, and I don't have the signals that Karel Krejza has committed anything that should question his further political actions. And I say what I have always said, and that is true: if a politician has committed something illegal, something unfair, he has nothing to do with politics. We are acting accordingly, and it doesn't matter if it's an ODS politician or an YES movement, and I believe that the same meter, the same rigour, will apply to everyone, even your party colleagues. I'm doing it, and I'm gonna keep doing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u49	I thank the Prime Minister for answering the supplementary question. Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, who has been drawn in the seventh place, will speak with further intervention at the moment, and Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a little advantage because my colleague Patrik Nacher was drawn before my question, so he gave me the whole introduction to what I was actually interested in. The association of clubs - yes, the Prime Minister here said that the Chamber of Deputies - clubs is one thing, the government is another. But as far as I know, he, as well as most other members of the government, are part of these clubs, and I would like to know within the nomination and during the election to the Administrative and Supervisory Board of the VZP, why suddenly the change. Nominations took place, as far as I know, based on club agreements, relative representation of clubs, and suddenly, look, everything's different! So today, with one vote, the revision of the original electoral commission resolution won, and we will nominate differently and according to new rules. Why? Who cares? And what I'm asking is, how are the next elections going to work? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u51	Thank you, Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, for the oral questioning, and at this moment I will ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala for an answer to this oral questioning. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madame Members, you are the one who has spoken, and I do not blame you for this, calling it association. I thought that, for example, bringing citizens together or something like that, that you wanted to deal with these questions, and if you had a little more specific, I would have prepared for that, so maybe I would have asked you what was going on in that choice, how the rules were changing, and I would have been able to give you a competent answer. I don't really mean it as a regret right now, but I mean that even for the Interpelling Members, in some countries it is customary that he is very specific about what the question will be directed to, and whoever is being intersected can prepare for it and get all the information, no one knows everything, not even me. So the association led me in a different direction in my imagination and my thoughts, and I couldn't imagine you asking about this. I will answer you as I did Mr Nacher. I'll look into it, find out what happened, talk to my colleagues about it. [[15.40 hours]] In general, however, in the Chamber of Deputies at the beginning, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, clubs can join a club. The Chamber of Deputies and its institutions are hereby established. That's what the Rules of Procedure tell us, it's nothing unusual. It is possible to proceed accordingly, not to proceed as such for the first time in the formation of this House, and it is something that is perfectly possible. Political parties create political clubs and political clubs when establishing, establishing organs The Chambers of Deputies have the opportunity to join one club, which then performs in this way, which has some effect on the formation of the House of Deputies. I know those who follow us outside the Chamber of Deputies sound a little weird, but these are the rules that we have in the Chamber of Deputies that work pretty well. Nor is it strange that the political parties that run within the coalition in elections, within the electoral coalition, then form separate parliamentary clubs. This is also in line with legislation, and this is in line with practice, and in the end, when a political party decides to run with another political party as part of the electoral coalition, it does not do so without risk, it does not just do so. There are certain limitations, there are higher entry clauses even after the court's intervention in the electoral law, and all this only shows that this is what the legislator was counting on, that the creators in the quotes of the political system were simply counting on this as a standard thing. So let's not make any of this special. I know that maybe at some point someone might not like it or like it, but it's something that's normal, that's consistent with our tradition, that fits fully with the rules of the game and the laws. If there are doubts, but I want to say this clearly, if there are doubts about the progress we have been discussing here, let's look at it, let's see, for example, at the level of club presidents, and let's move this thing forward so that we can remove the doubts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u53	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and ask Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská if he wants to ask an additional question. I see you do. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u54	Thank you. Thank you for explaining that I have no problem with him. The club association, yes, it works and it works, you explained that to me here again. But I asked: the original nomination was submitted by individual clubs. We respected it all, the electoral commission has its own resolution, and we've been doing that on the basis of something today. I asked where the change came from. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u55	Thank you, Madame, for the supplementary question. I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer and a response. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u56	And I will just repeat, and I will also do so, given that the honourable Member has spoken with the additional question that I am not informed about this change today, I have taken up other matters. Of course, I will hear my colleagues say how this has been done, and I repeat once again, if there are doubts, at the level of the club presidents it is undoubtedly possible to clarify them and to arrive at a result that will be acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u57	That was the answer to the Prime Minister's supplementary question, and now the Member and Chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, who was drawn under number 8, will speak with the next interview, and Mrs Margita Balaštíková will prepare herself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u58	Dear Prime Minister, you have five minutes to answer, so I will ask a simple six brief questions, which will be sufficient for a brief answer. One. Your coalition movement STAN and the first vice prime minister of your government, Vít Rakušan, have not yet answered questions about who are the end owners of the companies that sponsored their election campaign. It can't be traced. We've already talked about this. He doesn't want to admit it. And most importantly - and the second thing is, what kind of money does the sponsorship donations come from when we don't even know the end-owners of the companies, and if you don't mind? Why don't you ask Vít Rakušan to clarify? I mean, that's a big deal. You said you'd be for transparency, and the deed ran away! That's my first question. Second question. When will you call on the President of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš, who, contrary to the pirate code, accumulates three functions at once, Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Regional Development and Member? That's not right either. Why aren't you saying anything? Three. Minister Austrian is already taking revenge on us, and in the current report issued by the Ministry of the Interior today, he calls the SPD a disinformer. Of course, the Ministry of the Interior is using it to manipulate public opinion, thereby weakening political competition. Then let him stop using him if you invite him to do it. Fourth. Why is Miroslav Kalousek on the board? Why don't you nominate him to the Board of Directors? VZP has a budget of 261 billion crowns per year. You're sending a kuna to the henhouse! Is that the change you've been updating? Is that the new wind? Five. Why do you raise taxes when you promised not to raise taxes? Your Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka said you were going to raise excise duties. Why are you breaking your election vows? And six, when are you going to solve the auction? You said you'd be presenting a solution by the end of last year. You have introduced nothing and energy policy is in the hands of national governments, so you do not have to make excuses for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u59	Thank you for keeping time. This was the presentation of the interpelation by the chairman of the SPD, Tomie Okamura. At this point, I will ask for the Prime Minister Petr Fiala's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will try to answer your questions. But if you were present here at the previous interpellation, then I've already answered one. What our government is doing against the price increase was said, my answer or one of those key steps, but this was said in the answer concerning the budget make-up, the budget. What we can do against inflation, against people's depreciation of money, to stop inflation, to stop the price that the government's poor economic policies have caused here, and yet what the government has to do, all economists agree on it, is clearly signaling that the state will manage better, that the government will save, that the government will save on the spending side, that it will save on the operation of the state and that it will stop spinning the inflation spiral. That is a clear solution, and that is what our government is working hard on. And I was also talking here about what we did for people who are getting into energy poverty, because the previous solutions help where, even those with whom the previous government has come, such as VAT forgiveness, they temporarily help everyone, even those who do not need it. It costs a lot of money, but it's no solution. So I made the specific steps clear here. When it comes to taxes, read our coalition program really well! We promised people we wouldn't raise taxes overall. We even made a commitment to bring tax brakes, which means we're going to make a legislative provision that if taxes are reached in total at a certain amount, the tax quota laid down, so that the government can no longer raise any tax without reducing any other tax. That is our commitment, and that is what we will do and prepare during the parliamentary term. So there's no way we're raising taxes, and don't scare people. [[15.50 hours]] But what you're referring to is Marian Jurečka's words that match the electoral agenda. We have said that it is possible to adjust excise duties on the basis of harmfulness and that it is also possible to adjust taxes on the other hand, for example as regards things that are environmentally acceptable. That's what we have in our government's programming statement, but that's not a total tax increase. I think this is quite clear, it's clearly written there. And it doesn't mean that there's no movement of an item under excise duty, we've never said anything like that. But we can guarantee citizens that taxes and overall tax burdens will not increase under our government and that we will always solve deficit problems by saving on the budget's spending side, not by raising taxes. So it's all clear here, and there's no contradiction. It is not true that I did not ask the STAN movement about its financing, and I have no reason not to trust the Prime Minister Vít Rakušan, who said that the funding of STAN was not against the law. I also appreciate the fact that the mayor and independent movement decided to return all the donations from legal persons who received CZK 3.42 million from last year's House elections. I think that's a clear gesture. Even where there were no doubts, they returned all the gifts from legal entities. STAN has also expressed its willingness to apply stricter rules to financing than those laid down by law and rather than other political parties, precisely in order to eliminate all doubts. And I think that there are clear words, and not only clear words, they are clear actions. The Stan Movement returned 3.42 million crowns to disprove all doubts. This seems to me to be a responsible solution to the current situation. And I just believe that other political parties will similarly approach their funding if there are problems with their funding. I'm sure your SPD will also set an example in this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u61	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and ask if President Tomio Okamura wants to put... I see he wants to ask a follow-up question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u62	Prime Minister, you forgot to answer Mr. Bartoš, but I'm sure you'll answer. As far as the price is concerned, everyone can see, even the citizens on their wallets, that you haven't designed anything concrete. The result is not and will not be, because you will not solve it, because you would have to face up to the Green Deal of the European Union, and you would also have to reject the EU emission allowance trading system which makes energy citizens more expensive. But you will not do that because you are servile to Brusel and will not defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. You were talking about tax cuts. You haven't proposed anything yet. The only thing you guys cut down was traffic discounts for seniors and students. Everyone's costing more and you've taken their money. You said you were going to make savings, so you already did. You took money from firefighters, cops, soldiers and all that, instead of cutting money off the solar barons. But you cannot do that again because it is an EU project. And STAN returned some of the money. They got over 20 million through those companies à la Cyprus. But the important thing is who sponsored them and why, because then we see whose interests they defend. And you don't want to hear that, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u63	Thank you for asking the additional question. At this point, I will again ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala for an answer to the supplementary question put forward. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u64	You're right, Prime Minister Okamura. I really didn't answer your question about following the pirate code. Because what's in the pirate code really doesn't bother me that much. I'm interested in making the government work well so our five-calibers work. I thought that the Pirate Code was primarily taken care of by members of the Pirate Party. I see you're taking care of it, too, which surprises me, because I don't suspect you'd secretly become a member of the Pirate Party. Otherwise, when it comes to questions about people and what's happening to them, I think I've made it very clear what we're dealing with here. We're dealing with energy prices, and we helped those who hit those energy prices. We helped address it, specifically, and people feel it and they know it. And we are also doing an information campaign to ensure that all those who are entitled to social benefits as a result of energy prices, so that they know about it, can take advantage of it and get out of trouble. We solve the problems that people have with making virtually everything more expensive and that they also have with their savings being devalued. That's inflation. And the first signal that we can give - and we've been with the government for five weeks, so we can't solve everything that's been neglected here over the years - but the first signal that the government can give, and it's obvious - is that it wants to do something about inflation. And that's by doing better to manage it, saving on the expense side, saving on the operation of the state. That is what citizens will feel, because inflation will slow down and the depreciation of money, which, of course, troubles the citizens. The fact that there are a lot of other things that haven't been addressed, from pension reform to housing prices, a bad outlook for young families, the quality of education and other things, that's all true. Our government will deal with all of this. I also promised before this Chamber of Deputies. [[President: Mr President, time.]] And we'll keep those promises, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u65	Thank you for answering the Prime Minister's supplementary question. Mrs Margita Balaštíková will now speak with further intervention. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u66	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, according to the representatives of the agricultural public, which is the Agrarian Chamber and the Agricultural Union, you have refused to meet and negotiate with representatives of these professional agricultural organizations, even though the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic has asked you to do so through its President, engineer Jan Doležal. I would like to warn you, Prime Minister, that the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic is a professional organisation bringing together farmers and agricultural professional organisations and is established under the law of the Czech Republic. I want to ask you whether this is real and whether the media has told the truth in which you have announced that you will not meet pressure groups? Because I believe that the organization that is established here by law is certainly not a pressure group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u67	Thank you, Mrs Margit Balaštíková, for the oral questioning. And I ask for the Prime Minister Petr Fiala's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the honourable Members for this question, because if someone listens really carefully to the opinions of others and the opinions of influential interest groups, whether they are representatives of employees, employers, professional groups, representatives of entrepreneurs, then if someone is, then it is me and our government. We're not just doing this now. We have always met professional organisations, even when we were in opposition. We worked with them in the preparation of our electoral programme and we held debates including the Agricultural Chamber, the Agricultural Union or the Association of Private Farmers. I appreciate the work of professional groups, but also of non-governmental and non-profit organizations and others who do something for society and represent their segment. We have also done something that was not customary in the preparation of the government's programming statement, and that is that we have dealt with representatives of interest groups, representatives of individual associations, we have approached them, we have had them write comments, we have dealt with them. We will, of course, conduct discussions and dialogue with influential interest groups in this policy. Of course, interest groups can also exert pressure. I'm not saying they're pressure groups. I can distinguish this well, although interest groups are sometimes referred to as pressure groups in professional literature and do not mean anything negative. But it is about the situation in which these negotiations are taking place and how they are conducted, and I did not refuse to meet with representatives of the Agrarian Chamber and the Agricultural Union, but I refused to invite them to the meeting, to one specific meeting when the invitation came along with the announcement of the demonstration of these organisations before the Office of the Government. [[16.00 hours]] Nevertheless, I want to say - and this is important - that we have heard the voice of these influential agricultural interest groups and that we have incorporated their demands into the compromise that we have discussed here in order to bring about a good compromise and a good decision for Czech agriculture and Czech farmers. So they cannot feel left out, surely further negotiations will continue, but in that particular situation, I chose to postpone negotiations with these interest groups, because acting under this pressure would not produce any positive result. But we have achieved a positive result and everyone's interests are taken into account in this decision on agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u69	Thank you. Because at this moment the time has passed for oral interpellation to Prime Minister Petr Fiala, these oral interpellations are now ending and the oral interpellation to members of the government begins. I'm handing over the proceedings to Jan Bartošek at the moment. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We're initiating oral interpelations on the members of the government. I therefore now call on Mr David Pražák to give an interview to the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Ambassador Aleš Juchelka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Have a nice afternoon. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask the Minister if he would be kind enough to give us information on African swine fever. I am from the Liberec Region and our region is across the zone with intensive catch of black game, and so please ask for information on when the funds released from the Ministry of Agriculture for the State Veterinary Administration will be available, especially for the purpose of paying the gunfighter, because this is not happening at the moment, and if we want to continue to be among the countries that can combat African swine fever, then the basis is the motivation of hunters for intensive catch. Across the Czech Republic, as far as I know, in some regions, these are outstanding amounts in the order of millions, sometimes hundreds of thousands, such as our Liberecký. And I would like to hear from the Minister when the money will be, and also the reason why it is not released and paid. Maybe the Prime Minister will be interested, too, if he stays here a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u72	Thank you, and I will now ask the Minister of Agriculture for his answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for your interest in this issue. It should be recalled that African swine fever is a pan-European problem. It was first confirmed in the Czech Republic at the end of 2017. As experience from the successful control of the disease shows, radical reduction in the number of feral pigs throughout the Republic, along with operational veterinary measures, has a fundamental impact on its course. It is demonstrated that the risk of the introduction and subsequent persistence of African swine fever increases significantly in areas with high population density of wild pigs. Based on country-wide disease monitoring, its capture is not recorded in the Czech Republic today, but too much optimism is not appropriate. Currently, the nearest outbreak of African swine fever is reported in Poland, a circus 8 to 10 kilometres from the border with the Czech Republic. In Germany, such a nearest occurrence is then reported about 14 kilometers from our borders. From the point of view of the Czech Republic, therefore, the most risky areas of the Liberec and Ústecký Region and other areas along the Czech-Polish border to the east, affecting the border areas of the Králové Hradecký, Pardubický, Olomouc and Moravian-Silesian Region. All these areas have been declared intensive areas of wild boar. As I have already said, in our experience, the reduction in the number of feral pigs has a major impact on the successful management of the disease situation. To this end, it is necessary to motivate hunters, which is according to the applicable legislation, Government Decree No. 30/2014 Coll., on the rules on financial contributions to forest management and selected hunting activities, as amended, and is implemented in the form of a financial contribution to the reduction of the number of wild pig stocks, i.e. the so-called gunfighter. This is provided by the Ministry of Agriculture across the entire territory of the Czech Republic in the amount of CZK 2 000, for each piece caught above the five-year average hunt. In addition, the State Veterinary Administration's resources are paid in areas with intensive catch of compensation - I think as a reward - for securing a sample of a wild pig caught in the amount of CZK 2 000 and found in the amount of CZK 3 000 as a so-called sample/shooting. On your specific question, i.e. the question of when funds will be made available to the Ministry of Agriculture for the State Veterinary Administration in order to be paid for, however, an exact and unambiguous answer cannot be given. At present, the Czech Republic is in the so-called period of the budgetary commission, i.e. in a situation where the Chamber of Deputies is not approved by the State Budget Act. The State's organizational services, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, and the State Veterinary Administration, are managed by indicators of budgetary commissions processed for individual months. Their maximum possible total amount is 1/12 of the total state budget expenditure established by the last approved State Budget Act, i.e. the State Budget expenditure for 2021. As a general rule, in the period of the provisional budget, the distribution of State money until the proper adoption of the new budget is managed on the basis of the previous year, when 1/12 of last year's expenditure is released for each month, when individual chapters must primarily cover the expenditure of a mandatory nature. But spending on so-called bullets is not such a mandatorial expense. I assume that, following the approval of the State budget for 2022, we will, of course, continue to pay the gunman's salary with regard to the amount of available funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u74	Thank you, too, Minister, including keeping time. Would the Member like to ask a supplementary question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I really mean it. I was a little worried after the tour at the beginning that we wouldn't even get to it, but thank you. In fact, more or less, you answered what the Prime Minister said earlier that there was no example of the impact of the provisional budget. So, Prime Minister, at a distance: this is a specific case where the budgetary provisional means that, for example, in the Liberec Region and across the Republic, hunters will not be given money as gunning for wild boars, because the Ministry of Agriculture cannot free up this money thanks to the budgetary provisional. So, Minister, thank you for your answer and this is how I greet the Prime Minister and send him this one example. Maybe it's irrelevant to him in the billions, but if the African swine fever comes in here, and we've got him from Hrádek nad Nisou for maybe 10, maybe 8 kilometers, then I'm curious how we're going to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u76	Thank you, too. Does the Minister want to respond? No, okay, thank you. Mr. Aleš Juchelka will now speak with his intervention. Interpels the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Marian Jurečka. He's not present, he's excused for business reasons, so I'll ask you, Mr. Ambassador, if you read the interview, it will be answered orally. [[in writing?]] And Mr Martin Exner will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u77	Thank you very much. Therefore, I will respond, of course, to the answer from Minister Jurečka, whom I would like to interpel precisely on the Order 505, which is a payment decree on social services. It is, of course, known that the payment order has not been increased for eight years, that it is necessary, for example, to increase the cost of the stay and the cost of the stay services. However, what is really very dangerous for all those who are in home field care is the proposal to increase just care and assistance services in field care. The last House increased the care allowance in III after long years. and IV. the degree of care allowance, since it has not increased for several years and this contribution has been very low. So many people ended up in institutional care because they just didn't finance the field. The House and the Senate responded to this by increasing the care allowance enormously in order to reduce the difference as much as possible, so that the caring families were lightened. At this point, however, there has been an increase in the payment order since March of this year. Even because the Minister did not communicate with the disabled, demonstrations took place before the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and at least managed to reduce the increase from 20 to 10 percent. In increasing the payment order, according to the explanatory memorandum, there will be an additional CZK 1 billion from all clients, and I ask if this is really necessary. Despite the fact that an increase of about 10 percent may seem petty, but for those who are dependent on the care of others, who will become more expensive at the moment of energy, food, rents that are really the most vulnerable, this may be a fatal problem. Since 2014, the previous government has regularly increased subsidies in the context of social services. In 2014, it was less than CZK 8 billion from the state budget and almost CZK 22.5 billion in 2021. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] So I want to ask you how the Minister means it and whether he will really raise the payment decree in social services and for field services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u78	Thank you. Mr Martin Exner, who is intersecting the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan, will now appear and Mr Karel Havlíček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed members of the government, esteemed colleagues, in recent months we have all been exposed to a great deal of questions and comments from our citizens, especially about pandemics and, perhaps, around electoral law. Of course, that's perfectly fine, that's what we're here for, but we can't help but notice that certain patterns and stimuli, repeating in those emails that come to us, are a successful result of the use of disinformation websites and chain emails and similar matters. We are direct witnesses of Russia and various trolls trying to destabilize our country and confuse our citizens. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Rakušan, what steps are you planning to take to preserve the security of our country, to protect our citizens from live propaganda and misinformation, and how you want to communicate the various actions of combating misinformation in the media. And last but not least, will you also guarantee citizens from all over the political spectrum that the fight against misinformation and hybrid threats will not endanger freedom of speech? I believe that the new government will pursue this important agenda much more and better than the previous one. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. And please let the Home Secretary take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u81	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, members and members of the Government, colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Member, my answer will have several levels. Firstly, I will refer to the official materials that already exist in this matter, and here I will say quite openly that many of them were created during the past. In 2016, the National Security Audit was established, where there is decisive and clear talk of the dangers of hybrid threats and misinformation. Similarly, in 2021, the National Strategy for hybrid action was established. On the other hand, he's a bit of a talker. The material from 2021 describes the need for strategic communication of the state, such communication that will be professional and able to capture, classify, face, sort out various types of disinformation and hybrid danger, and then transmit them to expert teams to be able to prepare a clear strategy for literally and into the letter to combat misinformation and hybrid danger. There was a recommendation, but it is actually necessary to say systemically that we do not have conceptual, organizational, personnel, procedural, legal enough tools to face hybrid threats and misinformation in the Czech environment. In our government's programming statement, there is an obligation to build strategic communication with the Office of the Government and at the same time to create a position of advisor to national security, also with the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. It might seem that there is a new position here that may be useless, and it is some increase in official posts, as we hear so often from our opposition. But this is a position, this is a place that is recommended by all experts precisely to have at government level a person who has the legal competence to coordinate activities such as secret services and to be able, on behalf of our state, to manage strategic communication in the field of security. There is currently lack of coordination in this area, there are insufficient mechanisms and there are also no cooperation between the various security policy actors. In addition, a National Security Advisor position will be established. At the same time, I will soon introduce material to the government whose working name is Analysis of the readiness of the Czech Republic to face a serious disinformation wave. In this material, we will prepare concrete recommendations and present the entire platform and structure of how the new government wants to face disinformation as such. At the same time, however, we realise that this is the current situation, and the position of National Security Advisor will not take place sooner than a year. It requires a legislative process, which will certainly not be completely easy in the House or in the Senate. Optimistic prediction is that from 1. We have this position next year. The deadline we set is half of next year. Until then, a working group was formed at the Ministry of the Interior, which contains analysts from more departments, ad hoc invites those who may be affected by some particular disinformation campaign. In that group there are also professional communicators, there are people who control PR in such a way that they are able to create short-term or long-term campaigns that would be able to bring the most misinformation to the right and effectively face them and fight them, not just to describe them, but to come from that defensive to offensive. And that's what the group itself is preparing intensively for. It's a bit of a shame that we overslept, because we could definitely use an effective strategy to combat misinformation in that pandemic video wave. Covid's still here. At least in the last wave, we'll try to hit the most fundamental misinformation that, as far as I'm concerned, literally and literally, human lives can stand up to the letter. So the government is preparing and I hope that at the end of our term it will be clear that we consider this as a fundamental security risk to the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u82	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he wants to fill in a question? No, you're happy with the answer, thank you. I will therefore now ask Mr Karel Havlíček, who interpels the Minister of Industry and Trade of Josef Síkela. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to interpel to the Minister of Industry and Trade of the Parties to the covido support of entrepreneurs. Our government under great pressure from entrepreneurs, but in principle logically also the opposition has prepared business covido support for 700 000 entities with the sole objective of ensuring that the aid is rapid, that it is limited to all the affected, and that it is at the maximum possible level. At first it was slower, I think in the last few months it was the way it was supposed to be. That is why we have prepared final support for the last two months, November and December, exactly according to the pattern of spring. We prepared it in agreement with all the unions, associations, chambers and so on, at the turn of November and December. For the new government, we have prepared a foreplay of these programmes, the Uncovered Costs 2020, 2021, to affect entrepreneurs with sales declines from 30% above in different categories in two programmes. The government assumed responsibility on 17 December and nearly five weeks have passed since then, with no support. My question is: Why doesn't the support of these programs work? In which we respect that it can be to a different degree. It could have been done that the support that was prepared had been received, the programmes could only be written out, which was a matter of units of days. It could have been done that the aid could have been reduced, it could have been done in only one programme, it could have decreased in different percentages, it could have increased, and it could have even said that there would be no support at all. It is undoubtedly the right of every government, even if we, as well as entrepreneurs, would object to this. However, five weeks have passed and there is no information from the Ministry of Industry. So I'm asking you to tell me what this support will look like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u84	I also thank you and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to Mr Havlíček's question in the context of his lack of support from my side regarding the covido programmes. I understand your right to consider the support insufficient, and I think you understand that I have a slightly different view of the matter, because as part of the promotion of the business environment, I consider that business can take place, that we are struggling with inflation, and that we support business in all possible forms. I would like to point out that it was our government that abolished or did not prolong the emergency situation that was introduced by your government from 26 November to 25 December and which exposed a number of subjects to a certain problem. However, we have all said that a lot of people have claimed that Armageddon will occur, we have not extended the emergency situation and have made it possible that the business has started again, albeit not in a completely free way, but to a substantial extent. That's the first thing I wanted to mention. The second thing is that I would very much like to respond to what you call the readiness of the covid programs. I'm glad you mentioned the number that was said here, to whom all and what form you wanted to help. I joined the Ministry 17. 12. and to my surprise, I found that actually a week before, or 10. 12., you, Mr Havlíček, have launched a so-called "Viseo" of calls for two comprehensive and extensive COVID 2021 and COVID covido programmes - Uncovered costs. According to the information that you yourself had at your disposal - based on what my current and your former subordinates told me, you knew that these programs should cost a state budget of CZK 12 billion. When I asked your subordinates what they thought about writing the visa, they said they were all against it - they were all prepared to confirm it - and they said they did it on the basis of your political assignment, Mr. Ambassador. I was really surprised when you said these programs were ready. I even looked up your information for the government. You were in government with it. Your government has taken note of this, but it has forgotten one important thing - it has forgotten to add to the familiar fact that it instructs the Finance Minister to prepare cover for these programs. I don't want to have a debate about how much more 12 billion in the system would be upside-down, like they would be upside-down, but from my point of view, you were kind of writing blank checks. I did an analysis of the 32 billion crowns for the covido programs that were spent in 2020. I found that way very unfair to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I know there were more than 60,000 of these subjects, but almost 10 percent of all the money paid under these programmes was divided between 20 companies, which is 0.04%, some of which were known casinos, about six of which are within economically tight groups of Czech billionaires. I consider this way of paying money, as I have already said, to be very unsystemic and inflationary. I am not a supporter, as I have already said, of the area measures and I am still looking for an addressable and less expensive solution for viable businesses. At this point, the final form of the programme is being discussed with other colleagues in the government. We are closest to any solution for the segment, which was actually the most affected because it was de facto completely banned from day to day by your government measures, these are the stallers and organizers of Advent markets. The form that is probably closest and which is offered is the de minimis option that has... yes, I'll just finish a sentence that has a great advantage in not waiting for the European Commission to be notified and we can pay the money if we agree to the government very quickly. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u86	Thank you. The Member is going to ask you an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u87	Thank you. As far as area support is concerned, it was your request, it was the request of the opposition here and we respected it. I could show you the minutes from the special government commission, which clearly said that it should be paid to all who will have a decrease in sales of 40 percent and above - we had 50 percent. The chairman of the Commission, Mr Stanjura, said that the aid was low and should be even bigger. You've been pushing for support to be across the board, to be for all affected subjects, but that made sense. Among other things, this was also required by the European Commission. You were wrong about the order, Minister, in terms of support. It wasn't 60,000 subjects, it was 700,000 subjects. Of course, we also need to include entities from the Ministry of Finance and Local Development, possibly work and social affairs. That's how we split it up with the government. The Ministry of Industry and Trade made medium and possibly even larger companies and the Ministry of Finance made tradesmen and smaller entities. All programmes were not only notified, but they were agreed by all associations and associations that had logical requirements in that sense. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] As far as the budget is concerned, we have had to deal with this with every budget. Of course, it would come from the budget reserve. That's how we split 360 billion crowns and we didn't have it in our budgets. We had to learn to work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u88	The Minister seems to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u89	I was right, Minister. I'm rarely wrong about numbers. I recorded your $700,000, but I was talking about the programs that were paid out under the two programs. I didn't include... So the sum of those 32 billion was the amount that involved the more than 60,000 entities. That's the first point. [[16.30 hours]] I just wanted to add, respectively, that to what I have already said about the de minimis option, so now any entrepreneur who demonstrates a reduction in turnover of at least 30% as a result of government covid antiepidemic measures can draw a compensatory bonus from the Ministry of Finance for the Ministry of Finance and small s. r. o. and the future compensation that the government of the Czech Republic will discuss and approve will be primarily targeted at entrepreneurs who, without such assistance, will find it difficult to manage and demonstrate a viable business model, which will at least be partially adapted to current market conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u90	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Michaela Šebelová, who is intersecting the Minister of Education, Mr Petr Gazdík, will now speak with her intervention, and Mr Jaroslav Bžoch will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u91	Dear members of the government, Minister, my question is quite simple and practical and is directed towards the regime of testing students of higher vocational schools. I would like to ask why the testing regime of these students is different from those of primary and secondary schools. Of course, I know that higher vocational schools are actually closer to higher education, but in practice they often reside in elementary school buildings, secondary schools, and so in practice students are subject to different regimes in the building. My second question goes to this: as a member of the school committee, a member of our youth organisation mSTAN has turned to me as a member of our youth organisation, whether you are actually considering or whether your department is involved in testing university students because we are nearing the end of the exam period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u92	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, yes, indeed higher vocational schools are schools that are a little out of order. Although they are - most of them are - functionally in buildings or together with secondary schools of similar focus, on the other hand from the point of view of the law they are taken differently, they are taken as university studies or other studies than secondary schools, and this makes trouble even in covid. While universities have absolute autonomy and autonomy, higher vocational schools do not. These are established by specific founders from the ranks of self-government, and therefore it works differently. I have also been approached recently by a number of school directors and school directors, because there is an examination period for higher vocational schools until 1 February, and, of course, in the examination period there was no need for testing as for primary schools or secondary schools. I want to tell you that we have been thinking about this, and given the current epidemiological situation that is, yesterday, on a proposal from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health has prepared an emergency measure approved by our government yesterday, and from 1 February the pupils of higher vocational schools will also be tested. A total of 13,000 in the Republic, sorry, not students, but students, to be exact. Because, of course, it would be very illogical for pupils or secondary school students to be tested by employees in schools that are in one of the buildings with secondary schools, and students of higher vocational schools have not been tested. So they'll be tested next Monday. They got to know in time, already on Tuesday went to all data boxes of all these schools in the Czech Republic report on how the regime will look from Monday. The tests will be distributed to them as is the case with primary and secondary schools. If you ask further about universities, yes, at these moments there is a meeting with the Ministry of Health, what will be the regime of testing in schools generally after 15 February, in the middle of February. Of course, we don't know how epidemics are going to develop at that point, but we have some projections, so we're trying to prepare for that. The Minister of Health, I see, is nodding. We are trying to prepare for this both by buying tests and by informing school directors in time what measures can be taken and also by informing the public in time. The exam period ends on 15 February at universities. In case the epidemiological situation continues to deteriorate, we would probably proceed to some form of testing. If there are forecasts, it will continue to be in individual universities and their autonomy, which measures will be chosen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u94	I thank you, Minister, and I ask whether the Member wants to add an additional question. It's not like that, okay. Thank you for your answer. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, who is intersecting the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský, is excused. So please read the interview, you will be answered in writing, and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u95	Thank you for the floor. I know the Minister is excused for his trip to NATO, so I'd be happy to answer in writing. I have already raised this question in the vote on trust to the government, and it is what is written in the Government's Program Statement, and this is a revision of the relationship with Russia and China. I'm not going to ask about Russia right now, because I think we all know what the situation is, but I'm interested in reviewing the relationship with the People's Republic of China. My point is that I would like to hear from the Minister or read the state in which these relations with China are today, according to the government, where they are, where we are today, when we have a revision, and I would also like to know what this revision is meant to be, what direction our relations with the People's Republic of China are to develop, whether we have a pragmatic approach, whether we focus on trade policy or put more emphasis on human rights. What should be the result and in what direction and what should our relations with the People's Republic of China look like in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u96	Thank you so much for keeping time. Mr Zdeněk Kettner, who is intersecting Minister Martin Baxa, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u97	Thank you. I have the following question. I discovered the name green filming. Now that I know Green Deal, there's green filming here. I found an 18-page manual on the same website where filmmakers are advised to use sprinkled tea instead of baggy tea to turn down the heating while shooting in the studio and so on. It's even mentioned that they're so progressive in the West that they have something like a carbon politician who makes sure everything is done while filming. I found it funny until I read the following communication from the President of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund, Helena Bendová: "In calls to support film production, we have recently introduced a mandatory section so that producers can express whether and how sustainable filmmaking practices will be applied. It is then one of the things that we take into account when we discuss the film at the council." That kind of shocked me. This means that we - I am quite surprised that the free-thinking artists didn't show up, that they hadn't heard enough - it was here before in the previous regime that the main point was the ideological aspect, that there would be enough turning and punches and there would be plans. We really - we have a fund here that works with one billion taxpayers' money, so we're really going to supervise the quality of the film, not in terms of artistic quality, but ideology? So my question to the Minister is, does he know that the cinema fund has one of these aspects? If so, if he can tell if it feels normal to him, and if he doesn't know about it, then how he feels about it, or how he will proceed on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u98	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and the Minister is ready to answer you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u99	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, honourable Members, through the Vice-President, I understand, of course, your interest in this issue, and I am undoubtedly prepared as Minister of Culture to answer your questions. But maybe it's not exactly like it's in vain to actually explain what these terms mean at the beginning. And I know that if you look at the fact that it's written somewhere green filming, in your party's logic, you'll immediately think that it's some kind of green madness and that it's some kind of mandatory environmental issue quota in filming. But as I'm saying, you need to look at what it really means. But as I say, I do not deny you the right to ask these questions. [[16.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, here I'll show you the so-called green shoot manual. That is the green filming, my colleague, that is not a mandatory quota of green themes in movies, but it is a perfectly normal practical guide. As we normally do at home, I assume that you are also at home, sorting out, so green filming is nothing more than some comprehensive set of ways to behave environmentally responsiblely in film productions in the context that every film industry can contribute precisely to avoiding the deterioration of the environment. And I'm showing this publication here because our Association of Producers in Audiovision released the Green Film Manual, and there are just very common things to do with waste, how to use traffic wisely, how to use props, decorations, and so on. It is actually a very common project that concerns sustainability. What I think is serious is that you here without any evidence are talking about it as some kind of evaluation criterion for the State Cinema Fund. My colleague, I recommend reading a law describing the activities of the State Cinema Fund. So even though green filming doesn't mean what you think it really is, I still want to assure you and all my colleagues in the House and the public that green filming isn't any evaluation criterion of the State Cinematography Fund, simply because the evaluation criteria are given by the Audiovision Act, and the only thing that the applicants say in their requests to the State Cinematography Fund is that they normally use the so-called sensible, sustainable filming, but it certainly cannot limit how their projects are evaluated. Unfortunately, Mr Kettner does not know what green filming is. Let me just say that it is no ideological mantra for what environmental content is supposed to be in the film, but that it is an instrument that is being used at the moment when filming is a global business, for filmmakers in the respective countries and for their own filming to behave in a sustainable way, as most of us are quite normal at home, and that, to that extent, it becomes some set of measures that we already have in the Czech Republic through the Green Film Manual published by the Association of Producers in Audiovision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u100	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask if the MP... Yes, the Member is reporting an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u101	Thank you, Mr President. I koukat it's becoming the norm here for dehonesty and ridicule based solely on belonging to a political party. You're convincing me that I don't know what green is right, that I understand a completely different green and so on. I know what green filming is, I read it last time. To me... let everyone film ecologically, unekologically, it's his moral responsibility. The fact that there's no information, the quote here is the chairman of the Cinema Council. I don't know who's lying now. Did Mrs. Bendová say that or didn't she? And you didn't answer my question: is this part of the evaluation criteria, as Mrs Bendová says, or isn't? If you tell me he's not, I'll be perfectly satisfied, and you don't have to pester me like some little pupil you don't like completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u102	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u103	Ambassador, through the Vice-President, I don't mean to pester you in any way. We're not in a school where you're a teacher. I don't know if you squeal on your students, but I certainly don't need to piss on you in any way you do. I'm just talking about facts that should be verified by the person asking questions. Green filming is no ideology, green filming is a tool that is used for sustainable filming at a time when shooting becomes a global business, when production is being moved around the planet, where it is a large amount of material, energy and so on. This is not a criterion of nothing, it is simply a set of measures that serve to limit the environmental impacts of these large productions in the context of this in any way possible. So it's not like it's a dehonestation or any kind of chirping. I have only heard repeatedly on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, as representatives of your political party speak on this subject, so in that context I have responded. And if we ask the evaluation criteria, I will just repeat that the evaluation criteria within the selection are set by the Audiovision Act, and green filming, i.e. banal compliance with the principles of sensible, gentle procedure at all stages of film production, is not a criterion that affects how they are evaluated professionally - I stress, professionally evaluated - films within all procedures applied by the State Cinema Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u104	Thank you, Minister. Mr Lucie Šafránková will now speak to Minister Josef Síkela. Member Jana Hanzlíková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u105	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members, Minister, I am addressed by desperate citizens, businessmen, not only from our South Moravian region, but from all over the Republic, with a question where the state will help them in a situation where business in particular is still limited in services. That is why I am now asking you and for them with a simple question: When will your ministry finally launch the last two functional programs to help companies whose gainful activity has significantly reduced anti-epidemic measures? In particular, this is a call 3 under the COVID - Uncovered costs and a call 2 under the COVID 2021 programme. The announcement of both of these calls was announced in the middle of December last year and nothing else is happening in this regard. Traders and their umbrella organisations are also complaining in bulk about the non-communication of your office, especially about the fact that their numerous questions, when the current phases of these support programmes, on which the survival of their business, including subsequent employment in the regions, will be launched. Dear Minister, can you answer me specifically when the current challenges in the COVID programmes will be announced - Uncovered costs and COVID 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u106	I also thank you, Madame, and I ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u107	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, I would not like to repeat myself, because this is similar to the question raised by Mr Havlíček. I have already said that I am not a supporter of total compensation, I have said that I consider them to be very upside-down. I have stated that what we are preparing is helping those who have been directly affected by the emergency and government measures between the end of November and Christmas, which means Christmas marketers. I also said that there is still a program for entrepreneurs when they show a drop in turnover of at least 30 percent, and that's the segment you were talking about, the so-called compensation bonus for the self-employed and the little e-serogae, those are the... compensation bonus, sorry, compensation bonus. And I said that I would support those programmes that would be difficult to deal with, but at the same time - and that is important because we need to invest, not spend and consume - they will prove a viable business model that will show that they have adapted to new market conditions, because the situation, although I hope to see some sort of release soon, will not change in many ways. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to focus on the future. We are preparing a number of packages and programmes to help companies modernise, we want to allocate relatively large amounts to them, for example from the investment subsidy from the National Recovery Plan of around 10 billion, where we want to invest in the digitization of plants and businesses where we want to focus on the construction of photovoltaic power plants with accumulation. We want to support electromobility in business, we are preparing support for certification, strategic technologies that will help businesses to obtain quality management certificates and product certificates. We want to focus on internationalization of start-ups, simply know how to support companies that grow up in the so-called scaleup in Bohemia and become fast-growing businesses that want to expand abroad. We have prepared technological incubation, we are preparing support for rural colonials under the Enterprise 2021+ programme and we are preparing a new business package with a number of key measures. I am now having a very interesting discussion with my departmental colleague in Slovakia, when they have focused on similar things, preparing several dozen laws and amendments to laws to break bureaucracy and help businesses to facilitate business. He's really interested in what we're doing. So there are a number of things that we are preparing for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u108	Thank you very much. The Member will ask an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u109	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You're talking about a compensatory bonus that's supposed to end on January 31st. So I'd like to ask, because I've noticed from the Minister of Finance, Mr Stanjura, that the extension should not take place any longer, so according to information from you, this extension will be due to the compensation bonus for the next period? And then I have another question: How specifically do you intend to help Czech businessmen and small Czech companies affected by astronomical growth in electricity and gas prices? Are you preparing a specific program for them? Since the point is that when electricity or gas is generated under a business regime, not private housing sites, the possibility of applying for a housing allowance cannot be used. It is also essential that energy commodity prices are much higher for business outlets than they are in housing properties and their growth is really liquidation for many entrepreneurs. So thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u110	Thank you, Madam, for keeping time. The Minister is going to answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u111	I didn't say the compensation bonus would continue. That, of course, will be discussed with the Minister of Finance. But you asked me how to help businessmen affected by covid. At this point, the state of the economy is that basically normal business is possible. With regard to energy prices, entrepreneurs and firms, small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to apply for a loan with a state guarantee of up to CZK 2 million, with a guarantee of up to 80 percent. This will allow the extension of the Programme Guarantee 2015 to 2023 provided by the National Development Bank. And we still have some unfinished technical stuff going on there, how we're gonna do it so that it's the most advantageous thing for those businesses, whether we're gonna do it through the commercial sector or whether we're gonna do it directly through the national development bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u112	Thank you, Minister. Ms Jana Hanzlíková will now speak with her intervention, intersect Minister Marian Jurečka, and prepare Mrs Eliška Olšáková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow Members, the absent minister, now in a time of energy poverty and the rise in prices of almost everything, many citizens are turning to me, who are getting into considerable financial problems as a result of the long deadlines for medical assessment services. In fact, the lack of assessors leads to an excessive increase in management, particularly in the field of the non-insurable system. These often last for several months, and this, of course, has a very negative impact on the quality of life of the people who ask for these benefits. And we have to figure out what kind of people they are. They are in particular disabled people, with serious illness and their families and carers. The previous government has dealt intensively with this issue, taken many measures and considered it very important. That is why I ask the Minister: What is the current state of the medical assessment service, whether this service is currently staffed, within what time limits are the benefits decided today? But first of all, what specific measures will the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs take to avoid the long deadlines that put citizens in adverse situations of life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u114	Thank you, too, Madame. Your interview will be answered in writing. Mrs Eliška Olšáková, who is intersecting Minister Vít Rakušan, will now appear. Mrs Monika Oborná will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u115	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, Minister, I would like to interpel you in relation to Act No. 324/2021, which deals with compensation of entities affected by the exceptional events in the area of ammunition warehouses Vlachovice-Vrbětice. In October and December 2014, there were explosions of two ammunition warehouses in these warehouses. As chair of the crisis staff of the ORP Valašské Klobouky, I personally participated in the evacuation of local residents and resolved the situation then through the crisis staff of the ORP Valašské Klobouky. That is why I very much acknowledged the adoption of this law. And it is in the context of this adoption that I would like to ask you, Minister, how are the applications currently being received, which should be about 8 000 during this six months, how many have been submitted, how many have been settled or rejected so far. And last but not least, I would also like to ask you how the Ministry of the Interior will deal with the requests of citizens who actually live here in the municipalities, but do not have a permanent residence there, which actually shows us an unsolved long-term problem with actual and permanent residence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u116	I thank you, Madame, and ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u117	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be more brief. After we had a case here last year, which had many political overlaps in relation to Vrbětice, however, as part of the good work of our security forces it was possible to point out who was behind these explosions, then the Czech State and the previous government, the entire previous Chamber of Deputies agreed that there was a claim to compensation for the affected persons in this region. I don't remember exactly how the vote went, who was against it, so some generally questioned the willow case on principle, and they didn't care how people live or die. But I think there was a very strong consensus about the need for support here. I would also like to take this opportunity to say once again to the affected municipalities that a written request for compensation can be made to the Ministry of Interior from 1 January 2022 to 30 June 2022. So whoever did not do so, let him do so as soon as possible. Of course, we are also trying to inform the regions that this programme is open for six months through the Association of Local Authorities, SMO Czech Republic. [[17,00 hours]] For yesterday we register 6 430 applications at the Ministry of the Interior and to date 1,637 requests were evaluated. I would like to very much appreciate the work of the clerks and clerks without accepting one more, so they manage the agenda and the rush of applications very well. Payment of the amount granted to individual applicants in accordance with the law is paid within 30 days of the date of the decision and to date the Ministry of the Interior has already paid the total amount of CZK 13 646 876 to the eligible applicants. I'd like to disprove one more rumor here, which I've also heard is that some budget cuts will not result in compensation for Vrbětice. This is, of course, nonsense, because it is also bound by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, and this amount will, of course, also be in the forthcoming budget of the current government. Of course, it is also good that the Ministry of the Interior worked directly on the ground and tried to explain to the mayors and mayors the methodology for asking for damages in this area. Unfortunately, I do not have such good news on the issue of permanent residence, because it is clearly defined here. The Act on this one-off compensation to the word and to the letter in Section 3 para. 3 regulates a single criterion for determining the person entitled to claim one-off compensation by registering for permanent residence in the municipality. In the event that the person is not reported for permanent residence, he asks for compensation, so unfortunately the Ministry here, under the applicable legal regulation, must evaluate the application as unjustified and reject the application. This is, of course, a broader discussion with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities, on how to solve this problem systematically in the future in the law. However, the payment of compensation for Vrbětice will definitely not be stopped and all applications may be submitted by 30 July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u118	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if the honourable Member wants to ask an additional question? It's not, okay, thank you. Mr Monika Oborná, who intersects Minister Zdeněk Nekula, will now speak and Mr Radek Vondráček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I am interviewing you about the capabilities of the CITES Rescue Centres, since Act No. 501, amending the Law on the Protection of Animals against Abuse, has defined, among other things, the conditions for the protection of selected species of wild animals and apes. These are mainly conditions for breeding animals, equipment and size of premises for animals. The general requirements for the care, premises and equipment for the breeding of species requiring special care were then laid down with effect from 1 January 2022 by the implementing decree of the Ministry of Agriculture No. 451/2020. Where the municipal authority of a municipality with extended competence decides to prevent an animal, if the animal maintains a person who has been prohibited by a final decision, the animal is to be placed in CITES Rescue Centres. According to some breeders, however, there are no spare capacities in these centres where these animals could be placed, and there is no interest in these animals, either, in zoos. Dear Minister, I would therefore like to ask what is true about this information, whether there are sufficient capacities in the rescue centres for placing selected species of animals in cases where they are prevented and whether they are not really at risk of being killed, as some breeders fear. During the day, I was informed that CITES Rescue Centers were part of the Ministry of Environment's strategy. I was therefore based on the fact that this is an issue which is dealt with by the law against animal abuse, which is in the gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture. So, Minister, I would like to ask you if you could comment on this at least within the limits of your department's options, because it's an interpellation that came from breeders, and if they're concerned about the fact that... [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u120	Thank you very much. Minister, I'm going to ask you for an answer to the interpellation. [[Mr Vondráček is going to the speaker's desk.]] The Minister will respond to the interpellation. [[It was fun in the hall.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Law No. 246/1992 Coll., for the protection of animals against cruelty, as amended, together with implementing decrees, is in the gesture of the Ministry of Agriculture, however, the establishment and operation of the basic centres of CITES, including the determination of their capacity, falls within the gesture of the Ministry of the Environment. Your question about the sufficient capacities of the CITES Rescue Centres must be addressed to the Minister of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u122	Thank you, Minister. I wonder, Mrs...? He doesn't have a follow-up question, okay. Now, then, Mr Radek Vondráček, who intersects Minister Pavel Blažek, who is absent, will be answered in writing. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u123	Thank you for the floor. It is precisely because the Minister of Justice is absent, so I have overlooked the Minister of Agriculture. Dear absent Minister of Justice, I am experiencing mild déjà vu here, because when we discussed and voted on government trust, the situation was exactly the same: I have asked a number of questions that have not been answered to this day, and you were not present in the hall. I don't think I can count on how many times I've been questioned by journalists and criticized by our party for not taking part in the intercession, so I expected those benches to be filled in the new term and that we would therefore be discussing. I do not like to speak to the wall, because the point of oral intervention is indeed the immediate interaction, the conflict between the opposition and the coalition, so that the public can take a picture, for example, which of the two is more ignorant in which debate. In Anglo-Saxon cultures, sometimes such a well-hit interpelation means that the minister resigns from his post. I had the opportunity to watch such a debate, for example, in the Canadian Parliament. I have a very simple question for you. On page 51 of the Government's programming statement, it says: "We will put in place an increase in the remuneration of the unusual workers in the area of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office. " I wanted to ask what the word "set" means, because you took the promised CZK 1,400 from these employees on December 29, 2021. And so I'm wondering what that "plant" means, when and how you're gonna pay them back, and how you're gonna add it to them, because in your programming statement, you promise to give these employees, those accountants and other employees of the disconcerting staff a wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u124	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, who is intersecting Minister Vlastimil Válek, will prepare Mr Jan Síla. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u125	Thank you. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I'll ask the questions. But I'll start with a short statistic. To yesterday, according to monitoring, which goes to me and to the Minister, 54,685 were newly diagnosed. The vaccination rate of the population of the Czech Republic is around 63 percent. At the beginning of January, 75,000 people were on average vaccinated daily, only 50,000 vaccines per day at the end of January. According to today's monitoring, the total number of hospitalized patients is increasing, daily incomes are generally reported at about 250 on average, but unfortunately we also observe a decrease in the number of patients requiring intensive care. Unfortunately, among newly infected potentially vulnerable patients there are still relatively many unvacated and unprotected, and this can really have other consequences in hospital care. [[17.10 hours]] I want to ask you, Minister: you have always criticized our government for not being able to motivate unscathed and unprotected patients, we are not doing good education, we are not doing a good campaign. I want to ask you, according to the media, you'll be from 1. 2. inoculate... or offer a new Novavax vaccine. Do you think those people who aren't vaccinated once, that you can convince them? I want to ask you what you've done in this time outside of our precautions, our previous government, to increase your vaccination rate for patients who aren't vaccinated with a single dose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u126	I thank you, Madame, for your time, and I ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question and I am glad that there is at least a majority consensus across the Chamber of Deputies that vaccination is a key issue. I take this opportunity and thank the lady for giving it to me, and I ask that and please all those who listen to today's interpelation do not have a third dose, please come for a strengthening dose. All those who will eventually see today's interpelations, go for vaccinations. I completely agree with the Member that vaccination is an absolutely crucial matter. The vaccination against covid continues successfully. For last night, at least one dose of 6 915 483 people was vaccinated, 3 631 742 of them were also vital, and I would point out in the case of omicron, a strengthening dose. This means that we have 64.6% and 75.1 percent respectively in the adult population - 75.1 percent in the adult population. This is the benchmark that the European Union compares. And I am very pleased that, in the final phase, when, say, the rapid changes in the Ministry of Health stopped, and when the former Prime Minister, through Mr President, now Mr Babiš, called on the opposition to cooperate, I thank you that the opportunity for the health service was and that the AntiCovid team could cooperate with the health sector. I am very glad that the vaccination campaign has begun, that the vaccination has continued, we have followed it up, and I think that very successfully, the numbers testify to it. The most endangered age group 65+, and we agree on that, we have at least 86 percent of the population vaccinated with basic vaccination. I remind you of a mantra 75 percent that turned into a mantra 85 percent. Today we know that collective immunity in this case is not possible, but the effort to achieve 100 percent is unrealistic everywhere. I would like to point out that the strengthening dose of them is 82 percent, and this is a crucial thing, because the strengthening dose is what 100% protects patients from serious illness and from hospitalization at ECMO today. It is true that vaccination slows down, yes, it is a fact, and it has to slow down, because always at the peak wave the interest in vaccination is significantly lower. There are a number of reasons, part of those people are quarantined, part of those people have a disease gone through, they're in isolation, they get a certificate that has a six-month validity, and that's all the reasons why they have to, logically they have to - and it's gonna be a few weeks, one, two, three - I hope that this wave will be over in three weeks at the latest, and the data we have is consistent with that, maybe earlier - they have to weaken their interest in vaccination. As much as we all want the pandemic to end, and we hope that the omicron is the last mutation, we suspect that we can't count on it 100%, and it's possible that further booster vaccinations will be necessary. However, today we know perfectly clearly that it must be carried out systematically so that the level of antibodies is highest in those moments when the wave comes in and peaked at the time when the wave is strong. We must focus not only on risky age groups and risky patients primarily, and there may be agreement in the entire Chamber of Deputies, but also on age groups 16 to 40. And I understand what the honourable Member says, and again, thank you for the opportunity to answer, because this is the most economically active group. What did we do? Starting last week, vaccination with a booster dose in adolescents from 12+ is started. It was consistent with the entire vaccine society - the epidemiological team. From 1 February, a pre-registration of Novavax vaccine, which is partly produced in the Czech Republic, will be possible. It is a vaccine that is not a mRNA vaccine, it is a weakened, atenuated virus, i.e. a vaccine that is classic. And yes, the preliminary interest is high, in hundreds of thousands, which is why we want to allow the pre-registration to increase the amount of vaccine in the Czech Republic. All available vaccines are delivered to the vaccine sites as well as to the practice of practitioners, pediatricians and outpatient specialists. What's important? We need to realise that both companies, Pfizer and Moderna, are working on modified variants precisely for omicron, and this is the vaccine that we should then use to re-inoculate. I just hope the pressure on both of these companies is enough to make the vaccine available as soon as possible. During the spring we intend to focus on preparing the vaccination strategy, which I will present in the Chamber of Deputies and the Government, for years to come, but especially for the autumn of this year. The vaccination must become a standard way of protecting our patients as it is for all vaccinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u128	Thank you. The Member is going to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u129	Thank you. Minister, I know the data, I read the monitors every morning at the coffee place, so I know the numbers. I know that among newly infected vulnerable patients, unfortunately, there are still few unvacated patients. And I asked you a question because now about a hundred vaccines are just six of the first ones, because those inoculated people aren't adding up what steps you're going to take or what steps you're doing. You're always talking about a booster dose. That's great, we all know that, but I keep asking about people who aren't inoculated at all, and you guys kept blaming us for not being able to individually address them as having a bad campaign. And I'm still trying to record your campaign somewhere or your individual approach, and I haven't noticed it. I'm asking about not a single dose. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u130	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that I have not fully understood. From the logic of the matter, you, like me, are inoculated, which is why you couldn't capture the campaign, the individual one. We've got everyone who's not inoculated today getting regular texts, getting invite letters, and getting those from their practical doctors. We've started this scheme here, and I'll admit it here, and I'll be happy to admit it, in cooperation with Minister Vojtěch at a time when governments took turns and when AntiCovid's team started working with this government. We continued with the individual invitation to the essays. And it is precisely one of the reasons why we have postponed 14 days of validity of the certificate, which is valid throughout the Republic from 1 February, that we should once again be able to invite an individual text message campaign, an individual invitation campaign, a letter to the attending doctor - today we have two systems linked and working together on that insurance company - all those who are failing the certificate because they received the second dose before 7 May, plus the unscathed ones. The estimate of those involved in Novavax is somewhere between 400 and 500,000, because that's the amount we monitor, who are willing to inoculate, but reject the mRNA vaccine. I have the mRNA vaccine, I have three doses, I suppose most of us, it's an excellent vaccine, but yes, the patient should have the right to choose, and in this case we're doing it for him. And once again, it was created following cooperation from the last few weeks with the Ministry of Health. This means, the only possible dispute that is... I am convinced that a campaign like that in Portugal - and we have learned from them - and in this way we are doing the individual invitational campaign, like for mammographic screening - will lead us to increase by the spring months those patients who received the first, second dose, but above all, we need to prepare a third-dose system, strengthening doses before the fall wave. I consider this to be very crucial in cooperation with practical doctors in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u132	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jan Síla, who will also interpel Mr. Vlastimil Válek, will now speak with his intervention, and Mrs. Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u133	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with the current spread of the omicron variant, effective monoclonal antibodies are no longer effective. It is necessary to replace them with new substances - sotrovimab in similar indications. I wanted to ask when it will be available in the Czech Republic or whether it already is. The effect of molnupinavir, Paxlovid and Remdesivir is not affected by S-protein mutations, so that it can continue to be treated. Antiviral and immunomodulation therapy in the upcoming omicron variant is unlikely to be different from previous therapy of the previous virus. Sotrovimab has already been approved by EMA. Furthermore, Evusheld is an approved FDA, indicated in immunocompromised patients. I ask: Do you have any information on when these effective new drugs will be available in the Czech Republic? As we all know, if the body lacks the necessary substances for proper immune response, it cannot respond correctly to vaccination or treatment. In addition to complying with the guidelines for strengthening immunity, special attention should be paid to the preventive application of vitamin D3, zinc, vitamin C and omega-3 fatty acids, which has been demonstrated by many studies. Their low saturation in our population is one of the reasons for the high mortality of covid-19 in our country, but not only in our country, but also in the surrounding countries. My second question is: Will you propose to motivate citizens to strengthen non-specific immunity through campaigns organised by the state and health insurance companies, including public media, with the recommendation of preventive use of these medicines, which will be subsidized by the state for vulnerable groups of people? Thank you for your attention and your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u134	Thank you for your interpelation and I'll ask the Minister to answer. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u135	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this question, because it is absolutely crucial for patients in the case of omicron mutation to receive treatment in time. The time when we have to get the medicine to the patient from the first symptoms is in two or three days, because the whole thing has to take place within, say, three days. And it should be noted here that anyone who has a positive PCR test should seek out a physician even if he does not have symptoms. Everyone, especially senior and risk groups, but senior especially if he has problems, if he has problems, he should seek a physician, not delay, not pass on any symptoms, but in time and needlessly seek the doctor out, because then we can start effective treatment on time. Yes, monoclonal antibodies don't work, some don't work against omicron mutation, but we have prepared, and it is necessary to thank Professor Vašák's deputy Vašáková and the entire clinical team, including the President of the Society of Infectious Medicine, Mr.Dlouhý. We set up three or four protocols, respectively. To make things simple, we have sent the protocols clearly, in clear terms, to all the practical doctors through the way of the company of practical medicine, and here again I would like to thank the chairman of this company, my colleague Šonka. So they have clear schematics on how to proceed. Moreover, for those who are discriminated against, we clearly and simply state which mutation is involved so that they can opt for the optimal treatment protocol. Basically, all antivirals that are on the market today are approved and good are now available in the Czech Republic, as well as monoclonal antibodies. The last preparation is now being discussed by the European Union with Pfizer, and the negotiations are very complicated, which my predecessor at the Ministry of Health could talk about if both contracts were not subject to business secrets. So I can assure all citizens that the treatment is available, we have all the necessary medications, protocols are well set, practical doctors are informed. We have a clear and understandable definition of which mutation it is, and we choose optimal treatment protocol accordingly. And the only thing I'm asking for and repeat: Let's go, come, if you have problems, if you have PCR+ or have symptoms, come to your doctor in time to get the treatment on time. That's absolutely crucial. Another thing is to promote immunity, a healthy way of life and a generally better condition, we both probably know an increase in some kind of general health, human potential. There are no recommended data at this time, or there are no studies, either prospective or randomized, to support the fact that supplementing the vitamin D population or other micronutrients can lead to some improvement in mortality or morbidity in patients with covid-19. There are no data supporting the claim that high doses of vitamin D, for example, administered in a high dose regimen, similar to vitamin C, or infusion therapy, as attempted in some oncological patients, are beneficial for preventing or treating covid-19 disease, but no doubt vitamins increase the protection of the organism. But the basic prerequisite for a good immune response in infectious conditions, including covid-19, is undoubtedly a healthy organism. And I thank the honourable Member very much for drawing attention to this problem. Citizens can be advised to apply general recommendations on healthy lifestyle including nutrition, adequate exposure to sunlight, efforts to maintain physical and mental health. However, vitamin D supplementation is particularly appropriate in cases of a proven deficiency of this vitamin. When is it? It is for people with risk factors for vitamin D deficiency. For example, they are patients with osteoporosis, obesity, malabsorption, hospitalized, and they all receive vitamin D and are covered by the insurance company. It is then advisable to consider the supplementation of vitamin D after consulting your doctor, because as are avitaminosis, there are hypervitaminosis. So I would like to conclude by summing up: I am very glad that we have already started a healthy nutrition project together with agriculture and education in the past government, and I would like it to be one of the pillars of preventive care for our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u136	Thank you. I would like to ask, Mr. Ambassador, do you have an additional question? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u137	Not really a question, like advice. Thank you for the floor. This interpelation of mine resulted from the intervention of a number of district doctors, practitioners who demanded that we ask why this Ministry of Health will not handle it. I am aware of those scientific studies that are controversial in many cases with these drugs, but they are demanding - or asking me - that these medicines, such as vitamin D, would be appropriate, and I do not know what I have named them there, others - to put them on, those people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u138	Thank you. The Minister will respond shortly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u139	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, yes, you are absolutely right and thank you. That is why we are the Chamber of Deputies, that is why you are a member of the Chamber of Deputies, and I beg you, let us hold a seminar together with the Society of Practice Doctors. Let's talk about the effective use of vitamins, and yes, I would like to appoint my colleague from Brno University Hospital, Dr. Gimunová, an anesthesiologist who is working very hard on this topic. However, registration-based, and we both know that, is something other than personal experience. There is certainly a need for the Chamber of Deputies to face the problem of healthy nutrition. It is not only a problem with doctors, it is a problem about agriculture, education and I believe it - I believe that because of healthy nutrition not only children, but the whole Czech population here we will find consensus across the political spectrum, although our opinions on different problems may be different, so we must find a consensus on the quality of nutrition, healthy nutrition and health of the Czech population. And I thank you very much for calling for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u140	Thank you, Minister. So now Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will speak to Minister Martin Baxa and prepare Mr Jiří Hájek. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, film incentives have been constantly being published since 2013. Their amount is in the initial amount of 500 million, then gradually 800 and the highest amount that was granted was CZK 1.3 billion. Why am I mentioning the amounts? I would like us to realise that, for example, the sum of CZK 1.3 billion generates income in the state register of CZK 9 billion, CZK 800 million and CZK 5 billion. [[17.30 hours]] In addition to the financial effect, film incentives have additional added value, and this is the rising reputation of the Czech Republic, Czech filmmakers, Czech craftsmen and services. All of this confirms that film incentives have a positive impact on economic growth, investment and employment. Thanks to your government, which plans to manage the budget commission for a quarter of a year, film incentives are still so-called ice. No one knows when they will be listed, whether they will be and at what level. Due to the current absence of film incentives from the Czech Republic, large foreign production is leaving Poland, Hungary or Romania and hundreds of millions of Czech crowns. Given that this government has the support for film incentives in its programming statement, I ask you, Minister, when will the film incentives be announced and for how much money you will fight for the film incentives? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u142	Thank you, Madame, and I will ask the Minister to answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I am very happy for the opportunity to speak here on the subject of film incentives. It is a subject that is now quite often mentioned, and I think it is very important that we be able to address it. Since these interpelations are undoubtedly also being watched by the public, I think it is an opportunity to actually clarify what the film incentive system in the Czech Republic means and therefore that the name of Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's interpelation The end of the film incentives in the Czech Republic does not correspond at all to the reality. The film incentive system is laid down by law, which is a very important matter. If the film incentives were to be stopped, the abolition of the film incentives would only be possible if the law, or the relevant part of the Audiovision Act were to be repealed, and I mean in that sense, if anyone were to consider actually removing the instrument completely. The film incentive arises in the Czech environment in a three-stage way, when the first step is the so-called registration. The registration is carried out by the State Cinematography Fund, which is by law an institution that operates this or which is in charge of film incentives. At this point, the applicant presents a scenario and a so-called cultural test to assess whether his project - film, series - meets the cultural and production criteria. If it passes through this, there will be a registration certificate. The only thing that has happened this year, ladies and gentlemen, is that these registrations have been suspended, not that the film incentives have been abolished, the film incentives have been stopped. The process of evaluating the film incentives is normally underway, going through the accounting of the parts that I will talk about shortly. The system just works normally. The second part is the so-called registration, which concerns those applicants who already have a registration certificate, who have therefore gone through the opening step, have a registration certificate, so it is clear that their project is being completed. At this second stage, the production budget of this project is being checked and therefore there is a clear prediction of the amount of future film incentive. The Fund will issue a certificate of registration to the applicant and only from this moment on the applicant spends its own funds in the Czech economy, so it is equal to the fact that the filming takes place. The whole process is normal. Only when the project is over, that is, the filming is finished, all costs are paid, only then the applicant supplies the State Cinematography Fund with billing and audit of eligible costs. The Fund shall carry out an evaluation of these notional accounts, i.e. all the statements received from the applicant, and on the basis of which the film incentive shall be paid. At this point, the Fund is managing completely standard applications received on the basis of registration, i.e. the projects carried out in the Czech Republic which are running and which are fulfilled in the way that I am talking about. Of course, the benefit of film incentives is quite obvious. I want to emphasise the role of economic but also the role from the point of view of the Czech Republic as a place that is presented, as a place where important cultural activities take place, money is spent. It is in our interest to deal with this. But what's important is that our government has an ambition to deal with film incentives systemically. The lady spoke of 800 million, which, from time to time, some money took place at some point in a certain year, creating an inexplicable environment either way. We therefore have the ambition to place film incentives in a specific framework and to lead to the film incentives being a way that will be sustainable, predictable in the future and which will result in the Czech Republic being able to make long-term use of this matter. It is obvious, and I would like to point out that the environment is changing very significantly. By the way, we're still talking about the movie incentive bill. Today, of course, in addition to traditional films, the Czech Republic is primarily the country of large serial productions of large companies whose names are obvious, and this creates a completely different environment than at a time when the film incentives were created as a tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u144	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u145	Dear Minister, thank you for your training. But maybe I'll surprise you. In 2013 - do you know who pushed for the movie incentives? It was Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Then former Secretary Schillerová took over. And I brought the incentive for film incentives to be launched at all. So thank you very much for your training, but of course I know all this. However, my questions were clear. When are you going to write the movie incentives and how much? I know you've been answering in a few interviews and always this vaguely, so I want a date and a sum from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u146	Thank you. The Minister is about to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u147	Thank you. I think, Madame, through the Vice-President, the film incentives have been addressed before the Audiovision Act. I'm sure there's no way to say that it's been enforced by the Minister of Finance. But I respect your point of view to point out what was just in that current time. The law was already being prepared considerably earlier and the main amendment was adopted in 2012, not during your reign. But that's not the important thing. The answer to your question must first be stated by the fact that we cannot talk about stopping or rewriting film incentives. The film incentive system is running. You're talking about the state as if the relevant part of the State Cinema Fund has ceased to function. This is a continuous process where, over time, it is registered, registered, charged when the funds are paid. The fund stopped only registration at the beginning of this year, i.e. the preliminary receipt of individual projects and their testing. Of course, we know that the interest in film production in our country is great, which is without discussion. I want to assure you that the draft budget will be submitted by the government to the Chamber of Deputies, but I want to assure you all that film incentives are envisaged. There was no report that our administration wanted to reduce, cancel, change the law and so on. In my opinion, the opportunity for this interpelation to be public, not only to you, Madame, but to all the audiences and Members, to people who are interested in it is stressed that we in the film incentives not only want to continue, because we know why they are important and we want to stress that the film incentives are running, but we also want to give them a framework that will be sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u148	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jiří Hájek, who will interpel Mr Vít Rakušan, will now appear and Mrs Hana Naiclerová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u149	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior. vážený Minister, in the Government's programme statement, the Security section states, among other things, that we will reduce unnecessary bureaucracy at the Police of the Czech Republic. So I ask you, what other concrete measures besides this example do you intend to implement in this area on the introduction of recording of operations and simplifying the file service? I am particularly concerned about whether measures are being prepared or developed within the independent Ministry of the Interior, which will help investigators, in particular, of serious economic crime in this matter so that they can primarily pursue their police work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u150	I thank you and ask Mr Vít Rakušan to respond to your interpellation. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u151	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, two things to add. Even in your question, you're talking about file service. I know it wasn't your question that was headed there, but let me make a quick remark. What format we inherited from our predecessors at the Ministry of the Interior was the proposal on archiving, writing service and its certification, so miserable that yesterday as a government we had to take a very radical step, and that we were looking for all possible means to postpone the effectiveness, the functioning of the certificate of the file service until next year. It was literally and to the letter slendrian, which could lead to a danger to the security of the Czech Republic in the case of armed forces and could lead to various arbitrations, courts that would apply to the Czech Republic. I mean, the file service itself is crucial, but here I have a little disappointment because it's speeding up, a test of the good writings, it's just gonna have to wait and we're trying to work here as quickly as possible and fix what we inherited. You mentioned recording operations, I would mention a number of other technical features that are possible - of course we are trying to implement them - and which we will also ask the new police president to include in the development concept of the Police of the Czech Republic as we will certainly be presented to us on the Security Committee. If you're asking directly about the specialized workplaces where the best investigators of the best work, it's all about taking them away from a number of non-police activities that they currently have to carry out. And there is one special department that has been defined by an action plan to combat organised crime, and this department, this department specializes in the administration of secured property by the police of the Czech Republic. These activities are clearly aimed at implementing the objective of the gradual removal of investigators of the most serious criminal case from normal non-police operatives. By the way, in this case, the Ministry of the Interior is also a model for other states and institutions, and it is, in any case, a priority for the nearest period. So this will be described in detail in the police development plan for the next few years, and I have already described several years running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u152	Thank you, Minister. There won't be an additional question. Mrs Hana Naiclerová, who will interpel Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, will now speak, and Mr Martin Hájek will prepare himself. I don't see the lady. [[Mrs Naicler stands behind the counter ready to speak.]] Sorry. Please, you have the floor. [[Fun in the hall.]] I thought you were going. Please, you have the floor, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u153	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, my question is addressed to Minister Stanjura and is on the subject of the Financial Administration's procedure for handling the application for a compensatory bonus. Perhaps our common wish and the main purpose of the compensation bonus was to make it quick and simple and to help entrepreneurs affected by this long covideo pandemic. According to my information, however, the Financial Administration is treating claims for a compensatory bonus in a very restrictive way. According to the law in force which we approved, two basic conditions were laid down, namely, the decrease in sales by 30 per cent in relation to the comparative period, and those revenues which had fallen should have been significant from the activities concerned. [[Meaningful?]] However, none of these listed taxatively or demonstrationally defined activities is mentioned by our law. However, it is actually the main argument of the Financial Administration to reject this request. In essence, applicants are confronted with the Financial Office as if not officially, only by telephone or email, and if the applicant does not persuade a member of a financial office, the application is rejected, a decision is made to suspend the application. That is what I think is not quite right, and I would very much like Minister Stanjura to examine this situation and, if possible, to change the attitude of the financial authorities, because I think it is those small entrepreneurs who have been exposed to problems for a very considerable time that are waiting very eagerly for the money. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u154	Thank you, Madame. The Minister is about to answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u155	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, after years, this is my premiere at oral interviews. I was quite looking forward to replying to the satisfaction of the Member. First the good news, then the others. I've had statistics processed to date. To date, approximately 22 400 requests for compensation bonus for some CZK 741 million have been processed. And the good news is that this was handled seamlessly by 99.8% of the requests. As a general rule, the compensatory bonus that we have repeatedly approved here, from the then-owned opposition benches, today it has been replaced, which means a great political consensus, we have approved the principle of the compensation bonus, then we have amended the law several times, and also the commission that evaluated the effectiveness and success of the covido programmes unanimously, and there were representatives of all the political parties from the previous House, which stated that this programme was successful, that it was perhaps the least bureaucratic and that it served for the purpose for which Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, established it. What's worse is that we're not there for almost 100 percent. I've had those messages since about last week. I must first say that I have entrusted Deputy Kouba, who is in charge of this, to request that he ask the Financial Administration to examine every individual case where the applicant feels that the Financial Administration has not sent it correctly to inform me of the results of the investigation. The argument is whether or not the Financial Administration can communicate informally with the applicant, whether by phone or by e-mail. My personal opinion that he can, but always has to proceed in favour of the applicant. [[is]] If the applicant fails to respond or does not convince, the compensation bonus should be paid, in the case of a control activity possibly requiring to be recovered and subject to sanctions. What the Financial Administration really can't and mustn't do, convince the tradesmen, self-employed people to voluntarily withdraw their application. I don't think that's entirely the case with the Financial Administration. But even from the percentage that I have mentioned, it is clear that in the vast majority it is done correctly. But that doesn't mean we're not supposed to deal with the other cases. First of all, I would like to apologize to those who believe that they have been wronged by the state in this case, with the fact that we will examine these cases and that the Financial Administration will proceed in their cases - as in the vast majority of other cases - in a legal way. [[17.50 hours]] Let me make a general point. I have a little time. When I spoke at the press conference after putting into office about my personal priorities on the question I received, one of the four that I mentioned was a change in the Financial Administration's approach to taxpayers. I'm serious. I think that this approach is supposed to be client and partner, that it should not be the fear of the taxpayers of kneeling and other methods, and in this way I will try to make the Financial Administration proceed. Just to clarify, I think everyone in this room knows it, but for clarification. No finance minister controls the Financial Administration, nor my predecessors, nor I, nor the future finance minister controls, but has political responsibility. That's why I'm dealing with the problem, which is why I gave the instructions, and I believe that this will really work out, and that none of the taxpayers will get hurt. If they feel that they are not in the right, they have remedies, and I suggest they take advantage of those remedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u156	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if there will be an additional question? It's not like that, thank you. Mr Martin Hájek will now speak with his intervention, intersect Minister Petr Gazdík, and prepare Mrs Milada Voborská. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u157	Mr President, honourable members and members of the Government, honourable colleagues and colleagues. My question is directed at the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík. Dear Minister, the government's programming statement states, and I quote: "We will focus on reducing the total volume of education and support the quality of understanding before the quantity of memorization." End of quote. The topic is related to the revision of the so-called framework education programmes. I want to ask you, as an elementary school teacher, what are your ideas about reducing your education, what should be involved in this reduction and when should schools feel it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u159	Mr President, honourable Members, dear colleagues. Reduction of the framework education programmes and, above all, their change is part of the 2030 Strategy, in which I try to follow up on my predecessor. One of the major problems of the Ministry of Education and Education in general over the last 30 years is non-continuity. The average minister of education lasted 21 months, many of the sensible things started, but they did not finish, their followers did not continue, and the result is education, which never made it to the end. The 2030 strategy is something on which both the school experts and the professional public and the political public have agreed, and it is something that clearly defines that there must be a change in the framework education programme. The change is happening, it's happening very actively. There are clearly defined frameworks for this strategy, who will, when and what will do, and in addition to the Ministry and other commissions, the times when this will happen are defined. The most important thing in this area is to happen this year and next year. In addition to the fact that the 2030 Strategy works with the professional public, with individual subject committees and associations, the Minister of Education also has his expert group, which is supposed to be a sort of supervisor of changes in education. In the past, we have tried many times to reduce our education, but unfortunately, every time individual companies sat down, the result was that there was actually more of the study that we wanted from students or students. That's why the expert group of the minister is supposed to look at it with perspective, not from the position of individual expert committees and associations. You see, we are also discussing in the Chamber of Deputies, what affects today's children and what should change. I'm sure we can agree that today's children have little sport and little movement, and it would be worth another hour of physical education or exercise. We can certainly agree that it is necessary to promote the education of patriotism, media education, computer science and ICT. We could talk about critical thinking, we could talk about technical skills, we could talk about man and the world of work, because today's children are losing manual skill, and many other things. But at a time when we fit all of this into school education programs or a framework education program, children could not go to school for just 25 to 30 hours, as the individual curriculum for each year says today, but children would walk for about 40 hours, thereby ruining their childhood or youth. This is something that is simply not possible, and therefore the task of the Ministry of Education, as well as of all of us, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, will be to affect parents in particular, because each of us went to school, most of us have very positive memories of it, and we want the best for our children, and therefore we think that the way we have learned, they too must learn. And we might feel that if we don't know the Archimédův' law - or our children won't - by heart, they're learning worse. It will be the task of the Ministry of Education and of all of us as politicians to explain that more important is the ability to put things into context and in the modern world to navigate in a completely different way from what we or our grandparents have learned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u160	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask, will there be an additional question? It's not like that. Mr Milada Voborská will now speak with an interview with Minister Petr Gazdík. Please note that the end... in that case, I'm sorry, this interpellation can no longer fall, because the last interpellation can be loaded five minutes before the end of the interpellation. For this reason, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies' meeting for three minutes until 18.00, when we will continue with the further approved programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u161	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, dear members of the government. We'll continue the agenda for our meeting. I would just like to point out that I will be voting in person with a replacement card number 28. We should continue with paragraph 43, the Government Bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the limitation of the impact of selected plastic products on the environment, House press 56. However, I have an application here for a priority right discussion. This is Chairman Fiala reporting, and I'm giving him my word. Prime Minister, please. [[Strong noise in the hall, some Members don't sit in their seats.]] Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to settle down, lower your voice, and allow President Fial to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because today is such a special day that we were supposed to have an opposition window from 18:00 to 21:00, unfortunately, no law we have proposed has entered the opposition window, so in my opinion, the agreements we have made do not work. In my opinion, sitting here is completely pointless. In my opinion, it is important to prepare for tomorrow's meeting day. That is why I am asking you all to take a break from the 60-minute meeting of the SPD members' club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-27-ps2021-006-07-001-077.u163	Well, that was a request for an hour's break. I'm just gonna ask if today's deal was to continue until 9:00 p.m., so I'll meet you at 7:00 p.m. [[Protests in the hall.]] Because it's not clear, I'm just gonna ask for a three-minute break and ask the club president to come to my front desk, because I have information that there was an agreement that today would continue until 9:00 p.m. [[Club presidents and government members gather at the front desk and negotiate.]] [[The hearing shall be suspended from 18.03 to 18.07 hours.]] Dear colleagues, colleagues, the SPD has asked for an hour-long break that would exceed 19 o'clock, and since we have not voted that after this time we could vote and continue the negotiations, we have to end today's meeting day. Meet me tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you and have a good evening.
