ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u1	32. Government draft law on special reasons for stopping execution and amending related laws /house print 217/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. With the authority of the government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, whom I ask to take the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. In a nutshell, I'm just going to say that it's basically a law that you originally knew as a gracious summer, and now a similar law comes along, which has won such a more professional, media name for a gracious summer II. I will just introduce you to what this proposal is about, and then I will expect a debate in which colleagues are enrolled. So the proposed legislation renews from 1 September to 30 November 2022 the possibility for executions to meet the conditions of the so-called merciful summer. In the course of the gracious summer, the executioner shall stop the execution in favour of the creditor if it was initiated before the first wave of the gracious summer, that is to say before 28 March 2021, and the debtor shall, within the period between 1 September and 30 November 2022, pay the executed principal and the fixed amount at the costs of the execution, or the principal and determined amount at the costs of the execution by 31 August 2022 shall be recovered. At the same time, the judicial bailout shall exempt the debtor from payment of additional recovered claims and related claims of accessories. Now I would like to give the main account of the difference between the graceful summer II and the gracious summer I. The debtor will newly have to inform the bailiff in writing within the prescribed time limit that he is requesting the opening of the procedure under the legal regulation of the so-called "merciful summer." The debtor will be able to ask the judicial executor to communicate the amount to be paid to meet the conditions of the so-called "merciful summer" or to indicate whether this amount has already been recovered before the date of entry into force of this proposal. The bailiff shall be obliged to reply to that request within 15 days of receipt of the request. The proposal shall also address the situation in which the debtor requests notification of the amount at the end of the period laid down for payment. The flat-rate reimbursement of the costs of the execution of the judicial executor under the so-called "merciary summer" is now set at CZK 1,500 without value added tax. This amount should better reflect the amount of the costs of the judicial executor. In order to remove the uncertainties, it is explicitly stated to the extent to which the costs of execution which were decided before 1 September 2022 and which had been recovered before that date belong to the judicial bailout officer. Similar legislation on costs authorised shall also be included. Furthermore, the Civil Procedure Code updates the list of claims outside the enforcement of the decision, supplementing benefits under the Law on granting benefits to persons with disabilities, since cash benefits of social care are no longer provided, but benefits which have replaced them. In addition, the allowance for care and provision, i.e. the benefit payable to young adults who were in foster care or in institutional education, until the date of the acquisition of maturity or full legal status, is added. This list is followed by the legal regulation of the protected account. In the order of execution, the list of elements of the so-called financial overview is extended. The aim of this amendment is to improve the orientation of participants in the enforcement procedure. It is also proposed that the provisions of the order of execution governing the conditions for the execution of the sale of movable items relating to users of old-age pensions and other vulnerable persons, the service of documents in the execution procedure by means of a central official plate, the possibility of persons entitled to obtain access to the electronic execution file may also be used in proceedings initiated before the date of entry into force of Act No. 286/2021 Coll. for the future, i.e. from the date of entry into force of this proposal. It is proposed that the Act should take effect on 1 September 2022, and it is proposed that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the proposed proposal in the first reading in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Výborný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Government, fellow Members, I will now do very briefly only my reporting duty and, if I may, I will speak in a timely manner, in a proper debate and also in a brief manner. Let me therefore state that the Government has discussed the draft law on special grounds for the cessation of enforcement on the amendment of the laws relating to it and on 18 May it has submitted it to the Chamber of Deputies, requesting that it be discussed in the procedure of Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. in an accelerated procedure. Since this request was thus formulated, and I, as the President of the Club of Parliament, was also discussed with the Presidents of all the Members' Clubs in the Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of which it was agreed that the law would be discussed in this way and that Section 90 would not be vetoed, so I took the liberty of convene a subcommittee on the issue of enforcement and insolvency. I considered it important that the press, although it is likely to be approved in an accelerated procedure so that it could also be discussed on the ground of this subcommittee, which is to deal with the enforcement issue. This morning, as a subcommittee, we met with the participation of four deputy ministers from the Ministry of Justice, and we had an hour-long debate on this proposal itself. Although the Rules of Procedure do not impose this on us, but knowing that the law will probably not be discussed in the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we discussed it as a subcommittee and adopted this resolution with which I would like to introduce the honourable House: "The Sub-Committee of the Constitutional and Insolvency Committee discussed the Government's proposal for a law on specific reasons for the cessation of execution and the amendment of related laws, the House press 217, and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic approve it in the submitted text." [[12.10 hours]] So much for the resolution of today's subcommittee meeting. For me as rapporteur, that is probably all at the moment, because there is no need to mention the substance of the law itself. Then I will say more for myself in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u5	Thank you and I hereby open a general debate, which was the first to which Mr Výborný came forward. You have your word again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So I will now follow up on my news report with a brief contribution, which I would divide into several parts. First of all, and I think it is important to recall this so-called graceful summer, which is a blessing to the state - because I stress, the forgiveness of accessories concerns only executions, where debts to the state are enforced, or to organisations with a state interest such as urban organisations, typically transport companies - the first wave took place at the turn of last year and this year and was burdened by some problematic circumstances which eventually led the current government and Minister Blažek after consultation with the Chamber of Deputies to submit this bill. Originally, it was supposed to be an amendment. Even on the basis of some debates within the Legislative Council of the Government, there is therefore lex specialis before us for a gracious summer, the so-called Grace Summer II, which, paradoxically, will fall this time into a grandmother's summer, because, as has been said, the effectiveness is proposed since 1 September. What I want to say, however, about the problematic circumstances which led the government and which I agree with, is to present this House to the press. One, and I'll start with a positive, not the problematic element, but the positive. It turns out that when the last House incorporated and approved this institute in the framework of the transitional provisions of the Amendment to the Enforcement Order, it actually met almost all the actors in the process. Those who have criticized this thing for a long time, and I actually understand it from a material point of view, were executors, executors, but the gracious summer did not really help only tens of thousands of debtors from debt traps, but also helped creditors. The positive response from both the large institutional creditors of the state is documented. When we look at the statement from the Director of General Health Insurance, Mr. Kabátek, when we look at the statement made by the Director of the Transport Company of the capital city of Prague and many other institutions, it suddenly turned out that during the implementation they themselves saw that they were able to raise small amounts on the principals, because - and I stress this - a gracious summer is not a black line and a message to the public: Debts do not have to be paid, or vice versa. It is a clear message that the debt on the principal, what was actually created or on the basis of which the debt was created, must be returned to the last crown, to the last penny also to the creditors, it must be paid. That's the basic condition of a graceful summer. What is forgiven is packed accessories in the form of interest, periodic penalty payments, fines, etc. To be absolutely specific, I'm going to mention numbers that are still incomplete at the moment, because we're struggling a little bit here with how quickly those data are entered into the execution register, but at the General Health Insurance Agency, the circus last month was CZK 174.8 million, which was CZK They returned to the general health insurance company at one time and to which the insurance company would have either never, or in a very distant horizon. Forgiven for this was CZK 322,8 million on the increased accessories. More than 15,000 people have used it in the VZP. At the Prague Capital Transport Company, these numbers are similar: 14.5 million returned to the capital city of Prague and to the Transport Company on the debtor principals, but forgiven more than 146 million for accessories. By the way, it also shows the reason that led us to present this institute. It is ten times the principal, and it is an inheritance that we bear and for which the state, which made it possible years ago, bears its share of responsibility, and that is the possibility of an immoral increase, up to a really immoral increase in accessories in the form of interest. It is not normal for the principal to generate more than ten times the amount owed. This is what a gracious summer tries to fulfill and what the benefit is, or the Czech mercy of the state towards debtors. So it's just specific numbers, just to be clear, how the graceful summer of I went. We often face questions or criticisms, reservations that a gracious summer was unsuccessful because only a percentage of those who could actually use it participated in it. Yes, I'm at the beginning, and last year he never claimed to be used by anyone he could touch. We knew that this would be the order percentage of debtors, but for me personally, every personal story is important, where it helped bring this man back to a merciful summer, often the whole family, mom, single mom, and so on, to real life and standard socio-economic relationships. That means - and we could see and hear those stories in the media maybe dozens - they're situations where they were struggling with execution traps, and at this point, by being able to pay back the principal, so they're often forgiven for multiple, multiple accessories and they're going back to a state that will help not only them and creditors in the finals, but, I mean, even the state. That's why the government finally comes up with it, because it turns out that when people, citizens, work as a standard, they're not in the gray economy, which means they're doing social and health, they're not out of the system, they're not black passengers, and we're going to help them get back into that system. Even if it's only hundreds or thousands of others who join it, it makes sense. And I would like to thank everyone here at the moment - to thank everyone who has been actively involved in the presentation of the opportunity to use the graceful summer in the first wave, whether it were nonprofit organizations such as Man in Need, such as the Charity of the Czech Republic, such as the Institute for Pre-debtion Prevention, and I could continue, as well as representatives of municipalities and cities and their established societies. Prague could be - when I see here Mrs Zajíčková, Mr Nacher - an example of this. In the subway there was information about the possibility of using a gracious summer. Prague has done its best to get it to individual actors. It will be good and there will probably be a larger time delay of the summer, when we can work on making sure that those who for some reason did not take advantage of the graceful summer in the first wave do so in the second round, and the reasons for not using them were different. Then these are the factual reasons why we are discussing the law here today, why we want to repeat it once and for all. Unfortunately, we have met with a not entirely helpful approach - I underline the word of some - some executives. Again, we were able to perceive these things in the media and on social networks, and that is why we were looking for a way with the Minister to prevent some authorities from communicating. Therefore, and I would like to stress this, a new thing - the law sets a time limit of 15 days when a bailout must answer the debtor's basic information about how much he owes on the principal and where the money owed on the principal is to be sent. If they do not do so, the period of three months running from 1 September will be extended to this case, the period of non-communication from the executor will be extended for this enforcement procedure by the relevant days of non-communication. It's fair, that's how it's supposed to be. There's no reason why today, when these things are all electronized so that the bailiff doesn't respond within the time limits themselves. That's why this thing is incorporated here. [[12.20 hours]] The second information, of course, that Graceful Summer fell into a period that we did not anticipate ahead of time, as was the collapse of Bohemia Energy and other suppliers, when suddenly many citizens began to come up with bills from the suppliers of the last instance, which multiplied by what those households had previously been prepared and accustomed to and, of course, this was reflected negatively in the possibility of using the Institute of Merciful Summer. The third thing I would also like to mention was some interpretational ambiguities. Typically, we dealt with this with health insurance companies, when the question of whether the penalty is an accessory or a principal was addressed for a month. Finally, this has also been clarified. And in this law, it is already firmly defined so that no one and no executors can claim that the penalty remains a principal, it simply is an accessory, and this is how it will be treated within this second graceful summer. In conclusion, let me say one more important thing that has not been said here. From a number of comment points, including the Office of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, there was one comment that has its relevance, and I completely agree with it. We are creating a certain injustice here by dealing with it, or this is how it will only be offered to solve things enforced in court executions. Tax and administrative executions, those handled by the IRS and others, so they don't touch it. That's right. However, this is due to the fact that we are really only dealing with the areas of the judicial executions, originally to be amended by the execution order. And we have to open other laws here, like, for example. the tax rules. And there is an agreement at this point also a political agreement on the ground plan of those key ministries - the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, that this issue, this matter, means the possibility of repaying the one-time-due principal for those executions which are enforced by the tax administration, so that it will be prepared and presented to the Government of the Chamber of Deputies in the next year 2023, and we should also approve this, and this certain elementary injustice should be corrected. Dear colleagues, allow me to ask you to approve this law in the accelerated procedure at first reading, so that it can be discussed during the month of June by the Senate, and it has actually taken effect on 1 July, 1 September, so that we can also create enough room for all those who are engaged in preparing the issue. It is also the fact that it supports the law - and I want to say this in conclusion, it promotes mutual solidarity both within families, a wider family, and also within society. It's really about the fact that the family, the relatives, the friends who help the person to get out of the execution trap often lay down on the debtor's principal. That's right. I think it is good to support family, friendly solidarity as politicians. But I also want to thank those organizations that create the conditions for this, for example, when a person in distress in the first wave handed out a mandatory 11 million on gifts he received on a special donation account, after very careful consideration of the situation of the person concerned, that he really deserved this immediate help, because it was often the case of mothers who were left alone with children, and even the principal could not get the funds anywhere. But with this one-time help, this gift allowed them to get rid of the executions for CZK 105 million. Those 105 million were given to those creditors, but at the same time in these cases - and I think there were more than 200 of them, these particular persons were helped to get rid of their debts. Thanks to all those who help in this way and thank us for supporting this institute, and for the very last time, because even the often mentioned gracious summer of the Old Testament Bible was once every 49 years. I do not know when the next time, but it will certainly not be in this parliamentary term, will be a similar step prepared and approved. I think that this is really supposed to be a very special institute and handshake for those who need help, and so I have also stressed the benefits that this brings to all the actors in the process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u7	Thank you. We have a factual point here, and this is Mr Stanislav Berkovec. It was a mistake, so I'm sorry. So the next person who is enrolled in the debate is Mrs Lesenská. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I'm performing for the so-called Grace Summer II, as a club guarantor for this law. The SPD keeps saying that debts are to be paid and have to be paid. At the same time, it has long been pointed out that the current system is not ideal. There are hundreds of thousands of people in executions, and we're looking for a possible solution to help them. We promote the nationalisation of executors and, at the same time, we promote that, like the courts, judicial bailiffs are subject to the principle of so-called territoriality. That is, to assign the debtor an executor a court according to his place of residence. This will significantly reduce the amount recovered by possible travel expenses and other expenses. Increase the chance to recover debt and thus satisfy creditors and ultimately save the state on any social benefits paid, which one might need in a debt trap. Financial literacy needs to be encouraged in people who may even be affected by a debt trap and execution. The current situation, where huge interest is often added to the principal, interest on late payments or periodic penalty payments, and interest on periodic penalty payments is unfortunately a fact. Mostly, the debtor does not receive the amount due as such, i.e. the principal, but subsequently, the accrued interest makes the tax individuals simply unable to pay the amount. Thus, the Graceful Summer is an action that can greatly help people affected. If someone has a debt to the State or to another public creditor, then the debtor, subject to the conditions, is sufficient to pay the principal and the lump sum of the costs to the executor. It can be up to tens of thousands of dollars and a great help to people. After 28 January 2022, the debtor cannot, by paying the amounts laid down, fulfil the condition for the cessation of execution within the period of grace mentioned, i.e. the original one, and therefore the press, which is at this time discussed as fully classified item number 29. What, then, does the press bring 217? I would stress only a few changes, because the translator and my previous speaker have already spoken about this in a comprehensive way. Renewing the possibility of paying the fixed amounts within the so-called Grace Summer contained in the new Act on special grounds for cessation of execution and amending related laws will allow mandatory ones who have not used the Institute from 28 October 2021 to 28 January 2022 to settle their debts to the State and other public-law beneficiaries, which will contribute to reducing the number of executions conducted in the Czech Republic. There will therefore be a reduction in the burden from the entire enforcement system and a reduction in the pressure on the social system, since the reduction in the number of executions could also result in a reduction in the number of persons receiving social benefits and the transfer of parts of these persons from the grey economy to legal employment. It is stated which benefits are not subject to the enforcement of the decision, i.e. (?) execution. At the same time, it will allow newly anchored benefits to be sent to a protected account. The flat-rate reimbursement of the costs of the execution of the judicial executor in the so-called Grace Summer 2 is now set at CZK 1,500. This amount should probably better reflect the amount of the costs of the judicial executor. Graceful summer continues not to apply to tax and administrative executions. This would require a broader and more detailed assessment of the problem. Above all, however, it should be pointed out that neither the tax nor administrative rules fall within the scope of the petitioner's statement, as the explanatory memorandum to this press also states. [[12.30 hours]] We are convinced of the contribution of this law and for this reason the SPD will vote in favour of its adoption at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u9	Thank you and please the next envoy - and this is Mr Patrik Nacher. In the meantime, I will still read some apologies, namely the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek on Wednesday, or today from 11 to 12 for work reasons. Furthermore, we are correcting Mr Heller's apology, today only from 13 o'clock for health reasons, and we also apologise to Mr Staněk from 12 to the end of the day for working reasons, from 12 to the end of the day for working reasons we also apologise to Mr Bureš and Mr Kott also apologizes for working reasons, from 12.30 to 14 o'clock. And now I beg Mr Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that we can discuss today and even approve, as part of one vote, a gracious summer, the so-called Grace Summer II. I'm gonna take a little field trip here on this subject. I'm sorry, it's probably not here for the torso of those Members who are still sitting here, but it's more for the outsiders because they're asking us about it, and so I would share with you, on the one hand, some chronology of the matter and some logical explanation, because this proposal, this gracious summer, doesn't create a classic tension between the coalition, the opposition, so it may be less interesting for the media and journalists, so all the more we have to do here, especially the three of us and other colleagues who are interested in it, because it just doesn't cause a classic argument between us, and by agreeing, it might fit in. What is a gracious summer has already been said here. I'm just going to repeat, because the questions keep repeating themselves and walking about the same or similar to all of us: a gracious summer concerns all debtors who owe public creditors, but for whom it is enforced by a private bailiff. We then came across, of course, cases, typically such as VZP, where VZP enforces debt by its own help, and that no longer falls there. Well, let's just make it clear what kind of cases are in there. Private creditors also do not belong here, however they can volunteer for the gracious summer. It has the limit, of course, that at that point they do not have a guaranteed reward executor, which was previously 750 plus VAT, now 1,500 plus VAT, and the executor can charge them a fee according to the tariff, so then the question is whether a private creditor will continue to do so despite the initial challenge. But we were glad that some banks applied for it. The third condition that the execution must be by 28 October 2021. That's the answer to the potential objection that by having a gracious summer II here, theoretically, someone could stop paying now, go into execution because they know they'll forgive him somehow. This situation cannot happen, execution has to start by 28 October 2021. That date isn't random, that's the date from when the Grace Summer I began. That means some preparation and calculation to do it: I'm going to be irresponsible now and I'm going to solve it with Grace Summer II, here in this case they have no role to play. In the beginning, why we actually came up with this: the very initial impulse had a colleague Výborný, which is why it is also called a gracious summer. That's another answer to the question of why a gracious summer, once it was for the winter, now it's in the fall. This is based on the terminus techicus from the Bible and forgiveness of debts to its debtors. Today we argued on the subcommittee, whether it was once every 49 years or once every 25 years, I leave it to Bible experts, but that's where the term "merciful summer" is being recruited. It doesn't have anything to do with the summer months, please, that's what I'd like to say here. And in the beginning - I wrote down three basic reasons why then we went in together and generated this amendment for a gracious summer I. First, the state should set an example. I'll remind you that we've been cultivating the environment of execution and insolvency for the past five years, but it often affects private creditors. And we said that the state should set an example, so when we say something about what a private creditor should do, then the state and public institutions should set an example and not order it to someone else. Secondly, it is a reaction to this - and a colleague here has already talked about it Výborný - bloated accessories. By the way, the numbers we have from VZP and the Prague Capital Transport Company clearly show us that what the debtors paid during the graceful summer saved them tenfold on accessories, so we were right about the fact that the accessories would be more than tenfold on the original debtor's principal. The third reason was covid. Let me just remind you that we made this decision when there was a covid and when there was a threat and a threat - and now there will be some inertia - that there will be a greater number of people in execution, and we need to deal with these measures preventively. I'll just remind you, because it's also unknown what public creditors are. Those are the ones I said should set an example. It is the Czech Republic, the local authorities, i.e. the regions, cities, municipalities, state contribution organizations, State fund, public universities - it is not known very well, voluntary union of municipalities, subscribing organization of local authorities, but also such Czech television, Czech Radio, health insurance companies or legal entities in which the state or local self-government unit has majority ownership, these are typically transport companies. Statistically, we did such statistics before the grace summer I - about 33, 34 percent of all executions, that is, a third. When you analyse the third of the executions that go to public creditors, 15 percent of the total amount of health insurance companies and ministries and other central bodies, including public universities, Czech Television, Czech Radio, 9 percent, transport companies then 3%. That means, in the end, we're actually going to one-third of the executions, one-third of the executions that are so layered across different institutions. On a grudge that graceful summer I hope it wasn't successful, just to remind the context that a graceful summer Unlike this two, he was one of the thirty - let my colleague correct me if it was 30, 32 - amendments. This was one of the amendments, it was not the whole amendment, it was not a new code or something, it was one amendment. Then there are other amendments, typically stopping futile bailouts, where we are talking about hundreds of thousands of suspended executions since 1 January. Just to remind you, it is one of the amendments, and as has already been said here, only two companies or two institutions that have been listed here, the VZP and the Transport Enterprise of the capital city of Prague, have stopped 30,000 executions, or 30,000 debtors have stopped executions, which seems to me that this is one amendment, so it seems like a decent number to me, however if we took the percentage of that whole, I also expected it to be better. But we have to put it in some context. [[12.40 hours]] And now, what was the problem, why more people didn't take part in this, and how we respond to it in the gracious summer of II, that's essential. First, there were some problems and some misinterpretations that I didn't quite understand how this simple thing, like someone paying the principal and the basic reward of the executor, and yet it can be misinterpreted by the fact that there are different loopholes and fencing with words. So at the beginning there was a delay in, for example, in the fact that the periodic penalty payments for health insurance companies were interpreted by some as not belonging to the accessories, but to the principal, and this delayed it. Those people were exposed, penned, and ran away for some time. That's what we're saying, it's explicitly written there. When you find it there, who would care, the penalty and the penalty shall be considered as accessories for the purposes of paragraphs 1 to 9. Second thing: bailiffs sometimes - I don't always say - answered late, and some at all. This is one of the few standards that applies from to, which means one day it will start, it will end, and then it will not come back. That means that when the bailiff sends it late, he cuts the debtor short, limits the time he can respond to, react, maybe have some money. We answer that by taking the limit of 15 days, and I'm glad that the stimulus I came up with is also there - that is, the moment the bailiff answers later than in 15 days, so the days he answers later will be extended by this gracious summer. So he's actually having a... de iure ends on 30 November 2022, de facto, when someone answers later, will end as many days later as the bailiff will reply to the debtor later, which is good, because what the debtor will do if someone answers late, then perhaps the executive chamber will deal with it in some administrative procedure, but the debtor will take nothing of it. The third thing is communication, awareness. That's what I think we have at this point, that we're in good shape. It was, as I said earlier, one of the 30 amendments, and it could fit in. Now it's like they said, lex specialis, one thing, graceful summer II, everyone already knows the name. As I said on the subcommittee today, the name is literally sexy, so it's better to communicate, we have time. It's from September 1, 2022, which means there's enough time to show it to all the debtors under which it belongs. And here I wanted to give an example of how it worked in Prague. Prague could be a good example for all regions. It was such a logo, it was all over the subway, there was even a loop on the subway, and there you have, who it concerns, where the person is supposed to call, how to use it, where to make a call, where to make a call, where to give him advice. But beware, Prague - and I really must commend it here, I am the opposition representative - went even further. We have created a methodology in Prague, a whole methodology that would be good to eventually take over other regions, municipalities and so on. In that methodology, you have the complete detail of how a gracious summer takes place, who is a public creditor, the legitimate one, how it can be used, who, on the contrary, does not apply to the things, the gracious summer, but beware, we go into such detail that for the individual city companies where it belongs, you have a normal analysis here. For example, the Prague transport company: What kind of executives enforce black rides, there's a contact, an e-mail, a cell phone. If you look further, who's going to enforce all this at the city library, how can it be arranged and paid at the collection of municipal waste, fees, fine city police, debts at TSK, Prague gas and so on, and so on, even the owed rent from residential, non-residential premises. That's one of the things, by the way. This means that this communication is extremely important, because those black rides have those people for it, but what I ended up with, the rent due, there is a problem that often the principal is in tens of thousands, and the principal - the rent due - maybe for CZK 30,000 can stop the execution for CZK half a million. And that pays the community, the creditor, to get the rent they'd never get, even the debtor, because he gets out of the gray zone. Marek the Výborný and the Minister spoke of this. But the man doesn't have the 30,000 crowns, he doesn't have, so he has to have enough time to put the money aside, and here I'm going to remind the activity of člověk in distress, who created here as a foundation where the funds were collected for this purpose, and there's an open space where, unfortunately, it's a vicious circle. We were also talking to the banks, if they could not lend the borrowers in these cases to lend them, for example, the CZK 30,000 for the rent due, to get rid of the giant execution, but the banks naturally run into scoring and the fact that they can't lend to someone who's in execution, the bank would get into trouble. That means we have two more months here to get these people who want to get out of this proactively, to help them get the resources. I'm saying we're talking about debt, where the principal itself is relatively high, we're talking about tens of thousands, which is what it takes to pay the rent. A final remark on the gracious summer of I and II, which we cannot influence, and that is the only thing. Everything else I've said so far, we can influence that. That means, we've changed it, we've put the limits on it, we've tightened it up for the bailiffs, we're going to communicate better and more efficiently, we know how, we have a methodology, we have a chronology. What we can't control is what happened to the Grace Summer I, and that's what it's going to fall into. Just a graceful summer I was through Christmas, a gracious summer I was at a heightening of energy. I've got a whole series of feedbacks where people had the funds ready, but they'd rather pay the extra energy costs, electricity, gas, and not take advantage of the graceful summers of I. And we can't influence that, because you can expect that, as you can see the price of energy and other commodities developing, it's possible that even the graceful summer II will just catch some debtors in a period when they'll be happy to have energy to pay, that is, this can also be missed. And that's something we really can't control. We cannot influence the economic situation, the economic time of the gracious summer II, and how it will work at that moment. So that's why it's good that we're already discussing this at the beginning of June, because here we have June, July, August, three months to prepare everyone. At the same time, I'd like to invite you, those interested, 22. 6. 2022 with my colleague Výborný we are doing a seminar on this topic, where we went into even more detail, where we would present some things and possibilities. Thank you for your support, I would also like to thank the Ministry for the communication that has been done. I'm glad this is a beautiful example of when coalitions and opposition can work, because in a gracious summer That was the other way around. I was a coalition MP, Marek Výborný was a opposition, now we have exchanged it, and yet there is a graceful summer II that will help, I hope, even more people than the graceful summer I helped. Thank you for your support and I look forward to some interesting suggestions. Have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Věra Adámková is another member of the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a few observations from practice on a very good thing, such as a gracious summer. Here I would just like to learn our lesson - from everything one has to learn, and I hope we've put it that way. As my previous speakers said, it was one of the many amendments, and we did not assume that there would be a problem. I guess the devil sleeps in detail, as they say. So we were so happy to say, it's delicious, something has been done for the debtors, because I think, despite all the good work, of course, many are really in that trap not entirely by their own doing, and it's good to help them. [[12.50 hours]] How colleagues here got to the topic of summer or what the season is. If we wanted the whole atmosphere that is full of friendship, and I am happy about it, we can say that it can also be in the translations of the old texts, where we have the summer, year and so on, so it is certainly a very interesting topic for people who are dealing with this. In health insurance, it really happened what we didn't expect here either, which means the lawyers didn't want to acknowledge our interpretation at the first moment. It may be because - and colleagues who are aware of the rights - they know that the legal opinion can be different. We just didn't realize it as a layman in this direction, so there was some delay. It's a lesson for all of us, I think, even for colleagues who have been dealing with the pretext that it should have been more communicative. But no one thought of this issue that there was going to be a hitch, but it did. So I'm glad that it may be removed by now because, for your information, it could be said that the interest was really not exactly what we expected. But on the other hand, it must be said that this has helped a really quite large number of debtors who have burdened these debts. And to be perfectly honest, of course, as my colleague, the insurance company, said here, and I speak especially for the largest health insurance company, they have, of course, soft enforcement, which means, they are still arguing, arguing, but at the moment there was a penalty, many guesses were not more or less possible. The insurance company has the opportunity to make a certain payment schedule there, so it is also possible to accommodate. But at a time when it is not necessary to pay the penalty, which often exceeds the amount due, I believe that the aid is clear and significant. As regards the increased remuneration of the bailiffs, a question was asked at a press conference after the board of directors on Monday from journalists who are following this issue. I think it is a good thing that this is an incentive for, of course, such proactive participation to be there to help clients to repay the amount due. So I'm really glad we're getting to that part of Grace Summer II. He's not here anymore, we believe, today's health insurance problem. At least we hope that no one will find him again, I hope that lawyers will have no other legal opinion there, because that would not be entirely pleasant there. Thank you to colleagues who have taken up the revised version, I am glad that we were able to discuss it today, and I hope that there will be a real consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u13	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? I don't see anyone. This concludes the general debate and I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u14	Thank you for the floor. I will only speak with thanks because it seems as I have listened to the speeches, it seems from all the factions that this law could be passed by all the political parties that have entered the Chamber of Deputies. And since I've been here for the third term, I would like to say a generalisation of why I think, for example, this law has happened and could have happened at all. I don't think we're elected here to love each other here, but we're not elected here to hate each other. When the founder of this state, our first president, said: Democracy is a debate, so when I freely translate it into our space, it means: Act, act and act again! This law was not born in such a way that there was an immediate agreement on its wording, but it was, it was, it was and it was. Let me remind you of a statement from 1789, said a certain Danton. He said to the contrary, into arms, into weapons, into weapons! If we do not act, act, and act again, we may also be able to summon another Danton, who will call: To arms, to arms, and once again to arms - and will be heard. So let me take such a challenge, I am here for the third time: let us act, act, act, maybe we will achieve better results than this House has managed to achieve so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u15	Thank you, Minister. Do I still ask the rapporteur if he is interested in speaking? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u16	Thank you for the floor. I think that this almost state and visionary speech by the Minister deserves more applause. However, let me thank you for the contributions in the debate. I have listened carefully and I think that the negotiation of this law is an example of the fact that when we are able to communicate, both ahead and in preparation, we are able, as the House here, to make relatively effective and constructive decisions. Let us be a positive example of this in the days to come. And just so we're clear - now that we're all here, let's not get the impression that a graceful summer is self-savory and that this is how one snap of a finger solves the problems of execution. It's not like that. Of course, it is good that activity is required even after the debtor, but at the same time I want to remind you that there are other institutions in that big approved amendment to the Enforcement Order, such as stopping bagatile executions, stopping futile executions, even in the future - all of these are continuous vessels, not only about the gracious summer. And the second thing to look forward to: we have a debate in the House in the autumn about the amendment to the insolvency law, and that may be the debt relief process where we should try to direct the debtors, because it makes more sense and more logic. We will also work on this as a subcommittee here in the Chamber of Deputies. I thank you for the discussion and thank you for your positive approach now to voting on Graceful Summer II, the chance to get out of debt traps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-01-ps2021-025-02-004-032.u17	Thank you and we will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 217, so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'll ask everyone to come to the O.R. I've begun, please, to sign everyone off. We can log in. So we are voting to give our consent at first reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 33, registered 155, for 155, against no one. Result: accepted. I am therefore initiating this detailed debate, which has not yet been accepted. I therefore conclude with this detailed debate. I'm gonna ask you again if the Minister is interested in speaking? Not anymore. And the rapporteur? No, thank you. So we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on special grounds for halting execution and amending related laws, according to the Chamber of Press 217'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, registered 153, for 152, against no one. Result: accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that consent has been given to the bill and that the hearing is adjourned. Thank you, everyone. [[13.00 hours]] Before we continue the work on this point, I will also read my apologies to Mr Michal Ratiborský, who apologizes for today's meeting from 12.30 to 14 for reasons of work, further to Prime Minister Petr Fiala, today from 13 a.m. to the end of the day, also for working reasons, and also for Mr Richter's reasons of foreign travel, namely on 1 January. 6... 3. 6. Now we can go back to discussing
