ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws /house print 254/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, i.e. the Budget Committee, Mr. Jiří Havránek, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in Parliament's Press No 254/2, which was delivered on 26 October 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 254/3. I am now asking the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Yes, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u2	Good morning. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly sum up the basic points of this bill and I would like to take this opportunity to comment in my introductory words on some of the amendments tabled and, if necessary, justify the positive or negative position of the Ministry of Finance. The main reason for submitting this bill is the fulfilment of the Government's programming declaration in three important parameters. We promised to increase the VAT registration limit to 2 million and to the same limit we would shift the possibility of using the flat-rate tax scheme. The second promise, the second commitment from the government's programming statement that we will parametrically change the control reports, and the third that we will reduce the bureaucratic burden on tax and tax administration. In its content, this bill amends several legislation: the Value Added Tax Act, the Income Tax Act, the Tax Code, the Tax Act on Measures in the context of the conflict in Ukraine and other legislation the amendment of which is caused by amendments to these tax laws. Effectiveness is proposed from 1 January next year with the exception of several provisions in the VAT Act, where the effectiveness is proposed the day following the date of publication of this Act in the Collection of Laws. Thus, as I have announced, the amendment raises the VAT registration limit from 1 to 2 million, as well as the limit for the possibility of using flat-rate taxes. It shall extend the deadline for submitting a subsequent inspection report from 5 working days from the date of receipt of the notice of the tax administrator to the data box for 17 calendar days from its delivery to its data box. This will simplify the response of the smallest tax entities in particular, which very often have only external accounting or only one or one accounting officer. The proposal for amendments, part of the increase in flat-rate tax limits, includes the introduction of three flat-rate schemes. I will not give details, we have talked about this quite long in the first, second reading, and this parameter is also the subject of amendments on which the Chamber of Deputies will vote. I just want to remind you that if we accept this, we will solve the long-term problem of free acquisition of a co-ownership interest in immovable property from the municipality if a state subsidy was granted for the construction of this property between 1995 and 2027. I think that a very important report for the investment activity of our business entities is an extension of the exceptional depreciations that have proved to be successful in 2020 and 2021, as well as for the period 2022 and 2023, and the exemption of remuneration for the performance of the duties of a member of the District Election Commission from income tax. I have read the amendment concerning the introduction of a tax on unexpected profits. Some call it a windfall tax, some call it a war tax. This is based on the European Union regulation on intervention in an exceptional market situation in order to address high energy prices. There is sometimes confusion in terms, because this measure, which is part of this law, is referred to as a solidarity contribution in European legislation. We call it the tax on extraordinary profits, it falls under corporate tax. General provisions such as the length of the tax period, the filing of a tax return, the payment of advances shall apply. Entities are the mining sector, i.e. black coal, oil, natural gas, production of petroleum, coke oven products, if the revenues from these activities in 2021 represented at least 25 per cent of the net turnover of production. Other entities are entities that operate electricity and gas production and trade, liquid and gaseous fuel wholesale, if the entity or group of which it is a part had revenue from these decisive activities, that is very important, income of at least CZK 2 billion in 2021, and banks, if they had net interest income of at least CZK 6 billion in 2021. [[10.30 hours]] The tax base is the difference between the tax base for the tax period and the average tax between 2018 and 2021, increased by 20 per cent. If the current tax base is not higher than 20 per cent against this average, the tax on extraordinary profits will be set at CZK 0. I proposed a rate of 60 per cent and the period of application from 2023 to 2025, with advance payments being paid in 2023 according to the tax, which will be calculated for 2022, but will not be paid due to the problem of retroactivity, but will serve as an indication needed to determine the advances. At this point, I would also like to recall the positive budgetary effects on taxpayers, which are expert estimates by the Ministry of Finance. An increase in the limit of compulsory registration from 1 to 2 million can leave taxpayers approximately CZK 10 billion per year, from as you all know it is a shared tax, 6.4 would go to the expense of the state budget, 2.6 billion at the level of municipalities, 1 billion at the level of regions. The parametric adjustments to the control report could reduce taxpayers' tax burden by approximately CZK 180 million a year. For income tax by increasing the flat-rate tax limit, the fallout would be around CZK 600 million per year, and for those extended depreciations - and this is very important for us to realise - the relatively large impact on the budget, which means the high support for investment activities of our companies, is an estimate in 2023 of 6.3 billion in favour of tax entities and in favour of public budgets and in 2024 of CZK 9 billion, of which 5,8 billion at state budget level. Now I will try to explain briefly at least the position of the Ministry of Finance on some amendments. Of course, we gave a positive opinion on the amendment to the Committee on Budgets. If memory doesn't deceive me, it was accepted unanimously across the political spectrum. On the amendment by Vice-President Karel Havlíček, we gave a negative opinion explaining that the problem he pointed out and which he wanted to address with this amendment is resolved in other parts of the law. The subject matter of this proposal was that if the company was split up and one or more of the successor companies would not operate and operate there, so that it would not be subject to windfall tax. There is a limit of CZK 50 million, so if the successor company does not carry out the activity, it cannot, of course, exceed the limit of CZK 50 million sales from decisive activities per year, and will not automatically pay any tax on extraordinary profits. I have presented my amendment quite in detail. We gave a negative opinion on the amendments relating to further reductions in taxes or changes in flat-rate taxes, because we believe that the construction and changes that the Ministry of Finance gave first and then the government as a whole are functional and practical. We gave a negative opinion on Mr Kott's amendment, which increased the input parameter for the tax of electricity and other energy traders, from 2 to 6 billion, because we believe that there would be a window where many companies that have this tax would no longer pay the tax, and the amount of 2 billion is high enough for us not to burden bureaucracy or the state or small tax entities. Mr Michal Kučera's proposal wanted to address or to make sure that what is in other parts of the law applies, that means that only activities within a group or one enterprise, which are specifically listed according to the code list of activities, will be subject to tax. In order to increase the certainty that this interpretation is clear, I have the information that it has been prepared... a legislative technical comment that Mr Kučera will read in the course of the debate, and I will give a positive opinion on this for the Ministry of Finance. [[unintelligible]] I think an increase in security is appropriate. Then I would comment on President Schillerová's proposal, which concerns flat-rate taxes, not the change, from three to two bands, which I said was a negative position, but a positive, positive position is on the amendment, which, in the event of someone overpaying advances on insurance, is coming back. I think that this is the right amendment and the position of the Ministry of Finance and mine is positive. I believe that this amendment will pass. Thank you for the introductory words, and I am certainly ready to answer any questions in the following debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, and we can now proceed to the opening of the debate. I will just read that Mr Ondřej Lochman will vote with the replacement card, namely number 33. I am therefore opening up a debate to which President Alena Schillerová claims with priority rights. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I don't want to start fighting and offensively, but I can't forgive myself for the chaos of the entire tax package. I was listening very carefully now, despite your cold I got up at one point to understand you well - which, of course, is no complaint, it is not your fault - but to understand every word, but I didn't quite find what I wanted. But one step at a time. I'll take the package in general first, and then I'll get to that, I'd say a neuralgic point. So on the one hand, here we are trying to ignore the well-established flat-rate tax system. I can't help it, I still have this system of three bands that aren't really three, it's the worst, she's not three - if there were three, it's not such a problem, but there's a combination with a flat-rate spending, so whoever's in the second band, who's got, like, 1.5 million, can be in the first band, but maybe even in the third, depends on what kind of flat-rate spending, if he's 40, 60 or 80 percent, so there's a lot more to the criteria, and that's exactly what I'm worried about, and that's why I proposed two bands that would make it clear. After all, it's a little bit my kid, a flat-rate tax, and I have a certain emotional attachment to it. I just met this guy here last night, I was doing something for a TV, and the TV employee asked me what the flat-rate tax would be. People just got used to it, businessmen, it's a good system, and this will complicate it, and I'm very sorry, which is why I made an amendment. I am glad that it will pass at least, as the Minister said - or thinks it will pass, it has received the support of the Ministry, the amendment that returns part of the insurance policy if, in fact, someone from a higher band goes to a lower one. I'll comment on that in a minute. I think I'm most sorry about this. It's my most emotional thing. On the other hand, there is a great deal of chaos with the introduction of a new type of taxation for selected sectors, with the fact that, in fact, after a few weeks, even this week, I have not been able to record whether the five-calice has a consensus on the amendments. Now I have listened very carefully to the Minister, who has expressed his views on some amendments. I just read a little while ago that appeared in the media, but I haven't heard the answer to that fundamental question yet. [[10.40 hours]] And then what was very, very frightening for me, I'm looking for the right word, was the effort of the deputy ODS MP to reduce gambling taxation at a time when we're here... whatever, it's just part of the gamble. It's not just damage - when the minister here has already spoken to me, which I don't blame here, but I want to respond to it - it's not just harm, it's the profits. And we were trying then, I still looked it all up, to refresh it, we had an effort, a few efforts, to increase all gambling, all of them. But here the gambling lobby is just so huge, so strong that we never, even though we have accomplished a huge piece of work in gambling - we have passed a separate law, we have enforced separate taxation, we have stopped being a casino in the heart of Europe, we have succeeded in all this, I am extremely proud of all the gambling halls that have disappeared from our cities, from the centers of our cities and from around the schools - but we have never managed to enforce rates as planned. So, actually, it still is - and now I think that, after what we've been through, I don't really hope so anymore, we're going to try it again, of course, but I just think that even though this experiment by Members, there's always been experiments in our government, in the last Chamber of Deputies - but the Minister of Finance can't support it, he just can't support it for me. That was probably the biggest disappointment for me. But I'll take it one step at a time. My speech will probably be the longest, then my colleagues will just respond to some specific things, I will be a little longer, which I am trying to justify. The main part of the tax package submitted was originally to increase the limit for the compulsory VAT payership from the current 1 million to 2 million and the new flat-rate tax adjustment, allowing the application of the CFI with annual revenues up to 2 million. Our government and I, as the former Minister of Finance at the time, have been heading towards the limit of CZK 2 million for a long time, but it has not yet been legally possible, it has prevented European legislation, and it has succeeded during the time when I was the Minister of Finance to enforce it on European Union soil in order to allow Member States to increase this limit since 2025. As Minister of Finance, I have asked for an exception, we have received this exception, and we have actually achieved that the Czech Republic can implement this limit from 1 January 2023. That was an essential condition for us to actually be able to talk about the national legislation at all today. So I am very glad that the current cabinet, the current finance minister, is continuing this trend and is catching up on what we have started and planned. Unfortunately, that concludes my praise - I have now praised you, Minister, you have not just been here - and I will not praise you now, so I am sorry that you have not heard the praise so that I simply should not be critical. The basic idea - and I felt that we understood each other when we raised our hand here together in the last parliamentary term for a flat-rate tax, I think now with ODS representatives - the basic idea is simplicity, which you have always called for. We wanted it, because if the businessman is dedicated to his work, let him do what he knows and what he understands and, on the contrary, simplify all the administrative things for them, and I can't imagine anything easier than what we've introduced. So far, unfortunately, it only applies to those who have income of up to 1 million. They pay flat-rate taxes, they don't file returns, they don't report, there's really no reason for anyone to check them from the financial administration, because what would be checked if they didn't have any tax records, and in that flat-rate payment they have a tax, a symbolic tax, then a minimum social tax, increased by 15 percent, because most of them, according to our analyses we did at the time, paid a minimum social charge, now they have it increased by 15 percent, which, in turn, creates better conditions for them when they're retired and they're applying for a pension, and of course, health. That's how we understand each other. It's logic. And I think that the flat-rate tax on those - I quoted here, for example, the example from yesterday, but I see it very often - that it is a simple, clear, functional form of how entrepreneurs can pay their taxes and not deal with any conflicts, pay some accountants, some advice. All of this actually went away, and our government was trying to save not only the time and nerves of entrepreneurs, but, of course, the means that I was talking about. And let's say, of course, that this is also beneficial for the state, because the state does not spend any capacity to focus on these entrepreneurs, because I think it wasn't productive at all, and it burdened the apparatus unnecessarily, which can go in a different direction, so it's the right measure. According to the Ministry, we are somewhere around 100,000 entrepreneurs - I am looking at the Minister - what I last looked at, who are taking advantage of the flat-rate tax. But there was that $1 million limit, and we explained that it was a good thing that we tied it to the mandatory VAT payer, because if someone becomes a mandatory VAT payer, then they already have some administrative obligations, they have to keep some records, so that's why we tied the flat-rate tax with the mandatory payer's limit. So if the compulsory payership shifts, which we do with this law, the possibility of applying flat-rate tax will also shift. But for me, it's pointless to introduce those new belts. I understand that it is not possible for all with income up to 2 million to pay one amount, which would be around 6,200 and some small ones, as it will be set from 1 January 2023, but I do not think, because in the first band there are CFIs, I will just repeat it, with income up to 1 million per year regardless of the type of activity, then there are CFIs with revenues up to 1,5 million, if at least 75 percent of them can be applied 80% or 60% of them can be used as well as entrepreneurs with income up to 2 million, if at least 75 percent of them can be used by 80% of the PSIs, and in the second band there are CFIs with annual revenues up to 1,5 million, if at least 75 percent of them can be used by 80% or 60% of the PSIs. The third flat-rate tax band will then be for the CFI with annual revenues up to 2 million regardless of the type of activity. I don't know, Minister, I just think that defending this to people who have no relation to tax issues, and most of those entrepreneurs who are engaged in and understand their business areas, so they don't, so I'm afraid I deliberately said that to show that if you're not immersed in some detail, it's complicated enough, and we didn't want them to hire a tax advisor or someone who's gonna have to set it up for them. And that's exactly what's reducing the attractiveness of this attractive institute, because I think we should help them right now, there's a crisis, there's huge problems, they're dealing with after two years of covido with other energy invoices, with inflation, and here we should try to relieve them. That is why I tabled two amendments. Thank you for supporting - and the Ministry has supported - the refund of insurance. Yes, it makes sense. I've been working on them with your knowledge of the apparatus, Deputy Kouba. It makes sense. I'll just say to my colleagues that when someone goes to the lower zone, so they actually paid more, more tax and higher social and insurance in the flat rate, according to the original proposal, his tax was to be refunded, the proportional part, but not insurance. We'll straighten this out, thank you. I will not discuss this any further, and it is certainly the right step and a pragmatic approach on your part. [[10.50 hours]] I wanted to introduce - and I proposed this in the amendment - two zones. It is true that between the second - I wanted to cancel the third band - there would be a group of entrepreneurs, even those - let's call them richer quotes, we discussed it with Deputy Minister Kouba - who would pay instead of I think 25 or 16 000, but the group is so minority that it would just be worth simplifying the system. So I'm still letting you decide whether or not to help. The impact on the budget is low tens of millions, as the Ministry of Finance gave me. If we compare it to what would drain the gambling, I think it would be worth helping them in their hard work. So much for the tax package in general. We welcome all the other things the Minister has said. I would perhaps mention an extension of the accelerated depreciation. Our government made it through here at the time of the covid, and I'm glad you guys got on with it. I'm sure it's a good thing, and businessmen are very welcome. Now, please, to the highlight of today's program. Here I just have to say - and here I will be critical - that you have absolutely failed, Minister, in an unprecedented way to create a completely new tax in the form of your own amendment. We talked about the chaos on the stock market, I'm gonna let that go, the chaos on the media, the chaos on the government coalition. In fact, the main reason behind this is the situation that has chosen to receive such a tax. In addition to the fact that it could have long been prepared that the European Union had already issued some parameters here in February of this year, that I also offered you a debate when it passes through an accelerated reminder procedure, that we would already receive comments from places such as the Czech National Bank, such as the Banking Association, such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Tax Advisors, such as the Confederation of Industry and Transport, when it passes through committees, the Legislative Council of the Government, which should look at this from other angles such as constitutionally legal aspects, so we will not cause problems here, and even if we do not like some things and try to correct them, I was willing to talk to you about shortening deadlines, because it is clear to me that the Income Tax Act must always be or tax change to income tax must always be effective from 1 January of the following year. [[Czech]] However, nothing like that happened. I think it didn't happen for pragmatic reasons - that either you don't have it, which is very likely, or it just doesn't play into your hands. So this method was quick -- although it weighed down the tax package that we all welcome -- quick for you and for you from your point of view painless. So I don't think it's painless, because the painlessness is measured from your point of view by a short-term point of view. In the long run or in the long run, I think you're gonna hit it. I'm not happy because this whole country is gonna hit you, especially the budget. I'm pointing out those pop-up predictions that we don't really have anything to say about except for the assurance that the Ministry of Finance experts did it. But I didn't see anything that could be believed in. For 2023, it's supposed to be about 85 billion. It is also questioned by economists, as I watch the debates in public space. Even the Prime Minister's advisor, Mr. Křeček, said it was a pasquil, and I quote it directly from his words. Together, in the years 2023, 2024 and 2025, it's supposed to be about 150 billion. Now it's not the 150 billion I'm criticizing in the 2025 budget, that's another 150 billion, calculated tax on extraordinary profits in 2023, 2024 and 2025. I'd say wishing is the father of thought. So unpredictable. Do you remember the government's programming statement on how predictable the tax environment should be? I understand that we are in some difficult time, but even in difficult times we are supposed to communicate with professional associations, chambers, opposition, for that is the interest of the whole country. So the unpredictability of the ruling five-calice, which, according to its words and promises, doesn't seem to be the case at all. What the government MPs have unleashed here about the tax period, the potential retroactivity of the limit from which companies will be subject to the tax on extraordinary profits, is a complete disaster. Moreover, the introduction of an exceptional profit tax may be linked to a number of negative effects, primarily in the banking sector, for example. I fear that this tax will ultimately not be paid by citizens, for example in increased fees for banking services or in increasing credit costs or their partial availability. I didn't hear any guarantees from the Treasury Secretary that it wouldn't happen. That's why we wanted a reminder procedure, which is why we wanted to hear the other side's opinion. But this side of the coin refuses to discuss with us both in the Chamber of Deputies and with our citizens or representatives of companies. Another fact I have to pause on is why the five-calice government has waited so long to deal with the energy crisis. Why did she wait so long when she had a proposal from the European Commission since March? Instead of addressing the energy crisis, the government chose to deal with the political abolition of EET or the control of Czech Television and Czech Radio, which was dealt with here on Tuesday. The fact is that it was enough for the government to listen to our parliamentary proposals or cooperate with us - they do not have to listen to us, cooperate - to mitigate the impact of the energy crisis on our citizens. It could have put a price on producers and thus saved tens of billions of crowns in the state budget. The fact that Minister Stanjura's proposal does not include all major banks in the banking sector, but only six banks, is also a problem. After all, we saw the preference of interest groups here live in an effort to reduce the taxation of gambling, which was or still is part of this tax package and which was publicly supported by the Minister of Finance Stanjura. But after our dramatic mediation of this incredible proposal, perhaps the proposal to reduce gambling will be withdrawn - I draw from public sources. But the fact that this five-calice plays in favour of interest groups, and not for the benefit of Czech citizens, is already quite clear. Another intended impact of the tax on exceptional profits is the actual amendment of the budgetary determination of taxes. The tax on extraordinary profits is listed in the state budget as part of the corporate tax. That's okay, I'm not criticizing that, but corporate tax is a tax shared with regions and municipalities. But this alone does not count on Mr Stanjura's proposal at all. Unacceptable again. My colleague Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will talk about this. But do you remember those hysterical performances here during the last parliamentary term, especially the members of the then opposition movement STAN? Do you remember others? When we introduced a compensatory bonus here, they helped businessmen and self-employed people who live in cities and municipalities, and we explained that we were helping them to continue paying taxes, to continue to exist, and it would come back to everyone here as we were pushed into compensation. In the end, we gave them generously, you compensation. When it was then calculated backwards how much of the shared taxes were due to the compensation bonus, or so-called minus personal income tax, we compensated them twice. In the next wave, we even introduced the principle that more than 80 percent of what the state paid to businessmen living on the soil of cities and municipalities was compensated every quarter. [[11.00 hours]] When we were dealing with the abolition of the supergross wage, which helped workers living in cities and municipalities, we had to change the budgetary determination of taxes thanks to the compromise. I'm glad you did. Thanks to this, after all the crises in the region, cities and municipalities, they manage the surplus and manage it. I can't imagine what's going on out there today. But if there is an energy crisis or perhaps migration crisis, it is because of them, and they also have increased costs. On the contrary, today we hear the views of representatives of STAN who speak differently, the starosta. They don't care anymore, they're already where they wanted to be, and they're gonna keep the fights back when they're in opposition. Moreover, as a result of the introduction of the new tax only as a parliamentary proposal, there is no or could not have been an assessment of the impact of regulation, which is termed RIA in short. I don't remember, I really don't remember the time when there was a new tax without RIA being here and judging by the relevant part of the Government Legislative Council Commission. That is why the amount of funds is purely formally stated, without its estimation being based on real facts, so there is no possible elementary probability of achieving these amounts, which is, of course, the political responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but also of governments. That is why I have proposed for absolutely pragmatic reasons, and I have even recorded quite a positive assessment in the public space, so that the tax should be paid only for 2023. Do we know what's gonna happen in 2024? The minister himself says how burdened it is, and I give him the truth. I'm not calling after what I've been hearing here for covid: you have to have precise model situations and cases of how the virus goes, where it goes, when it comes back, when it hits. I'm not calling after it, but I'm saying do it for 2023, and if the situation develops - I pray it doesn't turn out any worse - let's make a deal here and prepare a proper proposal. Fair enough. We can discuss it, sit down, but why 2024, 2025? We don't know what's going to happen, you're saying it yourself, we don't know what's going to happen at this time, so let's not even burden the concerned subjects and let's prepare them properly. I hope the five-calice will keep what she promised to withdraw the motion to reduce gambling tax. I expected the Minister to say in his opening speech - perhaps we will find out - actually, because he was expressing his views on some of the amendments, so they were mostly from the opposition, but I would be mostly interested in the essential thing. He spoke of his amendment, but there are other amendments that concern or are tabled by government Members, and they are diametrically changing the parameters of his amendment. And if the coalition is still talking and debating, then it should be made clear to us what its joint proposal is, so that we can actually think about how we will stand up to this joint proposal, because we have only an hour to prepare amendments 14 days ago. This is the work of this five-wheeler, a huge disappointment to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. Thank you, and with a factual remark, Mr Jan Volný has now come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u6	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I'll be very short. I want to go back to the lottery and lower the tax. I don't want to judge here whether the 35 is too little or too much, I know that the surrounding states have 50 and 60 per cent for this kind of lottery and gambling, but I would just like to underline here and question when the minister here had objections to our President that the lottery is not very harmful. I think it's a gamble like another. We know that the vending machines have fallen out of villages, discotheques, pubs, and the harm is still there, but it's not as bad as it used to be when it was in pubs and villages. But I'm from a village, from a small town in Tachovsk, and I see three times a week at the terminals that are in every village, standing with grandmothers, holding 200, 500 crowns and going to bet, three times a week. There's a chance for those who can do it, even at the terminals on the computer. And that's the money that we give to the elderly in the framework of valorization - and we do well - but they carry it to the lodgers like this, and they bet them three times every week that they have some hope that they will have just like all their wealthy fellow citizens. It's a gamble, please, and let's not say it's not harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u7	Thank you for the time being and now for the proper debate is Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Jan Hrnčíř will prepare. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u8	Madam Vice-President, Minister, honourable Members, I, too, would like to comment on the third reading of the amendment to the Value Added Tax Act. What I am very sorry, then, is that I can practically see the troops of Members in the government benches as we are discussing this important law. I will therefore assume that most Members are in their offices and are listening. I would like, first of all, to comment on this - because, of course, the tax package contains many things, but it also contains the so-called comprehensive amendment by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who is concerned with the tax on extraordinary profits, the so-called war tax. In the light of the way it was presented, the way it was discussed, I acted in the second reading and in the proposed amendment, that we were and we are in complete shock that the corporate tax to which the cities, municipalities and regions are entitled under the budgetary determination of taxes, that the 31-page comprehensive amendment suddenly contained the sentence that cities, municipalities and regions will not be entitled to that tax. I would like to mention here the year 2020, which Mrs Alena Schillerová mentioned earlier, when the so-called compensation bonus on personal income tax was approved here, where funds were given to business entities, and thanks to this step it affected the cities and municipalities. I would like to quote here today the output of today's government politicians who are submitting this proposal, to take these funds away from cities, municipalities and regions. For example, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, who, as I had the opportunity to read and which I consider to be the minister - because he has a law on municipalities, about regions, about the capital of Prague - there is a supervisory and control department, so that for me and such a mayor minister, the governor, he is excused today, so I would like to say that in 2020, when a compensatory bonus was approved, his outputs were: The municipality's money heist has been completed, we want to promptly approve an increase in the RUD, the House has consecrated an insidious and irresponsible robbery of funds from the municipal budget. [[11.10 hours]] So I'd like to ask if at this point we want to take something that the communities are entitled to. That's what communities are entitled to! I repeat this once again: Corporate income tax is a claim tax on cities, municipalities and regions. I see the smile of my colleague and chairman of the Czech Pirate Party, pan Michálek, through Mr President, so I would read the quote of your President Ivan Bartoš in 2020: "There is no money rolling around in the city's accounts. On the contrary, they have big liabilities and have to have money to repay them. The government is taking money from big cities. I find it undignified, and most importantly untrue." So this is what Ivan Bartoš said in 2020. In connection with this, the mayor of the capital, Mr Hřib, even posted a black flag on the City of Prague. [[He's showing a photograph.]] And he said: "Ten cities and villages in the Czech Republic have posted a mourning party, criticizing the government, and so they want to point out that they will have no money left to repair the playgrounds and pavements. " And I ask, today, will cities and municipalities have funds to repair playgrounds and pavements? Will they have these funds? In 2020, you criticized the granting of a compensatory bonus for taking funds from cities, municipalities and regions under income tax. Why don't you act at the same time when cities, municipalities and regions are entitled to this tax, and if you look at the table, you can see that the funds for the cities, the municipalities will not be enough. I'd like to ask the question here: do you think the mayor will keep the funds? He'll give them to the citizens of the community, the city or the region. And we could take a look at the Governor of the South Bohemia Region, for example, because by the fact that the government is not acting, he has proceeded to declare regional subsidy programs on individual target groups, and he is helping them himself. And that is how mayors and generals can help in accordance with the Budgetary Rules Act. And I would like to say one more important thing that has been said here: since March we have had a regulation here. If this government had listened to us, because we have performed here many times, and above all, it has followed the way of putting energy prices on producers, we would not have a tax on extraordinary profits here today. But when we have it here, I find it totally unfair to take something from cities and municipalities and regions to which they are entitled! And I would like to say, above all, to the coalition Members of the municipal politicians, if you are aware that you will take it away for three years if Mr Stanjura's amendment - 2023, 2024, 2025 - is approved. So in 2020, I would still like to quote here the Minister of Finance, who at that time was the chairman of the ODS, when he expressed himself in this way: "The government does not want to do this simply, so it must look for other legislative solutions. Our elegant solution was rejected by the government," Mr Zbyněk Stanjura complained. One of the proposals was for the municipalities to receive CZK 1,000 for each of their citizens and the region of CZK 400. The next was CZK 1,100 and CZK 600. Neither passed, so Zbyněk Stanjura was also the one who criticized it very much. And there were others. Věra Kovářová: "If you have taken money from them across the board, give it back to them too! And that's across the board, not through subsidies." Yes, and I have to say, if I were standing here today as a coalition or opposition MP. and you know that even in the last term, I have always fought for cities, municipalities and regions, and again I say that - and you can see that you are being heard from by individual mayors, you have received a letter from the President of the Chamber of Statutory Cities from Mr Žbánek, who is the President, who is clearly expressing himself and practically asking you to reconsider this step, which, in my view, is also contrary to legislation, because it is not possible to submit this indirect amendment if the funds were to be taken away from the regions of cities and municipalities, so it would have to be an amendment to the Act on Budgetary Taxation. And here I would like to quote a colleague, Jan Bartošek, who also commented in 2020 that a few weeks ago a part of the senators headed by the people's senators drew attention to the fallout in the budget of municipalities and regions when they tried to change the amendment to pay the bonus: "The Chief of Human Rights Members Jan Bartošek is considering filing a constitutional complaint." I would like to draw attention to the fact that if the amendment that we tabled is not supported, the same move is prepared to proceed with the YES movement, because the move is legislatively wrong, it is contrary to legislation, and we too will be prepared to fight for cities, municipalities and regions and to submit a possible constitutional complaint. I would be very pleased, Minister, if you would really reconsider your actions already, with the fact that I think that the way in which this step is taking place, that there will therefore be one sentence that has been assumed that no one will notice it, and I think that cities, municipalities and regions are well managed, and that if they receive the funds, they will be effectively and efficiently spent. I'm convinced of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u9	The speech raised two factual points. The President of the Pirates' Club, Jakub Michálek, is the first to comment. Mr Robert Stržínek can also be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, that speech really made me laugh, because my colleague compares apples and pears. The YES movement in the last parliamentary term really wanted to take away and almost cost municipalities and regions the money they had in their budgets to pay a compensatory bonus. Yes, that has happened, and the situation where I take someone's money is different from when we collect new profits, and that's what we do with this law. We don't take anything from the authorities here. The only person we're taking money from here is the banks. And who's gonna get the money from the banks, the new sources we're collecting here? The money goes to people, goes to pensions, the state splits it into pensions. These are record profits from banks and energy companies, they're going to valorize pensions, it's going to cost tens of billions of crowns. [[11.20 hours]] So the idea of someone coming in now, taking some of the pension money, and sending it to the generals to send their own donations to do local politics, that's a completely unconventional idea. Let's leave the money we're collecting here, let's really let it go where it's supposed to go, that is, the purpose of helping people uses the existing system, using the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' systems, using the pension system, and let's not think of any Czech specifics here that the money will be redistributed from the banks. That doesn't make any sense at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Stržínek Srvenek, then, will be prepared by President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, let me respond to Mr Michálek's speech and perhaps add my previous speaker Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová. By law, local authorities - i.e. cities, municipalities and regions - are entitled to a fair share of taxes, including tax on extraordinary profits, within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. The fact that you're taking their share of this tax at the moment is an absolute nonsense. It's an unsystemic and unfair precedent. It is a failure of the government and, among other things, the failure of the STAN movement, which is holed up here as the main force helping the mayors, cities and municipalities. The mayors for STAN shoved their heads in the sand and resigned under the pressure of a five-wheeler on their priorities. Don't you realize that even the ceilinged energy costs us cities more than a year ago? Electricity, gas, don't forget the heat, also the water and sewer costs are significantly increased, fuel costs rise in millions, including for public transport, public lighting costs rise, maintenance of roads, greenery, city buildings, project work, IT services, interest on loans rising. Millions are still being paid annually for the performance of the government. Employees' wages in urban companies are rightly rising and the costs of running the city police are also rising. The costs of providing health and social services are increasing. The costs of running sports sites are increasing. The costs associated with waste management are increasing significantly. Our planned investment actions are increasing by tens of percent in budget terms, which is another million. All of this, we as cities, municipalities, and regions pay and, knowing all of this, you take a share of this special tax to the cities, the municipalities? [[Time.]] I don't understand. [[Time, please.]] From my point of view, from the mayor's point of view of 20 thousand city...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u13	Sorry, we really need to keep time in factual notes. Now, President Alena Schillerová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Well, Mr. Chairman Michálek, through Madam Vice-President, when we gave a compensatory bonus, we approved it here together at the time of the covid, tradesmen and civil servants living in those cities and municipalities, from whose taxes shared in fact... and whose taxes go to the incomes of these municipalities and cities, I explained it here, so we had to compensate. We finally compensated it with about CZK 1,300 per person, which turned out to be double what we took from them, but I'm glad. Thanks to this, they are in surplus today and can touch these reserves during this difficult time. It's actually not necessary right now. Now it's all meant to be left to the state. I'll tell you what the difference is. The only difference is that you were in opposition then and now you're in coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u15	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I thought I'd only speak as I was logged in, but I didn't get it now, so I applied to my colleague Michálek in fact. I had a little breath here in the '80s, maybe in the '70s, when he said, "We good politicians will decide that bad bankers will pay to split the money between people." So if I were to continue with this thesis, so if the banks are bad, they would, of course, project it into the prices of their services and products, we can talk about it, and I've been doing it for 17 years, whether they're going to project it or not, at the level of bank charges. I'll show my colleague Michálek how some bank charges are already getting more expensive, which haven't been expensive for four years or even dropped. So they're gonna pay the consumers the same way. I would perhaps ask Minister Zbyněk Stanjura to tell his colleague Jakuba Michálek not to go to the microphone so often because he is doing a bear service to this amendment, and his position in relation to the financing of municipalities, the regions I will be happy to pass on to the former mayor Zdeněk Hřiba from the same subject. I'm sure he'll be praised for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u17	Thank you and now Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Furthermore, Mr Aleš Juchelka can prepare himself with his factual comment. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would also like to respond to Mr. Michálek, through you, that he laughed at my performance and that I was mixing pears with apples. Well, I'd say you're talking about a goat and I'm talking about a cart. Because it's absolutely unbelievable... and you can see yours, I'm sorry, inexperience that you've never been mayor, you haven't been the captain and you don't know what's going on beyond Prague, because I can see how many times, even if I'm talking to you. The problems of people in the regions are completely different from those in Prague, and that is simply reality. I hope you have registered a press release issued by the Union of Towns and Municipalities this week, representing about 3,000 mayors and mayors from the Czech Republic. I think the headline they sent with the press release says everything, "Is the government declaring war on the community?" If you were the mayor, and if anyone is entitled to the tax from the tax budget bill, then you're actually saying, we're going to decide how the funds are going to be distributed when the mayors get them, so they're going to divide them badly. And you were expressing yourself in some way in 2020, fighting for the mayors, fighting for the communities, and now you're doing the opposite! And I think that you, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, are very much in the legislation, you are also a member of the constitutionally-legal committee... [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. And now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, then Mr Milan Feranec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u20	Thank you very much. I will also speak of my predecessor, the honourable Member Michálek, through you. I had here an amendment from the point of view of social services financing of CZK 1.3 billion, which was not accepted by this government coalition precisely with the argument that the founders of social services should simply finance it themselves, that is, the municipalities, that is, the regions. And at this point, for example, some municipalities were counting on the windfall tax to fall into the tax budget and that the increased energy costs would be financed by their services. At this point, you disagree. The result is that municipalities, regions and municipalities will have less resources to finance social services. And as for windfall tax and banks, my colleague Patrik Nacher is right by your means that those banks will simply take it from other sources, that is, from companies, that is, from households on fees, or, for example, increased interest on mortgages for housing. I'm more interested in the fact that we still don't know what you're going to vote for, if you vote for only the first six banks, that means there's going to be a six-billion-dollar limit, which means that the seventh bank that should probably be the Fio bank isn't going to be taxed? So why aren't all banks taxed? Isn't that necessary because the ODS has loans there?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Milan Feranec is now reporting with a point of fact and President Jan Jakob will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond to my colleague Michálek. It's just this debate about whether or not someone's taking someone away. What's a windfall tax? Corporate tax. The corporation tax is generally subject to the division of RUD - 25,8 and 9,9 or so, the region. It would be fair if the government didn't want to give it to those municipalities and regions, change the law on the budgetary determination of taxes and say: You are entitled to it in general, but we will not give it to you therefore, therefore, therefore. With this inconspicuous change at once, the indirect amendment actually, perhaps the purpose was not to discuss it. That's the first thing. So it's just this debate, if something's taken away from someone or not: when I'm generally entitled to something and someone comes along and you don't get it here, logically, someone's taking something away from me, right? I mean, logically. And two, just a technical matter. You say, from that, it's for energy, old people and so on. So what was it supposed to be? I mean, the energy sector was supposed to be compensated for this tax, which would have suffered the loss of ceilinging, right? That's the principle! That, Minister, is how you always said it was a correlation and so on that it would be used on these matters. So maybe I just misunderstood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u23	Thank you for your time and now Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Jan Jakob. President Jakub Michálek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been mayor for 12 years, so you won't be able to blame me for not having any experience in this area. I must respond to my previous speakers so that this discussion does not give the impression that we may be taking something from municipalities and regions. We don't take a penny. Not a penny! [[Speech of disapproval for YES 2011.]] This tax is an exceptional tax and goes to extraordinary expenses. A colleague of Stržínek here said that municipalities have increased costs. Yes, like everyone else in this country, so do the municipalities, the regions, but the state also has increased costs, and it needs to be delivered by B. I know what the revenues of the RUD are for the municipalities this year. They are 15 percent higher than the original estimate and what the municipalities were counting on. And this B is very important! Nobody's taking anything away from the locals or the county! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u25	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek and Mrs Renata Oulehlová can now prepare herself. It is downloading, well, withdrawn, or Mrs Oulehlová, Mrs Klára Dostálová will prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u26	Hello, esteemed colleagues. Yes, we have - cities - higher incomes. In the case of Sokolov, it was an increase of 30 million by the end of August, which means 8 percent extra. But on the other hand, in December last year we gave CZK 1,218 for a megawatt hour, this year we give CZK 4,125 and even after your pseudo-help we will pay seven times as much next year as we paid in December last year. Where are we supposed to get it? We also have to take care of schools, kindergartens, senior homes, and we still have to fix these people's pavements, we have to have some culture, I don't even talk about sports, how do we keep the winter stadiums? That money is our money, the village! And cities and municipalities and regions were those that, when the war began in Ukraine, unlike governments, worked. Then don't take what's ours!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Yes, Mrs Klára Dostálová, and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will not turn to one Member, I would like to address the entire Chamber of Deputies to reconsider the support of Amendment 1486, which concerns municipalities. Please, there are many local politicians here, but for our public, let us repeat what municipalities support for our citizens. And since the support doesn't go to the mayors anymore, please, at least to our fellow citizens. Our people in cities and villages want kindergartens, elementary schools, dining rooms, sports areas, ice areas, swimming pools, football courts, social services, as well as public transport when many large cities operate public transport. And today our communities are fighting not only the energy crisis, but also the inflation crisis and many major cities are fighting the refugee crisis. These are all the resources that, of course, those municipalities are entitled to. I'm not saying we're taking something away from them, but they're entitled to it because it's corporate tax and it's linked to the budgetary determination of taxes. So it's not like we're physically taking something away from them, but we don't want to give it to them. And that's the big difference: whether we take or not. So please, let us admit to the communities what is due to them, because it is in essence appreciated by all our fellow citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and Mr Juchelka, with a final factual report. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u30	Thank you for the floor, I would like to respond to Mr Jakob, through Madam President. It's not true, you're taking money from cities, municipalities and regions. This exceptional tax is part of corporate tax, which is part of and shared tax on the budgetary determination of taxes. I don't know how to explain it anymore. That means you're taking it, and what form are you taking it in? The form is very cowardly, because you did not bring an amendment to the Act on budgetary determination of taxes, you come up with an indirect amendment, with one sentence hidden in the 31-page comprehensive amendment, and it is unfair to the mayors and citizens of the individual cities and municipalities! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u31	Thank you for keeping the time and final factual, Mr Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u32	My colleague Renata Oulehlová says that her budget in Sokolov has increased, by 8 percent, by your means. Mr Jakob says, by your means, that 15 percent of his income has increased in the municipality, but we still have 18% of inflation here, so maybe we should start talking about which services Mr Jakob might be restricting in his community, by your means, to advise us. Perhaps his citizens would just like to know here on the microphone, what specifically he will in some way restrict and cut. We have a big business in the region called Třinecké železárny and they will get the energy costs by CZK 5 billion. They will pay 5 billion more crowns! This government, and I understand that the funds are not, will help them with a maximum of CZK 200 million. Třinec ironworks in Třinec determine cultural life, promote sports life, hockey sports club, promote social affairs, but maybe also because they will have increased costs of 5 billion for energy, they will no longer have the resources for such a broad aid, because simply and simply some cities and municipalities live on how entrepreneurs in their neighborhood do business and profit. And at this point, when we actually have these Třinec ironworks and they have these increased costs, we will also take funds from Třinec to the city within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. So actually, we're really going to stay hitting on this as citizens of these communities, and we're just going to say what the mayors are actually going to be cutting down on us to tell us that they just don't have the money to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u33	Thank you for keeping the time and now with the de facto President as Jan Jakob. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u34	Thank you. I've been invited to tell you what I've been doing in the Solutions, where I've had the honor of worrying for 12 years. In that time, the town of Roztoky has succeeded well. We have put in place a lot of austerity measures, so, compared to the years before, we have had many times more to invest, and because we have managed this responsiblely over the last few years, we will not have to cut any services for citizens in this situation. On the contrary, we will be able to afford to help them in this difficult time, so the magic is in it, to manage well. And the municipalities, the regions - of course it affects them as well as everyone else. And if the mayors, the chieftains, can manage well, I'm sure they can handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u35	Thank you for keeping time. This de facto brought forward further applications. The first is the application by Mrs Renata Oulehlová, and then by Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u36	Mr. Colleague, I have also been an excellent mayor, we have even had the highest increase in investment in the history of our town of Sokolov and we have also been saved. But we're saved up by your steps for a year, maybe two, and then, thanks to you, the cities can go to Zugrund and we can really limit everything. You may see a corner, but you can't see a distance!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u37	Thank you for keeping time. I'll ask you to address me through me. And now, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Drahoslav Ryba will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u38	Madam Vice-President, through you, a colleague of Jakob, who I don't see here if he's hiding under the bench. What can I say? I'm the one who hates politicians the most when they're inconsistent. When I think of the speeches that were here in the last term when the covid crisis was being dealt with here, there was regular compensation for municipalities, regions, that was permanent here. And now, actually, from the mouth of the same politicians, they say that municipalities and regions can do it on their own, because it depends on how the mayor, and of course, the mayor -- the ex-boyfriend -- praises himself, so they saved up, so they can do it perfectly in the worst times. And that's a inconsistent attitude for me. We simply behave in the same way in relation to municipalities and regions, regardless of whether we are in a coalition or in opposition or different ways. And here I see a complete 180-degree change in our position, when we were here in the last parliamentary term, even though these municipalities were getting record funds from the RUD, so we were here to quote compensation for municipalities and for regions and Members of Parliament. Jakob always supported it, defended it. Now cut, the opposition is becoming a coalition, and suddenly it's not necessary. That's what everyone needs to see. So don't be mad at me, at least don't act like that, then it looks really ridiculous!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u39	Thank you for the time being and now with the de facto Member of the Ryba. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will also respond to Mr Jakob, through you. I don't know, I don't know how Mr. Jakob, but I get a lot of letters, including a letter from the headmaster of the Union of Towns and Towns where the mayors say, Fight for us, we need the money, we have problems, the money belongs to us! I don't know. I wouldn't dare say that these mayors are mismanagement, and that's why they want the money. I think that is not the case, and that Mr Jakob, through Madam President, basically all these mayors, who are turning to us, are offended in some way at least. And then again - I have to say that I'm here briefly, I'm here for the first term, one year, so I'm really constantly learning and I'm surprised - we have the political movement of the Mayors and the independents, who are flattering themselves by being the voice of the mayors. And I see here that he is fighting for the money of the mayors and independent movement YES, but certainly not the mayors and independent movement, which I am really surprised! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u41	Thank you for keeping time. And now Mr Vít Vomáčka's de facto Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been waiting for this. A moment ago, black scenarios began to fall, that within a year and a day the municipalities would be zugrund, then the performance of the honored Mr Nacher, through the President, in the style that Mr Jakob is hiding under the bench. Please, let's try to avoid these adjectives. And I just want to follow up on the fact that I'm here, like my previous speaker, in such a strange situation. Until a year and a half ago, I was mayor of the village and, of course, I looked at the Chamber of Deputies with a slightly different view than I do now that I'm concerned here and I feel like a certain administrator of the Treasury. And we shouldn't resign to the fact that we're really state treasury administrators. My favorite chef Pohlreich always says. You guys are acting like-- sorry-- drunk millionaires. And it seems to me that the way we spend here in the Chamber of Deputies, that we behave just like this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u43	Thank you for the time being and for the fact that two more facts have been raised - Mrs Renata Oulehlová, and then Mrs Berenika Peštová can prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u44	I would like to respond to the honourable colleague who is just leaving, through Madam President. [[To Mr Vomáčka, who says he is not leaving.]] So does that mean that people like the mayor they trusted elected you to the Chamber of Deputies, and now you've cheated on those cities and communities?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u45	Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová and a Member Robert králíček is still on the list. Everyone to the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u46	I wanted to be a little more spicy, too, but I'm gonna slow it down. In any case, I would love to hear the views of the mayors sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies, and they really hear that the ANO movement is fighting for your members in quotation marks and is trying to make sure that the justice that is currently being hacked is here. I'm shocked that you're sitting here in peace, if you're sitting here, some of you prefer to pass and corrupt, but that you're silent! You don't get the letters and the e-mails? Don't the mayors write to you? Don't they tell you that they want it to stay the way it is, and not with some sticker, it's been bent indirectly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u47	Thank you for keeping the time, and we are hereby returning to the general debate on the duly registered ones. Mr Jan Hrnčíř is now next with his speech and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. When the government came here with this tax package at first reading, I commended it here at this point that it finally came up with something that essentially brings positive changes, which means increasing the limits, whether for mandatory VAT registration to 2 million, or increasing the turnover to 2 million flat-rate taxes. Through positive things, including the adjustments around the control report and so on. However, this current government could not be a five-calice, so that even through a good proposal it would not eventually spoil it. [[11.50 hours]] What happened here in the second reading, when the so-called tax on extraordinary profits was quickly introduced by the amendment that Mr Stanjura introduced into the system about three days before last week's discussion, there were several other proposals from the government benches, which is absolutely absurd what happened here. I am convinced that where there is no free market or the market is somehow failing, energy is basically some oligopoly or sometimes a monopoly, state regulation is supposed to take place there. The state is supposed to regulate prices so as to prevent the externalities that then take place. But this socialist government has other recipes. He lets people's wallets, households, pillage businesses' accounts, and then introduces some additional taxes without any commentary procedure, basically without communication with the opposition or other departments involved, and invents some social benefits, redistributes, invents subsidies. This government has approved 30 billion grants to help companies with energy through some grant titles, but by the end of the year it is not able to manage them so that they actually get some help, so these recipes are useless. We've been saying since spring, so that the government can regulate throughout the chain from production to sales to end consumers the way the state should be doing it, that is, to regulate prices so that these things don't happen here. However, this government is simply not capable of doing so. And I just want to say that one last thing to conclude is that the idea of taxing extraordinary profits by taxing three years in advance doesn't make any sense at all. Moreover, multinational companies, which are essentially affected, can optimize their profits very well, so of course these taxes will not be collected, and eventually the consumer will pay it again, domestic companies will again, and the government will probably invent some social benefits again. We just can't support this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u49	Thank you and Mr Patrik Nacher is now signed in, and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u50	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I, if I may ask the Minister, because I will have two questions for him, otherwise I will have it quite brief, yes, if I may. And before those questions come up, I can actually start them off if you're paying attention to me, and then I'll keep talking. I will turn around, respond promptly to the situation in the Chamber of Deputies. There are two questions. Firstly, why is the tax in this amendment being dealt with for 2024, 2025? Given how quickly this is all happening, I understand it's for 2023. I'm sure I didn't agree that it would be backwards for 2022, that's what we said, that's where I didn't understand the Pirate anagram, that's what I'm going to come back to, but why is it for 2024, 2025? That's where I think the moment the situation wouldn't change, we can get back to this in the next year. So that's the first question. The second question to the Minister is what is his position or the position of the Minister or Government - now I don't really know who to ask - the Pirates' amendments to banks, the reduction from 6 billion to 2 or 3 billion, because I have encountered this issue with my colleague Michálek in Events, comments. So that's two questions, because we don't actually know until now. And now just a few words, because I've already spoken to it in the second reading. Well, fellow colleagues, I have a feeling this changeling is exactly fulfilling the character of my favorite double standard. I would almost say that this is actually a double standard design, because he actually meets it in all parameters, you wouldn't invent it, and it really is. First of all, it has to do with the state budget, this proposal, without a doubt, because if we approve here, there's the revenue that we're counting on in the state budget. I see the double standard here that when the previous government did it in a much smaller version, you criticized it, and now you're doing it. The second double standard is that, on such a robust matter, it should be a government amendment for me, not just a Member's amendment. Even though I am only here for the second term, I have not been here as long as some colleagues have, that even sometimes a Member's proposal may actually copy a government proposal - it is a quicker version, but then it manifests itself by the fact that there is a government consensus, which obviously is not here. Here, at second reading, the amendments to the TOP 09 and the Pirates were added to the amendment by Zbyněk Stanjura. This seemed completely absurd to me, because we, as opposition, do not really know what to define ourselves about, what is the government's position. And that's a double standard for me because I remember how you criticized us here when we did it to a much lesser extent. The third double standard for me is that by missing it, by not being a government proposal, it came here until second reading. This means that the whole procedure has been left out, so the opposition did not have such an opportunity to enter the mechanism with its proposals, with some political statement, with amendments, because the law that was here - and I do not say that it is a label of content, territorial, it is not, but a principle - that is, this big thing to get to the law, to a novel that happens to be here in second reading, even if it is a value added tax and there is a direct tax, tax on income, so that should not be the procedure for me. And I say for myself repeatedly: in some things the opposition uses obstruction, you did it too. With budgets and things like that, we can strongly disagree, but I didn't notice from us that anyone would say in any way that they would be circumcising or delaying it, see the discussion of the first reading of the budget, see the discussion of the state budget amendment for 2022, and there all those things where I was saying when it would probably end, the discussion, We ended up here before I ever said anything down here in the cafeteria. That means I'm not going to extend it here for me. When it comes to matters relating to municipalities, we have already said this to ourselves, let the Mayors defend themselves in their communities. I remember when Mr. Mayor Hřib gave me a scolding for a small compensation in the last parliamentary term, so I'm going to ask him next time at the adjourned council how he looks at it, and especially my colleague, Jakub Michálek, who defends it this vehemently, even though they now have a serving mayor. But I will not go back to that, so for me again: I will ask for answers to two questions politely, correctly asked - why even for 2024, 2025 and how the Minister of Finance stands - is that enough for me, because at that moment the petitioner is for me - the Pirates' amendments to the banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u51	Thank you. And the Minister is claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u52	Two answers and a few comments on the fundamental reservations or arguments raised in Mr Patrik Nacher's speech. I gave the banks an opinion that was on the budget committee the way all the clubs do. I haven't changed my mind, so the moment I'm asked, I'm going to give twice the dissenting opinion. Why 2024, 2025? It's because there's so much uncertainty. I think it is much better to have a longer term than to extend it every year and, if necessary, to shorten it when it turns out that it is not necessary. And that may prove to be for two reasons. Firstly, there will be no extraordinary profits, so even though windfall tax will be introduced as a principle - if there are no extraordinary profits, the tax is zero, because I will not meet the basis. Of course, that can happen, and it's hard... to argue about what profits are going to be in those industries and those sectors in 2024 and 2025. So this is a simple reason that from my point of view it's better to have it by the end of the term, it doesn't go beyond the end of the term. That's also very, very important for us to say that we're not overreacting. And if circumstances permit, I will be the first to propose the abolition of this tax. I'm not happy that we're introducing this tax. [[12.00 hours]] I'm just gonna repeat what sometimes fits in with this passionate debate. Exceptional tax, extraordinary income, use only for extraordinary expenses, not for usual expenses, not for ordinary, but for the usual expenditure of the state budget, because there is also a normal amount of capital expenditure. Why PN and not the government? [[Parliamentary proposal]] The only reason is time and legal deadlines. The moment I do it at second reading, we can discuss it, if the government sends it here, we'll lose at least ten days in the legislative process. Then, when you start counting it, even with good faith, shortening the deadline between the first, the second, the second and the third, the Senate 30 days, the president, you can't rule out the return of the law, whether from the Senate or from the President, and we'd already be in 2023. I'm not happy about it, but the only reason was this time factor. Obstruction: I have never used the word obstruction, for Mr Nacher, through the Vice-President. I've never used the word obstruction. [[Attention from President Schiller that the President has changed.]] Oh, Vice-President, I'm sorry, I didn't notice there was a change in management. So I agree with that, budget obstructions are not common, I don't remember them and I haven't noticed any in this parliamentary term, that's perfectly appropriate (?). And the opposition's entry. I know it wasn't enough time, but I think it's fair to say that I introduced the proposal to President Schillerová first, about two weeks before I put it in the system, and about seven days before I put it in the system, I put it at her disposal. I'm aware of the enormously short time, I apologized for it last time, but I'm going back to the answer to the time and legal deadlines. There was no purpose, no intention. I hope I answered everything I was asked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I wish you a nice noon. We will continue with the debate, but before that, I will read the apologies. Today, from 10.30 for reasons of work for the whole day, Mrs Iveta Štefanová apologizes. And so we will continue now. Mrs Berenika Peštová is duly applied for and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'll take it a little bit off the other keg. I read an interesting article in Hospodářské noviny yesterday, and the article was written by Mr David Brzek, a FIO investment company, and was called the People's Creativity of the Czech Government in dealing with the energy crisis. I have read into it, I am very interested in it, and I would like to give it to you - it is not long - I would like to read it to you and then, of course, comment on it further with my words to the end: "Although I am not a big fan of the EU's bureaucratic and regulatory approach to individual areas of life on the old continent, in terms of addressing the energy crisis and seeking funding for the consequences, it has come up with a relatively clear EU approach. The adopted EU Council Regulation 2022/1854 of 6 October this year lays down rules on how to secure the necessary resources. In addition to efforts to reduce consumption, the system is based on two separate basic points. The first is the setting of a ceiling for market revenue applicable to electricity producers and the compulsory levy of revenue above that ceiling. The second point is the temporary solidarity contribution from the excessive profits of companies operating in the crude oil, natural gas, coal and refining sectors. The second point does not apply' - I note it does not - "electricity producers, they are dealt with separately within the first point by ceilinging revenue. A solidarity contribution of at least 33 per cent of the excess profits is to be temporary and the regulation does not count" - it does not count! - "on account after 2023. Our domestic government, in which I too put great trust, is shielded by the fact that, in addition to adding the banking sector, the Czech version of the applications of the European solution is the Czech version. That is clearly not true. The Czech version does not logically combine the two mentioned points for electricity producers." You hear me well, both of you. "The EU regulation does not talk about this approach at all and, on the contrary, it clearly separates both models for each sector. In the Czech Republic, it is an attempt to take revenues from electricity producers above the ceiling, which I consider appropriate, and at the same time, from what remains of them, to calculate their tax on excessive profits. The illogical design of double taxation will significantly reduce the investment capacity of energy companies. It also does not fit the temporaryity when the Czech solution is designed until 2025, plus with a fixed benchmark base. I understand and do not question the need to get the resources to deal with the difficult situation. I am just very surprised why the implementation of the clear rules has turned into folk creativity, which can very negatively affect the perception of the Czech Republic in the eyes of foreign investors, who are indispensable for the development of our economy." That's the end of the article. I'm saying it wasn't long, it was very interesting to me, and I think that's exactly what was mentioned here several times. If this amendment were part of an amendment to the law and went through a proper legislative process, this situation would not have occurred. Even if this amendment went through an accelerated inter-ministerial reminder procedure and everyone concerned was invited, I mean, all the organisations involved would not be in this situation. Let's face it, our government overslept. The year 2022 began to solve until the end of 2022 - which the other countries did not - because we were waiting for a signal. Thank God for the gifts that the year 2022 isn't there, because I would look forward to the courts that would come, so the year 2022 isn't there. But I do not understand the illogicalness as well as the beautifully described in the article, why it doubles taxation, why 2024, 2025. Yes, it mentions that Member States can also proceed to their solution, but in any case in the regulation it was only 2022, 2023. I will not repeat what my colleagues have said here because I would repeat myself unnecessarily. I do not know whether all the questions that have been raised in this article will be answered, whether it be double taxation or prediction, which is there that we could get into the problem of investing in the eyes of foreign investors as well. It is true that it was not mentioned in the article that the advances that will be, in the next year, will have to be returned if there is no such profit, but these are all the question marks that are here, and I am more interested in why we have the year 2024, 2025 when what Patrik Nacher, my colleague, said through the President, can be adjusted in 2023. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u55	Thank you, too. I will read an apology: today, as of 12.45, Mrs Eliška Olšáková apologizes for reasons of work. Mr Marek Benda will be next in the debate and Mr Josef Kott will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u56	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this part of the debate, let me withdraw my proposal under letter K in the Houses of the Press 254/2. This is a change to the gambling tax law. It is so many question marks causing a reduction in lottery tax, not from gambling - I consider the proposal right until now, I believe that we will return to it next year, but since it has not been a coalition agreement, I consider it impossible for us to vote on it today. Therefore, I recommend that it be withdrawn or withdrawn, only the House must give its consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have noted your proposal and will vote on the withdrawal of your proposal before the procedure. Thank you. Mr Josef Kott will now prepare Mr Jiří Havránek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, knowing that the President of the Agricultural Committee now present will take a step towards reading the legislative technical regulation, I would nevertheless like to draw attention to two amendments that are read in the system as 1473 and 1476. These are amendments which deal with a matter relating essentially to agricultural holdings. This discussion was held here at second reading, the Minister spoke of the fact that, in essence, it does not have to worry agricultural enterprises that they would get over the limit of CZK 2 billion, with their extraordinary profits taxed, however, the justification from the Ministry of Finance is therefore going in an unknown direction for me and it is written here that the effects of reducing the interim impact of the introduced tax on unexpected profits in the order of billions would be reflected essentially, and the effectiveness of the amendment, as the Minister submitted it, would pass. On the other hand, I am very pleased that a legislative technical regulation will be loaded which removes energy and gas from this, which I think is very good news, but I would like to ask you to jointly support the amendment by the Chairman of the agricultural committee, Marek Kučera, who actually shifts 50 per cent of its limit... or, in my opinion, it is cleaner that, in essence, how companies in the group will be sure, provided that they do not achieve more than 50% of the profits of selected activities, that they do not have to worry about anything at all. Thank you again for reading the legislative technical regulation and to some extent it will calm the agricultural public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u59	Thank you. Just for the record, the amendments under letter F remain as voting amendments? Thank you. Mr Jiří Havránek will now appear, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u60	Thank you. Beautiful noon. I originally only wanted to step out of the position of rapporteur, but there was much to be said here, and I would like to respond to that. I admit right away that I'm a little sorry about today's media headlines, when we only hear about introducing a new special tax, and what's still important in the tax package came up. That is why I am happy to repeat this, because this tax package extends the flat-rate tax, which is a plus for entrepreneurs, and therefore it is actually the adoption of one amendment by Mrs Schillerová, who is still preciseing the flat-rate tax adjustment, and I am very pleased that this is, of course, a simplification of the administration for Czech entrepreneurs. And there will literally be a shift in the threshold for the obligation to log in to payment of VAT. Why am I saying finally? It was said here by Mrs Schillerová that it was the completion of her work. I remember because I was writing the amendments tabled by my colleagues at the time by the ODS Members, which included the proposals for this increase with suspensive effect at the time, so that there would be room for this matter to be discussed in the position or in the area of the European Union. We were then based on Slovenia's proposal, which managed to make this change. I am so glad that, after six of these votes and one more vote on the accompanying resolution, when it was not said today, I believe, this will go well. And we also actually have it in the tax package, in the original proposal, and last but not least the extension of the deadlines for the inspection report. And now for what has actually been said here today, the comparison, the super gross wage and its interference versus windfall tax and the relation to RUD. Now the municipalities, the cities, the regions, the state takes nothing away, and I thank my colleagues from the opposition, from whom it has been said that the state does not take anything. Moreover, the funds obtained by this tax are used by the state to stop energy prices and fight more energy, which, of course, will also help municipalities, and even more after the last enlargement by the government. This, what I say, has been said, whether it was on Wednesday for the Committee on Budgets, so on the Committee on Public Administration, by Deputy Secretary Tyll and I believe that this position is essentially in agreement with the Minister, that these extraordinary revenues will indeed be used for extraordinary expenses. And speaking of the G-book discussion on the Public Administration Committee today, which is going on and going on, I feel like we're getting close to some of the crashes in the city's finances, municipalities and regions. It's not true, it's not really possible, because it's not just about income from this extraordinary tax. And I'll take the numbers because yesterday we were discussing, and I think they accepted unanimously on the Public Administration Committee, just my report on the G notebook, the balance of management. This year: municipalities balance in plus 28.2 billion, regions 8.8 billion, next year predictions of the municipality plus 19.9 billion, regions 6.1 billion. And I'll take one more note here. Yes, according to the justification contained in the G-book, this is due to the previous year's RUD change, and I thank you for the Senate's activity at the time. And the last part of my speech: in agreement with the remaining petitioners and also with the coalition agreement, I withdraw my amendment, which you will find under number 1487, so we will not vote on this amendment. Thank you for your attention and all Karl's happy birthday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u61	I have noted the request to withdraw your amendment. I will now ask for the presentation of Mr Margita Balaštíková and Mr Jan Jakob will prepare himself. Mrs Balaštíková is not present in the hall. Mr Jan Jakob, with a factual remark? Please, I've registered your factual remark. Madame is not in the hall, in which case I will ask Mr Jakob to speak. Mr. Michal Kučera will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u62	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I apologize for the error of fact. I want to speak to my amendment, which I tabled with my colleague Nový. It's under the letter H, in the procedure it's House document number 1467. I am withdrawing this amendment, so I will ask that a withdrawal be put to the vote. I stand by its essence, but there was no coalition agreement, which I respect. At the same time, I am very pleased and thank you for the coalition partners that we agreed that in the next year we will carefully monitor how large the extraordinary returns are and how large the extraordinary costs are, and we will evaluate and adjust the situation accordingly. So thank you for that, and I am withdrawing this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u63	Thank you. I've noticed a proposal under the letter "H." To the rapporteur. You downloaded the amendment under what letter? N, okay, 1487. Thank you. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, Mr Jakub Michal Michálek, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u64	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on my amendment under G, House Press 254. This amendment was intended to address the situation or to respond to concerns about the agricultural sector or, in particular, the agricultural sector, that the taxation of exceptional profits would also include the production of energy from biogas, or biogas stations and renewable sources, i.e. production which is important for the activities of these undertakings, but does not constitute an essential source of income. We're in charge of it, or I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it, and I'm in charge of it. There was a rather large discussion with the Ministry of Finance, when we tried to clarify how important the amendment was or not necessary. The Ministry of Finance argued that, as the law itself is, or the amendment of Minister Stanjura, read, there is no need for this amendment. We had a meeting yesterday with the management of the agricultural committee and Deputy Minister Kouba of the Ministry of Finance, where we tried to come up with a solution. We finally found the solution. The solution is that, firstly, a legislative technical amendment to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's amendment will be read, which will specify the whole text quote in order to remove the concerns and doubts that occurred during the discussion of the tax on unexpected profits, namely the interpretation of what revenues are tested for the purposes of the qualification of the taxpayer for the tax on unexpected profits. It is therefore merely a clarification or confirmation that the revenue decisive for meeting the limit of 2 billion is only revenue from the decisive activities of the tax on unexpected profits, not all the income of the taxpayer, which is based on the annual aggregate net turnover only on those decisive activities. This interpretation is already based on the proposed paragraph 17c. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7. So this refinement will clearly confirm and refute the concerns that agricultural holdings have had. I am glad that we were able to confirm this throughout the management of the agricultural committee, that is, with representatives of all parties in the Chamber of Deputies. I will read this legislative technical amendment in a detailed debate. [[The President requests that he load it at this time.]] Now, huh? So I'm going to load it now, yes. So let me read it now: "Legislative technical amendment of Mr Ing's amendment. The Stanjura for the Government Bill, which amends Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 254." So I'm reading the text of the legislative technical regulation. "In point 1 of the amendment under point C, the proposed section 17c para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. And the words "of these activities" shall be inserted after the word "accounting." I have already said the reasons, but I will read it quickly: "The proposed legislative technical regulation supplemented by § 17c para. 7, the Income Tax Act aims to remove the concerns or doubts that occurred during the course of the discussion of the tax on unexpected profits, as regards the interpretation of the revenue to be tested for the purposes of the qualification of the taxpayer for the tax on unexpected profits.' It is merely a clarification or confirmation that the revenue decisive for meeting the limit of 2 billion is only revenue from the decisive activities for the tax on unexpected profits, not all income from the taxpayer, which is based on the annual total net turnover only on those decisive activities. This interpretation is already based on the proposed § 17c para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 and 6. The proposed regulation is confirmed only for greater legal certainty in its section. 7." So much for the proposal of legislative technical regulation. Thanks to the fact that this legislative technical regulation has been read, there will be no need to load or vote on my amendment under letter G. I hereby propose to withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u65	Yes, I noted both of your proposals - to withdraw the amendment under G and to vote on legislative technical regulation at the beginning. Mr Jakub Michálek will now appear and prepare Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I am very pleased that we have managed to bring this matter to an end, because the tax on unexpected profits has been a proposal that we have been seeking since May of this year. Of course, if we had not agreed, we would have cost the state many tens of billions of crowns and thus burdened state budgets. Now a few words to change, which I propose. I propose and consider it right that medium-sized banks, which have a profit on interest of over CZK 2 billion, contribute to the cost of war and expensiveness. In the outlook, this proposal would bring about CZK 8 billion to the state budget within three years, which otherwise the medium-sized banks will transfer to their owner. Given the amount of state debt, I believe that we cannot afford such costs. Given that the tax is not all income or profits, but only extraordinary profits over 20% of the band, in my opinion and in the opinion of the bank experts with whom I consulted, there is no risk of destabilising the banking market in the adoption of this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u67	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u68	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to draw attention to a few mistakes in relation to this proposal. The government's five-calice plans to prescribe a tax on unexpected profits. I believe this is a mistake because it is not unexpected profits. It's actually an unexpected income, and there's a big difference between income and profit. I fear that when, in March and June 2024, companies affected by this tax maneuver hand over their tax returns, you will find a striking unexpected income in your eyes and a beating unexpected power of little gain. The second mistake is that you presented this ruse as extraordinary, as if there had never been such a tax. I would just point out a short memory because in 2010 the so-called solar tax was introduced. Coincidentally, the Prime Minister was the Prime Minister of ODS, and this tax is still in effect if I have the correct information. Therefore, your proposal is merely a response to some kind of botched support that you should have put in place earlier at the levels that your European colleagues have chosen. However, they did not deal with this in Brussels and did not wait for what was decided in Brussels and dealt with it at home in their countries. So if you had agreed to do this, we could have had a ceiling somewhere around CZK 2,000, like they have in the surrounding states, and we certainly didn't have to have a ceiling of 6050 like we have today. You could have agreed to introduce a ceiling for manufacturers, so they could cool the whole market down. We will pay tens of billions of crowns for this mistake of yours, and I hope that markets will calm down and prices will not rise higher. [[12.30 hours]] The third mistake is that you're telling us in advance that in three years you're gonna cancel the tax. And I ask, do you have a crystal ball and are you absolutely sure that the war in Ukraine will end and that within three years Europe's energy balance will be balanced? The same is true of inflation, of course, because I want to know if you really know that inflation will fall and that the central bank will lower its rates. I hope so, of course, but I expect the Finance Minister to consider the worst-case scenario to prepare for this, and instead, I see an impenetrable, unsubstantiated optimism here. Fourth mistake, maybe you could call it impertinence...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u69	I apologise, Madame, but my fellow Members, after all, I ask you to keep your voice down, so that you understand what the honourable Member is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u70	That you are so sure of your majority in Parliament that you have submitted to us for approval first the state budget, where you have drawn your income from this tax in advance, and now you assume that this sticker with a peaceful calm will be approved again by your majority. And I am sorry that you, who have always had a mouth full of democracy, where you have labeled someone that is not democratic, and in practice you are not even trying to be polite to the opposition. And the fifth mistake is that the way you presented this tax to the public, and especially to the financial markets, you may have caused billions of damages by publicly arguing about retroactivity, rates, validity, and taxpayers. This proposal of yours has not been passed by the Government's Legislative Council, and when you start collecting money, it can be the target of legitimate and very successful legal attacks. It doesn't change the fact that you've renamed this tax a war tax because I think it's pure euphemism. No one's profiting from the war here, the profit is from completely different sources. And when someone says you're being messy, after today, I feel like you're acting a little bit of a "and after us a flood" system. I'm sorry, because I didn't expect that kind of action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u71	Thank you, too, Madame. At this point, I do not see anyone else enrolled in the general debate, and if this is the case and no one is reporting, I am ending the debate. Do I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants the final word? The Minister wants the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u72	Thank you for the floor. It will be a very short final word, which will only be devoted to the extraordinary tax. Once again, it will only be for extraordinary expenses. I will now not actually discuss conflicting criticism from the opposition, when on the one hand it says why it is in 2024, and then we hear why it ends in 2025, and so on. I mean, we've decided to put down prices for end-users, households, small and medium-sized companies. At the same time, we will make use of the European regulation, which will allow price ceilings for every megawatt hour produced, or we will put a price on the producer's side. And in that windfall, we're criticized for giving insurance from the manufacturer to the end customer in the chain if there was an extraordinary profit in that chain to pay this extraordinary tax where it originated. So if you look at the structure, it has the logic of the manufacturer's price ceiling, the end-customer price ceiling and potentially windfall in the chain between the manufacturer and the end-customer. Deal, and you'll see it in the next few days that we're gonna do the price cap on the megawatt hour produced by the source. It is perfectly logical that each source of electricity has different costs. I mean, I don't share the concern that these two instruments will destroy someone economically. In all considerations, this is the cost plus a reasonable profit, that is for the levies. I repeat, costs plus reasonable profit, we're not losing anyone. And we're talking about extraordinary profits in windfalls. So I don't see and share the concern that it might harm someone economically. But what is crucial - we understand this money, and many of those who get the tax because we actually deal with them on an expert basis almost a day, sometimes at a political level, understand very well - that many of these profits are due to external circumstances, and they understand the need to share them in solidarity with the rest of society, whether by households or by other entrepreneurs who, due to external circumstances, do not have higher profits, on the contrary, have higher costs. I consider this text a good compromise within the government coalition, I want to thank all partners. I also want to call on the opposition to join if their programme and their approach allow them to do so. If not, I fully respect that. A very frequent complaint was about the time course of the hearing and I said at first reading (?): Yes, it is justified. I was just trying to explain in second reading and in today's reading that we had no other choice, that there was no other way to vote for another form of discussion so that we had, if the majority were in the House and the Senate, so that we could not drag the problem of retroactivity from 2022 to 2023. I am pleased that the basic parameters to help the business sector have support, the basic steps, the increase in the VAT registration limit and the increase in the flat-rate tax limit. Yes, we differ in some parameters, but I think there is a substantial consensus, so it is clear that these projects will work successfully and in the long term. The parameter isn't that important. Yes, we have an opinion whether two bands or three bands, and we have agreed that the band simply cannot be worked out fairly and set up the drafts, but if you support this part of the law and the opposition, I thank you for the small entrepreneurs in particular, because these good changes to the legislation are aimed at them. At the same time, I understood it from the discussion in all three readings, I think we're following up on a good example of the increased extraordinary depreciation from 2021, we're following up on... I don't have to... somebody said admit it, I won't admit it, but I'm saying it. It was a good idea in the last parliamentary term, which supported I think all the political parties then, and when they proved themselves, there was no reason not to support the investment activity of our companies and our entrepreneurs at this difficult time. And I am glad that once again, as in the last parliamentary term, it has broad political support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u73	Thank you. I understand that the rapporteur is not asking for the final word. Mrs Schillerová is still applying with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I would only have a very brief and clear request. Could you explain to us which of these mutually exclusive amendments, I think, to the tax on extraordinary profits, the coalition will vote on what it agreed on? I watched the debate very carefully all day, and I did not move - except for a few minutes - from the O.R. I understand that some amendments have been withdrawn, I think that President Jakob, Mr Kučera, Mr Benda, has withdrawn his amendment, but that is from another case. However, I did not notice that Mr Michálek would withdraw his amendments. So now we have your amendment, which has 6 billion, 2 billion parameters, 60 percent for three years, we all know what we're talking about. Then there is a Member or President Michálek, who says in one variant of 2 billion, in one variant of 3 billion. What's the five-caliber match? We'd like to know. We'd like to know what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u75	Thank you. Minister with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u76	It's not usual for us to debate like this, but why not? I think it's pretty clear from what was on the microphone. At this point in time, the only proposal from the coalition Members remained in the two options of President Michálek, and I have expressed my position on this point on a direct question from Mr Nacher. The vote shall be decided. I don't want to run into the past, but it's nothing unusual that government parties... We only have partial disagreements, partial disagreements from the parameters, from the whole package, from all the changes that we have here in VAT. So far, we have one small disagreement with one amendment in two options. [[12.40 hours]] After all, we all remember when there were only two coalition parties, that there was a fundamental disagreement and that there was a vote on the law as a whole and on the key amendment made by Mr Andrej Babiš, these two coalition parties voted completely against each other, and without opposition votes, the proposal failed. At this point, we are declaring our common position by coalition voices. If the opposition joins, it is a good thing, but our common position, which we agreed on, is voted out by coalition voices. I hope I made that quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u77	Thank you. In any case, by now speaking, Minister, you have reopened the debate because you have spoken beyond the final word. In fact, Radek Vondráček is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u78	My factual point was merely symbolic. I just wanted to point out that the debate was open, but I don't have anything to say about it just so that anyone who wanted to - can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u79	Thank you. So I am asking if anyone else is joining the debate: I see no one else, I am ending the debate. Even in this case, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will ask whether you want to have the final words - the Minister or the rapporteur? [[- No, thank you.]] It's not like that, thank you. I'll read an apology. Today, from 18 to 23 o'clock for family reasons, Mrs Lucie Potůčková apologises. Since we have closed the debate, I now ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then he has presented the various amendments and delivered an opinion before voting on them. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u80	Thank you. We have a little bit more specific today that we should therefore vote here before legislative technical amendments on the withdrawal of individual amendments, which means, I believe, the proposals of H, G, N and K.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u81	Yes, I confirm, Amendment G, Mr Kučera, Mr H, Mr Jakob, Mr N, Mr Havránek and Mr K, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u82	Yes, H, N, G and K. Not one at a time - I don't know, according to the legislation we can do one at a time. [[Minister Stanjura: One at a time.]] Okay. In that case, we will start in order, the first was, if I remember correctly, the amendment Mr Benda, who dealt with the gambling law, namely the lottery.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u83	I'm sorry, I'm registering for your check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all first. I'd like you to sign up with your cards. And now we will vote on the withdrawal of the amendment under the letter K to Mr Benda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the withdrawal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 4, registered 157 Members and Members, for proposal 157, against no one. The proposal was adopted and the amendment was withdrawn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u84	The second was the amendment N to Mr Havránek and others, exempting commodity traders from tax on unexpected profits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u85	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the withdrawal of this amendment? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 5, 158 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 103, against 52. This amendment was also withdrawn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u86	The third proposal to withdraw was Mr Jakob, an amendment H, which was intended to adjust the rate of tax on unexpected profits to 40 per cent for the years 2024 and 2025.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u87	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of withdrawing the amendment? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 6, 158 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 106, against none. The proposal has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u88	And the last proposal, that is, to withdraw, was the g amendment to pan Michal Kučera. Additional condition for being a taxpayer for an unexpected profit tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u89	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the withdrawal of this amendment? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 7, 158 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 103, against 53. This proposal, too, has been excluded from the vote. I therefore ask you, rapporteur, to introduce us to the voting procedure on the remaining amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u90	Thank you. You have all received the procedure as the 167th Budget Committee resolution. First of all, we would therefore vote on one legislative technical regulation, which was made here from the mouth of Mr Kučera. We would then move on to the various amendments in order: first, the amendments to the flat-rate tax I1, M1, I2, I3, M2. Then the amendment approved by the Committee under letter A, that is the limit for filing a tax return. Subsequently, the tax block on unexpected profits, these are amendments after some have fallen, M, D in variant 1, D in variant 2, F, L, B, J and C, this is the whole of Minister Stanjura. Subsequently, the last other changes are the three amendments tabled by Mr Hrnčíř. E1, E2 and E3. And then the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u91	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone has a proposal to modify or change the voting procedure? I don't see a suggestion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 8, 159 Members and Members signed in, for proposal 159, against no one. We agreed to the procedure, and I will therefore ask you to take us through the vote and before each amendment you gave the opinion of the Guarantee Committee, and then the Minister will give the opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u92	Thank you. We will therefore begin with amendments concerning flat-rate taxes. The first amendment - Sorry, Mr Kučera's legislative technical regulation, it was said here. [[President: Legislative technical adjustment.]] In point 1 of the amendment under point C, the proposed section 17c para. 7 (a) the words "of these activities" shall be inserted after the word "accounting."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u93	Thank you. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of legislative technical regulation? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 9, registered 159 Members and Members, in favour of proposal 159, against none. We have expressed our consent to this proposal. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u94	So, and now, indeed, the amendments. First, Mrs Lucie Šafránková, the introduction of three flat-rate zones. If this proposal is adopted, the proposals M1, I2, I3 and M2 are unvoted. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]] The opinion of the Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u95	Mr. Secretary? [[- Disagree.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 10, 159 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 14, against 90. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u96	Now, the M1 amendment to Mrs Schillerová is a reduction in the number of flat-rate zones from three to two. If this amendment is adopted, amendments I2 and I3 are unvoted. [[President: Opinion of the Committee?]] The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u97	Mr. Secretary? [[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 11, 159 Members of Parliament have entered, in favour of proposal 70, against 89. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u98	Now, therefore, Amendment I2 by my colleague Lucie Šafránková, reducing the advances on income tax in the second and third zones of the flat-rate regime. If this amendment is adopted, Amendment I3 is unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u99	Committee opinion? [[Unadvisable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 12; 159 Members and Members are registered, for 14, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u100	Now, therefore, Amendment I3, once again, by Mrs Lucie Šafránková, the reduction of income tax advances in the second and third zones of the flat-rate regime, however, the reduction is lower than in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u101	Committee opinion? [[No opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 13; 159 Members and Members are registered, for 14, against 88. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u102	Thank you. Now, therefore, Amendment M2, Mrs Schillerová, the repayment of a part of the public insurance policy in excess of the amount corresponding to the lower band of the flat-rate scheme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u103	Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] [[Noise in the hall.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. We're voting. It is a vote with order number 14, registered 159 Members and Members, for proposal 154, against no one. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u104	Thank you. So we will now move on to the committee amendment under letter A, a proposal concerning an increase in the tax return limit. The opinion of the Committee shall be agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u105	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 15, registered 159 Members, for 158, against no one. The proposal has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u106	Now the amendments to the tax on unexpected profits. We will be the first to vote on Amendment M3 by Mrs Schillerová, who aims to shorten the period for the application of the tax on unexpected profits only for 2023.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u107	Committee opinion? [[No opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 16, 159 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 68, against 84. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u108	Since Amendment H has been withdrawn, we are moving on to Amendment D, this time in variant 1 of Mr Michálek, reducing the limits of the decisive income for the tax on unexpected profits, for banks to CZK 2 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u109	Committee opinion? [[No opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 17, 159 Members of Parliament, in favour of 4, against 58, are entered. No consent has been given to the proposal. Please, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u110	By failing to approve the D1 option, we can also vote on the D2 variant, also Mr Jakub Michálek, once again reducing the family income limit for the tax on unexpected profits, but for banks to 3 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u111	Committee opinion? [[Even here without an opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 18, 157 Members and Members are registered, for 4, against 49. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u112	The next amendment is Amendment F, Mr Josef Kott, to increase the limit of decisive income for tax on unexpected profits from 2 billion to 6 billion, which is therefore outside the banks. And here is the opinion of the committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u113	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 19, 158 Members of Parliament, for proposal 56, against 86, are entered. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u114	Amendment G has been withdrawn by Mr Kučera, which is why the amendment l by Mr Kubíček followed, the narrowing of the decisive activity for the tax on unexpected profits only for electricity production and not for sale.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u115	Committee opinion? [[Unadvisable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 20, 158 Members are registered, for 56, against 86. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u116	Amendment N has been withdrawn, so we are moving directly towards Amendment B by Mr Karel Havlíček, an additional condition for being the taxpayer of the tax on unexpected profits in the event of distribution. Here is the opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u117	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 21 is signed by 158 Members, for proposal 56, against 88. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u118	The next is the proposal by Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, under the letter J, to maintain a shared tax return on unexpected profits within the RUD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u119	Opinions first. The rapporteur, the guarantee committee? [[No opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] First, I'm gonna check you all out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. Looks like I have to do it again. I'm sorry. Please sign in. Opinions have been made. We can put it to a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 22, 155 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 68, against 58. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u120	The last in the block on the tax on unexpected profits is therefore the very introduction of this tax, Amendment C by the Minister of Finance and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u121	Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 23, 155 Members and Members, for 85, against 1. The proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u122	Now the block of other amendments to income tax, first of all Amendment E1 to Mr Hrnčíř, 10% corporate tax rate for legal entities with income up to CZK 2 million per year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u123	Committee opinion? [[Unadvisable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 24, 157 Members and Members have entered, in favour of proposal 14, against 88. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u124	The next is Amendment E2, once again, Mr Hrnčíř - raising the limit for the exemption of occasional personal income to CZK 50,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u125	Committee opinion? [[She's unadvisable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 25; 157 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 15, against 76. No consent has been given to the proposal. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u126	And the last amendment under the letter E3, again colleague Jan Hrnčíř, this time increasing the discount on husband and wife to CZK 30,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u127	Committee opinion? [[The opinion of the Committee was: without an opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 26, 157 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 15, against 65. If I have the right data, we've been through all the amendments. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u128	It's everything, however...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u129	We therefore voted on all the amendments. [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] If all the proposals have been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill, but before that, I will give priority to the President of Alena Schillerová's club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We are now - the YES movement - in a pretty schizophrenic situation, because as far as the amendment dealing with the tax on extraordinary profits, in the words of your government advisor, you have approved the pasquil. I don't want to be an evil prophet, but I have great doubts about the decrees. I'm not happy about it. I hope, Minister, that you realize that if this experiment doesn't work, it's up to you to resign. Anyway, now we have a final vote on the tax package. You took the tax package for a hostage. This is basically a tax package that our government has largely worked off. I thanked you for dragging him in, unfortunately you burdened him with an amendment concerning the tax on extraordinary profits. Yesterday, the ANO movement club mostly leaned to support the package at its meeting. I myself will support, because I cannot imagine not supporting an increase in the VAT limit to 2 million, that I would not increase the accelerated depreciation, all the things that we have worked hard for our government and the Treasury for my leadership, but some of my colleagues simply cannot raise their hand. They are mayors, deputy mayors, local politicians, people who disagree in particular with the fact that you have shortened the regions, cities and municipalities, that you have not taken into account any of our fundamental - which we consider essential - amendments that we have read during the hour during the wild second reading. So I think how I understood yesterday's mood at the club of the ANO movement that we will support mostly. I say yes for myself, but for the reasons that I have said here, because the tax on extraordinary profits has gone down and you have put your head on a block. Unfortunately, with you and the future of this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u131	As the next priority right, Mr. Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala is ready to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u132	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, too, to comment on this law. We too believe that this is not a law that is well processed. It's a law that's being processed very quickly, and it didn't go through a commentary procedure, which is why it's visible in the law. After all, we already have signals that it has not yet been approved, and we already have signals that this law will be sued precisely because of how it was prepared or rather unprepared. That is one thing why we cannot support this law. And secondly, we're very skeptical that the government is going to choose something from excessive profits because of this law. We'd be dealing with this, first of all, in a completely different way, and second of all, I think the only thing you're gonna teach those companies and those banks to optimize. Whether you choose nothing for two or three years, because everything will be legally so optimized that we will not have a crown left in the Czech Republic. So, for the SPD, I am clearly saying that we are not going to support this law, and it does not have our support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u133	I will read the motion for a resolution - no one with priority rights is claiming any more. Thus: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, Act No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to House press 254, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 27, 158 Members are registered, for proposal 106, against 2 and I am stating that the bill has been approved. I'll thank you and hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-04-ps2021-044-01-002-002.u134	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Opening point number
