ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 40th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, so I ask you to re-enter your identification cards and, if necessary, tell me who is asking for a replacement card, as Mr Munzar has already done, who will vote with card number 27. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 102 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 23 September 2022. We will now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková. I see we're not yet in sufficient numbers. So please sign up with your cards so that we can vote on this. I don't see anyone else having a proposal about the meeting's verifiers. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If this is not the case, I shall initiate the vote on the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number one, 104 were registered, for 103, against none. And I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová, and Renáta Zajíčková, as verifiers of the 40th meeting. I hereby declare that until the opening of the meeting, the whole of the meeting, the Miloslav of the Pastuchová Jana, the whole of the working day, the total of the working day, the total of the Pivoňka day, the Gazdík of the Vaňková Pavla, the total of the Michal Tomáš, the Blaha of the Nacher day, the total of the working Patrik, the total of the Potůčková Lucie, the total of the Okamura day, the Bělor of the Roman day, Flek Josef from the whole of the working day, the total of the working day, the Beitl of the Milan Taťána, the total of the Brázdil day, the Bačíková of the Jana day, the Janulík of the Jáč Ivan, the total of the Richter Jan, Bžoch Jaroslav from the Monika of the Ondřej Lochman, the total of the working day, the total of the Ondřej day, the Stanislav of the working day, the Kučera of the working day, Exner Martin from 9 to 11 hours of the Petr day of the Robert Levko, the Jarmila of the Babiš day, the whole of the Oulehlová Renata, the whole of the Kubík Jan, the full of the working day, the total of the working day, the period, the period, the period of the period of the period of the working day, the period, the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the last of the working day, Ryba Drahoslav from 12.30 pm for work reasons, Skopeček Jan throughout the day due to foreign travel, Staněk Pavel full meeting day - working reasons, Svoboda Pavel due to foreign travel throughout the day, Šebelová Michaela from 17.30 for work reasons, Šimek David from 14 o'clock for work reasons, Špičák Julius from the whole meeting day for family reasons, Štolpa David from the whole meeting day for reasons of work, Válková Helena for health reasons for the whole meeting day, Vrána Petr the whole meeting day for health reasons, Ženíšek Marek from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel. For health reasons, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, Minister Ivan Bartoš apologizes from 9 a.m. to 12 a.m. for work reasons, Baxa Martin from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Černochová Jana from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 11.45 p.m. for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Rakušan Vít from 9 a.m. to 17 p.m. for working reasons and Síkela Jozef from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 40th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Nevertheless, I have here with priority the President of the Excellent on the agenda if he wishes to use this application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues, I just wanted to remind you in the introduction that the programme, as it has been proposed today, concerns two key areas, and this is, on the one hand, the second reading of the State Budget amendment for 2022 and, second, the whole package of the amendment to the three laws of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I think that in detail about the thousands 291, 296 and 301 will then be discussed by the Vice Prime Minister and Minister Marian Jurečka, so there is no need for me to describe what the specifics of these matters are. However, it is about what has been discussed and discussed many times here in the Chamber of Deputies, whether it is the whole package of aid to people with disabilities, the question of contribution to mobility, compensatory aids and the like - this is the other press, where we are really burning our heels when it comes to the number of doctors in the review service. And the third issue concerns, in simple terms, early retirement in rescue professions. It will then be presented by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-29-ps2021-040-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Now I do not see anyone else registered, which is why we will vote on the whole draft agenda, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 128 present, for 126, against none, therefore the agenda of the meeting has been approved. So now we're going to proceed to the first point
