ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u1	33. Government bill amending Act No. 12/2020 Coll., on the right to digital services and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 287/ - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We interrupted the discussion of this point in the general debate on Tuesday, 6 September at the 35th meeting. I would remind you that at the hearing of this press pursuant to § 90 para. 2 was vetoed by two ANO 2011 and SPD MPs. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table as the plaintiff of the Prime Minister for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and rapporteur for first reading, Mr Robert králíček. We will now continue the interrupted debate in which the following Members signed up: Marek Novák and Marie Pošarová. 6 days. At the 35th meeting, Mr Marek Novák was interrupted in his speech in the debate. I ask, does the Member wish to continue? He's interested, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I was interrupted in my speech. I'm not gonna tell you all about it. I'm gonna sum up what I said. Firstly, I agree that it is necessary to make the IT structure more effective as such across the sector and for all ministries. One might even understand the idea of setting up a Digital Agency as a new body. Anyway, in the situation we're in, I don't think it's an entirely ideal solution, and in any event, I have a few fundamental points that discourage me from being in favour of this agency as such. The point is that, as a matter of principle, the bill was discussed in a reduced commentary procedure. The government was presented with six major contradictions. Even the Head of the Office of the Government has already argued that the bill should have been sent to an unlimited and unabbreviated commentary procedure and actually should not have been presented to the government at all as such until the agreement was at project level, because this is indeed a fundamental project, an intervention in the functioning of the IT structure in the state administration. Such a significant transformation requires that the process be set up in such a way that the State ensures the continuous provision of services to citizens so that the public is not affected by the intended transfer of the agenda in any way. The whole process should definitely be staged, which would provide sufficient time for consistent analysis, resource security and a proper legislative process, but it would also ensure smooth digitalisation at the turn of the year, when data boxes should be massively expanded. And we are very little talking about this because from next year, all legal entities will have a duty to set up data boxes, communicate through data boxes, and here there is a need for awareness, because business unions as such are already rebelling, asking us to delay the effectiveness of the introduction and obligations of data boxes, because they say: We are not ready. And I understand the small businessmen who have a problem with it, and I think that the best efforts we should be in this direction, how to help small businessmen now to be able and understand at all and actually be willing and agree with the idea that they need to set up data boxes, convince them that it will help them in their business, that it will make their communication more effective, but most importantly, that it will make their communication with the state administration more effective. And what happens very often in data boxes is that a citizen or also an entrepreneur has a data box, but the state itself or an organization established by him does not even know that he has the mailbox, and I communicate with it in the standard way. This happened to me, for example, at the Police of the Czech Republic, where they wanted me to pick something up, and I said to them, "Can't you send it to a data box?" Oh, you have a data box? So let's see where there are gaps, because on the one hand, we want people to have data boxes to communicate effectively, on the other hand, the state can't communicate. And I think, for example, in this particular case, the establishment of a Digital Agency isn't going to help us much. [[10.20 hours]] And when I go back to that agency, for example, the Ministry of Finance does not agree with the additional requirements for the state budget, and I am not surprised, and in this case, I commend the Ministry of Finance because we currently need the funds completely, but completely elsewhere, completely different from the establishment of a new agency, certainly not for any experiments. And right now, when I was trying to figure out if this budget is exactly what it is, if we know it's really going to be like that, I read in the explanatory memorandum that it's a rough estimate that it's possible that it's going to change even more and maybe it's going to be more or less over the next few years. So how am I supposed to decide whether it will benefit me, if I don't really know whether the costs incurred will fall on fertile land and whether the costs actually incurred on the one hand will substantially reduce my costs on the other hand? I can't go into a project like this. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Interior does not agree with the transfer of the technical management of the population register to the Digital and Information Agency, in particular because the maintenance of technical management at the Ministry of the Interior will facilitate certain processes. If it facilitates, on the other hand, the establishment of the Agency and the transfer of this agenda to the Agency, in the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, will actually complicate the communication. I don't know. I guess the Minister will answer that. We'll see, I'll be glad to know. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Interior fears that the proposed legislation will lead to a threat to the performance of the Ministry of the Interior's agenda and the performance of the public administration itself, as this effectively separates eGovernment from the public administration. I look forward to the answer that it is not. This concern is also enhanced by the fact that the state enterprise NAKIT is also to be transferred outside the Ministry of the Interior. So is the Digital Agency gonna run it, or who's gonna run it if the Ministry's worried? Next The Ministry of Interior does not agree with the construction that the Digital and Information Agency will exercise supervision under the Trusting Services Act for electronic transactions and will provide such services at the same time. According to the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, such a solution is contrary to the law of the European Union. Well, that kind of caught me off guard. How is it that the pirát here, who listen to Brussels so much, are proposing something that could be with European Union law? [[Contrary]] You wouldn't defend that. Well, I don't know, maybe you'll explain to me again that it's not, I'll be glad. Furthermore, not only is the Agency to be set up, but a new section is being established at the Office of the Government, and further costs will be incurred. But they're not calculated. And now is really not a good time to waste. I don't like it, and I really think that just how many ministries we have today, so it just says it's a waste. So please stop this waste. Stop throwing money away and start directing the money where it needs to be. In the context of a narrow circle of comment points to which the bill was sent, the Ministry of the Interior pointed out that the proposal was directly affected by other bodies that were not addressed. It is precisely because it has been sent to the accelerated and narrowed, that the Ministry of Justice has not been addressed, that the Czech National Bank has not been contacted and that the ICT sector, which I think is essential for this matter, has not been addressed at all. Therefore, I do not consider it appropriate by the appellant to take the form of a comment procedure, since it cannot be excluded that all relevant aspects have been taken into account in the review procedure. But here I understand that you really got into it under the right pirate's motto "blow 'em off!". It really is. The proposed bill suffers from insufficient analytical and explanatory evidence, which - in view of the consequences of the proposal and the costs to be incurred - would be expected to assess comprehensively the current state of affairs in the area of institutional security of information and communication technologies, identify its shortcomings and their causes and propose solutions that can withstand objective criticism in terms of eligibility to eliminate identified deficiencies. A very long story, but if I translate it into Czech - again uncertainty that the establishment of a Digital Agency will help solve problems within the IT structure, within the Czech Republic and the leadership of the Czech Republic. Instead, the explanatory memorandum and the RIA merely state that the current situation is not satisfactory and will resolve the establishment of a separate central administration. So you actually figured you'd figure it out by inventing a new agency, transferring a few people from those agendas to the Home Office, a few other people, I guess, if I remember it correctly from Tuesday, you said about 80, there's gonna be new seats. There will certainly be new stamps - and this is important because in Moravia we say: Give - I do not say the word - the function and he invents the stamp. The intention is not aligned with existing conceptual materials in the field of information and communication technologies. We have heard here that this is in line with the government's programming statement, but the documents that are still valid regardless of which government has approved them are simply not in line. So either you change your strategy as such and you follow a long-term strategy, or you follow a government statement, but please put it into some sort of conflict, because what's important to me isn't whether it's a government statement, but it's whether it's in the long-term processes in line with those steps, and not to change things here every four years, start something, start something, cancel something, officials run for us - well, they don't run for us, they just change their labels on the door like I heard here on Tuesday. [[What do you mean, "coordinated"?]] So let's change the labels on the door every four years and the result for the citizen will be what? Not at all, not at all, not at all. They're just gonna see his money being paid to the state rolling around the offices without being spent effectively. There is a risk of unwarranted costs for the implementation of the first phase of transformation in a situation where the next stages are not assessed in detail from the point of view of their feasibility. The pressure on the speed of the legislative process of the Act in question strengthens this risk. The budget for the creation of a new central body, as I have already said, is only grossly estimated and is rather downgraded. And that's what we heard here on Tuesday: It's not really going to happen, it's just going to change the labels on the door. It's useless for me to do that at all. [[10.30 hours]] According to the explanatory memorandum and the RIA final report, it is also recognised that the budget will develop and substantially increase over time. So we don't know how much money it's going to be, we figured it out, but we're still learning, it's essentially going to increase in time. To what extent will it increase in time? There is no independent exact economic analysis of the benefits of this office, or agency, in its final state. This, of course, leads to doubts about the economy of the chosen form of transformation. So again: This leads to doubts about the economy of the chosen form of transformation. It is expected with a very high increase in IT workers and you, Minister, certainly know what the situation is not only in the state sector but also in the private sector. The private sector today says we're missing about 20,000 IT specialists in the private sector. You're gonna tell me how many of them are missing in public, and that, and we all know that, it's much more difficult to get IT specialists into the public sector. And as I'm saying, these experts are simply not on the market right now. We know that, within the digital decade that has been approved by the European Commission, it is one of the main objectives, and I will be happy to participate actively in this goal, because it is really essential, we do not have IT specialists and let us address this question, where to take people, not how to set up an office, and then think about how and by whom I will meet them, because, as a result of the lack of their own expertise, these capacities will be demanded in the context of, of course, the procedure under the Public Procurement Act from suppliers operating in the relevant market, precisely from the private sector, which, however, is already lacking in IT specialists. And I'm sure you're referring to the fact that today, if you're asking for a contract about the performance, the time horizon is getting longer and longer. External supplies can, of course, make the project more expensive, we all know that, and I can go back to how we are able to reward an IT specialist in the public sector and how we are able to pay an IT specialist who is employed in the private sector. At the same time, the declared benefit is denied the possibility of a rapid and flexible response to demand in the case of procurement across the public administration to a newly considered state enterprise on the basis of the so-called in-house exemption. This state enterprise, like the Agency, will be a contracting entity within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act and will therefore have to act on its own in an appropriate type of procurement procedure. So I don't really see the acceleration here, I don't see the change in the process itself. This is indeed a very complex and demanding concept of the emergence of a new central government body, but it has not been discussed with the ICT sector, which is very much affected by this issue. According to my information, there was no discussion between the professional public, and when I looked at the commentary procedure, it only confirmed that this was the case, because many institutions that normally express themselves on these matters were not able to express themselves, even the Chamber of Commerce. And don't be mad at me, but you pirát, who really make round tables for every stupid thing, so don't be angry, but you haven't invited anyone to this crucial topic. Innovation means an investment that suppliers active in the relevant market are willing to make if they have at least a theoretical chance of assessing it. However, if the market is substantially narrowed as a result of the agency's operation and even of the established state enterprise, or even at certain levels, it will be a loss of the theoretical opportunity to assess the investment made in innovation, in the end, no innovation will actually occur and the market will become firm as such. There may be an increase in the digitalisation rate, but it will actually remain obsolete at that level, there will be no innovation. At the same time, there is a possibility that the Digital Agency will only cover and overcharge external supplies, which is a pretty big threat for me. You can't even tell by lack. And if I actually take all that summary, when I take what was going on in the commentary proceedings, who had the opportunity to express themselves, and even though I heard here that you were very actively communicating with the Ministry of the Interior, and then I read the fundamental comments in the commentary procedure that the Ministry of the Interior gave, it seems to me that the ministers of Bartoš and Rakušan did not really communicate with each other, because I do not understand it. I do not know how it is possible that the Ministry of the Interior has so many important comments on this matter. I think it's clearly incompetence and incompetence to communicate. It is a sufficient list of shortcomings that really only confirm me that this proposal cannot be discussed in a short procedure and that is why we have submitted a veto, but on the contrary, it is necessary to fundamentally revise it. And again, as I said in the introduction: I will be convinced that it is necessary to set up an agency or that it is necessary to do so differently, but I will not be convinced during the short-term procedure without a detailed discussion and certainly not without experts who have anything to say about it, and without experts who supply you today, who are actually your partners, business partners. So it is necessary to extend the time limits for me, in such a way that it is actually possible to discuss this draft law on committees in a really technical, relevant and sufficient manner. I therefore propose an extension of the deadline for committee discussions to 90 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u3	Thank you, and that is what the Prime Minister claims with priority rights, the 90-day proposed ones, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u4	I'd like to report to the whole thing that was said here, if you don't mind. With all due respect, Members of the Chamber of Deputies have the right, they have a duty even to make known to them the agendas that are not entirely close to them, because their vote will help decide whether this thing will go in this direction or that direction. I too have to admit that in four years of opposition work, I have had to study a lot of things, and if I had met a person who has been engaged in something for ten or twenty years, I might have raised my concerns, but I would not have put myself into the evaluation of people's professional competences. For example, you said that in the matter of the national agency, and you didn't say that if you wanted to... [[President: Through me.]] , through Mr President..., Madam President. [[Fun.]] It may be one such thing that, through this, Madam President, you have not even noticed that a woman is the head of the Office of the Government, not the head of the Office of the Government. But when you say, give the morons a stamp - you didn't use the word - or you talked about the incompetence of the people who handled it. When I mentioned how long this project had been going on - and it was the government of Andrej Babiš in 2018, which said that there was a need for this, even when the boss chose, and it was Vlado Dzurilla and it was in the SPCSS and in the NAKIT, so the thought was that these two would merge. There will be a strong central authority to help deliver things effectively at digitalisation level. [[10.40 hours]] Then came the covid, the trial stopped. The strong central force was already in the previous government's strategy, the fact that it didn't happen because of the covid was a mistake. I understand that, and we continue with what every state that was successful and able to deliver services to citizens, with what each state ended up with, had a strong authority that was superior, which pulled digitalization out of this, say, political governance in the sense of: I need to address this agenda now, there is no time for digitalisation. And when it sounded unprepared, unnegotiated. Eighty people across the resorts, including experts from the business sector in the Czech digital team after people from Deloitte, from the Confederation of Industry and Transport, all of them were there. I have countless external analyses, and in the project itself it's probably a stack like this, if I were to print it - we're not really printing things, we have them in digital form - so all the analyses of the change are. First of all, the thing you mentioned here, which spoke, which will help. Consider how difficult it is now to follow, and so it was also in your government, the right of a citizen to digital service, when you, in parallel to all ministries, call up those experts, IT bosses and figure out at what point the data should be displayed in order to be used in the MPSV form. This really cannot be done per resort at the level of the Deputys and one government agent who orbits it. Here there must be a know-how on the part of the state that holds the concept and helps in the matter of architecture, in the matter of solutions on individual departments to migrate these things. Only you here basically read the first round of commentary proceedings when the proposal was sent to the resorts, there were about 150. We worked them all out after about six weeks, all things cleared up. There were six contradictions left at the end, but the proposal for the government was also explained, without contradiction. And the only thing -- and I don't blame Zbyňka Stanjur for the situation -- anything that identifies as an impact on the state budget, the first answer from the Treasury is always: keep an eye on the state budget. The budget is clearly stated in the report. It speaks of 300 million extra personnel costs, but of which 60 or 150 goes to the National Recovery Plan and the rest goes to the expense of the state budget, which I reckon will be about 160 million. Why can't we determine that in a given year? Because if yours were to pay and the hearing shifts to 90 days, or in some way delays the Agency's inception, then of course the recruitment process will not begin at 1. 1. Therefore, we are working with the cash flow budget and we know that it is moving in time, as it will be staffed. I have dealt very much with the question that has been raised here before, regarding IT experts. When I look only at the Ministry of Regional Development, but also at other departments, how many people are external service suppliers, how many are DPP, DPČ, so the grey IT, that these people would not exist, what supply know-how to ministries - of course they exist, unfortunately they are hidden, or hidden - are on consultation contracts, they are purchased via bodyshop, via NAKIP or through some other such entity, so these people supply at the moment - on the contrary in a very unclear structure when you asked me here, I think it was Mr králíček, through Madam President, when he asked: How much is it costing Czech IT? I said, "Hey, yes, it's been eight years - and we've worked together, even though we were in opposition - so it could be between 15 and 17 billion. We cannot even say that, because in the contracts at the moment, the external consultations that the DIA would provide are hidden amounts that simply cannot be said on the part of the state budget: This is IT. About the data boxes - that's a thing we've inherited a little bit. I remember the pirát on the obligation to introduce data boxes for legal entities from 1. 1. 2023 were their 22 votes against, however it goes. The Ministry of the Interior is developing - and already the first things went on in the campaign - we are working with BankID, with all the entities including the Chamber of Commerce in order to get to 1. 1. the launch was successful to be trained and to reduce... including a video or instructional seminar for beekeepers, because they will also be obliged to use the data box, but it is a thing that was simply given. And now that we're talking about delay, it's ready for the Home Office in cooperation with other subjects. It's a strengthening campaign and the systems to make it work. Why did I say that you weren't looking at the last version that went to the government - this may be where the ROB settlement went, so it's in the old version of the law, ROB isn't moving. The Ministry of Interior is planning and preparing the transfer of ROB, ROS, ROIAN registers, it is in the next stage. There is now an analysis of three major basic registers, including a decision on their future with timing, if these gradual movements occur, if they occur. About stage construction - she, for example, the thing NAKITu is not in the law at all. I do not know why this is mentioned in connection with this, because NAKIT is in the matter of government decisions, it is not part of this legislation. The plan, of course, is to move NAKITA, we're talking about its form and the date by which it should happen, but even in this proposal there's a phaser that says: 1. 1. establishment with the Director of gradual recruitment of functions, transfer of agendas. It's a schedule that solves personnel issues, entry cards, payroll. This is all in the material, but I don't think I'm gonna translate this stack as part of the explanatory report. It is a thing that goes through about five resorts and things or institutions that are not affected by this have not been addressed in this, because it is the same service that they currently have from central registers, only it is provided by the Ministry of the Interior. SMEs do not concern information; new obligations to the CNB are not in the law. The ICT sector has been consulted. After all, when I look at the things that were in March and even the President of the ICT Union - actually, as I am now looking at how we have set it up - Zdeněk Zajíček was in those original stages of the project and it is actually almost one to one, as it was consulted by the President of the ICT Union, the comments of the proceedings were also settled by the Confederation of Industry and others. The RIA is standard, maybe above-standard, and if you're missing anything, then I'd be very happy to provide you with that information if that's what the analysis is at this stage. I don't know where any new stamps would come from in the matter of moving existing agendas, it's one to one. The individual roles will be strengthened. For example, the main architect who at the moment approves the project at a stage when it goes from intention or then it goes into realization. However, for example, checking whether we do not deviate from the original award is not overpriced, they will be during the execution of the contract. The risk of inefficiency - I don't see the risk. We estimated the return on the project's relocation during the first and second years, the costs it will bring, therefore, will result in an overall discount. The market will narrow down - I do not think, on the contrary, it will become a stronger contracting entity. I had the opportunity to stand historically before I was elected to the House, as well as to the suppliers of solutions for state administration, and if we were missing something, it was, and it extended the deliveries, and in the final it extended because the consultants simply had to make up a lot of things, so it was just a lack of competence on the part of the contracting authority, a lack of know-how on the part of the state, when the assignment was vague or changed during the process that needed to be implemented. Last thing, I guess. Now I am amused by Blesk, who wrote to me what's true, that between Bartoš and Rakušan you only communicate with each other through letters. So I wrote that it's total bullshit who says that, maybe you're based on the same information. What is true is that, at the beginning of the war in Ukraine, Vít Rakušan got into the wine and in charge of managing the migration crisis together with General Vlček, and we managed the strain, almost 400,000 refugees. And that was probably - I would be surprised if anyone blamed that Vít Rakušan at the time relied on, for example, Deputy Minister Kolařík and was probably not in daily communication with me, however, we deal with every day not only digitalization, coalition, energy matters. So the conclusions that, at the moment of the first proposal, there were contradictions that were settled are wrong. [[10.50 hours]] I have one more thing to say to you, and it's logical. As a politician, even as a boss, you can choose. Either you manage things directly - we could have introduced the law in March. Report it to the people involved and then start the transformation. I think we should have that digital agency right now, and I believe the House would wake it up, have it set up. I've chosen a different procedure. I'm trying to make a procedure where we're working on something, and I hope that even the reservations Mr králíček had about inclusiveness with the opposition - but you're also not making the House's passage completely light, with anything - was lower, I'm happy to fix it. Even in this case, I have tried to work inclusively, thus involving all the people, the relevant deputy directors, the directors involved, at the beginning of the process. Of course, how each office has its responsibilities and deals with a lot of things, so any change at the time of the change means extra work. When you worked something out at one meeting, you weren't there, and at the other meeting it may have seemed problematic again. I think that the result was important, and this was the following: he went to the government with the only contradiction of the Ministry of Finance. Even in that law, there is nothing about setting up a section at the Office of the Government, and even after agreement on the structure where the main architect and his department will be defined, on the basis of that law, no section is defined, on the basis of which the law does not arise and probably do not arise in systemization from 1. One won't be. Otherwise, of course, the section at the Office of the Government may not be established in this way by any law, but that is another matter. So I would very much like to send you the written answers to the questions that you had here, which would make it much easier for us to communicate in the future, and I would like to move forward with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u5	Thank you. I have perceived the rapporteur's application with priority rights. He prefers, but I would just like to point out, because there has been a proposal to extend the time limits to 90 days, so I would like to point out under the Rules of Procedure that an extension of 60 by more than 20 days, or you have suggested by 30, Mr Member, that this is possible only with the agreement of the appellant. Now you've applied, please, you have the floor, you've been given priority. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u6	Thank you. I will therefore adjust my proposal to extend the time limits by 20 days, i.e. to 80 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u7	Copy that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u8	Just for a very short time. I don't want to go into the personal plane at all, clearly. But maybe you're saying that we now have a lack of competence on the procurement side, suppliers don't understand us, we need to communicate. Now, tell me, if you introduce a new agency, will it work out? It solves, um... I don't think it's about the organization, but it's about the people who enter, and it's about the needs that they then lecture, and if a person doesn't know how to do it, it doesn't really matter if he's employed at the MMR or at the Home Office or if he's an employee of the agency. As for my comment on communication, I don't need to draw from the paper. All I had to do was look into how many critical comments the Ministry of the Interior had, and from that I'm assuming that you're not communicating with each other, that's all. That's just my opinion, which I've made out of what I've read in commentary proceedings, nothing else. I don't need newspaper headlines and political articles for that. It's purely technical, it's a fact. The fact that we don't make your job any easier is an interesting point. First of all, present good things here, try to match, we certainly don't need to shoot anything here, that's not what we're here for. We do not want to politicize, we here propose laws that will help citizens of the Czech Republic. Look at the way you're treating us, the way we suggested in April, and you guys were laughing at us, so that's what the experts are bringing to you, and now you're analyzing it, don't be mad at me, but just don't tell me this isn't what we're making it easy for you. So here you carry laws that will benefit Czech citizens, for the Czech state, and we will applaud you here. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u9	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur again if he withdraws the right of priority? And now we return to the general - please, Mrs Marie Pošarová. I will repeat once again that there has been a proposal to extend the deadline to 80 days, which I assume is also annulled by the previous proposal by Mrs Dostálová, who is overcome by this. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u10	Thank you for your word, I'll be more brief than my previous speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that we also reject an unjustified hearing in Section 90, which is why we have given a veto on this position, which makes it impossible to negotiate in committees, but we are also opposed to the amendment as a whole. It makes no sense to establish another office when each resort has the relevant unions. In addition, Mr. Bartoš has a vice prime minister for the digitalisation of facilities at the Office of the Government. Moreover, we are opposed to the fact that there are currently no funds in the debt budget and that there are priorities other than digitalisation and the expansion of state bureaucracy. And we must also remember the important opposite right, and that means the right not to use digitalization, but to normally go to the authorities because many people do not want to act electronically, to have a data box, to have a banking identity. That is why we are making a proposal for a recast and we are also asking for an extension of the possibility of committee discussions to 80 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u11	Thank you, so you are joining Mrs Klára Dostálová's proposal for a return to work. I'll mark it. The rapporteur has come forward with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u12	Madam President, colleagues, I would first of all - I am sorry for my ignorance - have asked you if Klára Dostálová 60 and Mr Novák 80 were proposed, Mrs Pošarová, if both proposals were not voted by chance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u13	I can answer immediately, 60 is the standard time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u14	Sorry, there was - I would clarify the proposal to Mrs Dostálová - there was 60, which is standard time, but she wanted to extend the deadline to 90, which is with the agreement, now she's 80, so I'll actually suggest 10 to be 70, so we can vote twice. Thank you. Thanks for the explanation. I would only react briefly or sum up actually the attitude and the information that was said here. I would like to emphasise, in particular, that we do not block the emergence of the Digital Agency. As I read in the media and on Twitter, we only put the veto in the '90s because I think, and it has fallen several times, we simply blame the fact that the creation or the draft of this law was not discussed even on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. This amendment to the establishment of the Digital Agency came to the House, or the Organising Committee was discussed, 25. 8. and 6. She's already been to the House plenary. It's a fairly broad material, as we might have noticed, and I really believe, and I think it's constructive criticism that if this discussion were before, we might have been moved a few steps forward. As mentioned here, I personally think that the idea is really good, and I also agree with what the Minister said that for me it would also be necessary to revise two state enterprises, whether we really need two, or whether there could be one in a different form. But I think it's a matter of discussion. After all, I admit that I do not have an exact view of this, but I think it is good for us to talk about it in the future, about the two state-owned enterprises and what competence they will have in relation to the newly established Digital Agency. I think it could be done differently at first. I agree that individual agendas and competences should be centralized, but now the question is whether we should now create a new agency or do it somewhere on the existing platform, but this is a matter of discussion and perhaps a matter of different perspectives. That's why we blamed the speed with which it was brought to the House and discussed. That's, I'd say constructive criticism. [[11.00 hours]] I think, and this government has decided to expand the number of ministers - I am sorry, and now I am saying this correctly, and I am expressing that I believe that if this agency were created and Mr Bartoš was only a vice prime minister for digitalisation, I think it would also be better, because he would have more time to do this because I think that the MMR agenda is very difficult for him, and I personally think that it is a shame. I may be reprimanded by the President, but I think that Mr Bartoš is simply a person who understands digitalisation within the coalition and should devote 100% to it. That is why I think that if the government came up with the idea of extending the number of ministers, and only the Vice Prime Minister for digitalisation would be created there, I think I would be quite pleased and I could vote in favour of the establishment of the DIA. I think that they are not settled here, as mentioned, by the competence of the competence law, including state-owned enterprises and public procurement. I think it is these two areas that deserve some discussion. By proposing a reduction in the time limits to 30 days, as you have proposed, I think you are making it impossible for us to prepare quality amendments so that we can discuss this at all. I understand that this is your priority, but we just see things differently, and I think we should talk about it. I don't want to repeat the finances here. It is a matter of discussion, it is a matter of looking at the matter, whether the more than 300 million that will be spent on DIA and RVIS, if we could not invest differently in the current structure of these organisations. Again, it's a matter of maybe conceptual perspective. Finally, I really have a real concern that we will have a problem naming the 120 new people that the Digital Agency needs, precisely because of the lack of market capacity at all. So I would just like to, because Mrs Dostálová is not here, so I think it would probably be right under the Rules of Procedure that I would also like to adopt the proposal for a re-evaluation. As I mentioned earlier, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline to 70 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u15	Thank you. I've got it logged in. I can see the minister reporting, but I'm just gonna load up some apologies. Vice-President Věra Kovářová apologizes from 10:30 to 13:00 for family reasons and Mr Julius Špičák from 11:00 without giving any reason. Minister, you may take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u16	I just want to respond to about two things, very briefly. In fact, within the competence centers or delivery unit, what we as ministers of the new government now often have will be fulfilled. We have contracts before us, which were designed during the last parliamentary term, where the know-how that was there was needed at the level of consultants. On the contrary, also for the MMR as the first thing I used in the case of digitalisation of the building process, so I asked the Ministry of the Interior, I asked the NÚKIB if I could get a loan for consulting architects who would help evaluate the solution as proposed. Of course, we want to transfer this know-how to individual resorts in the future, but we also assume the emergence of so-called delivery units, a group of experts who can help the MPSV with a solution to some more complex agenda through several ministries, when they make some application form, here in the matter of getting rid of vendor lock-in at the resort of another. That is absolutely essential. When we look at the structure that was in the previous year, even before the government took over, when Vlado Dzurilla was a government agent, he had an attaché, which was a contact person from the Ministry, who was the contact point for, say, things that came from RVIS, who may have dealt with the citizens' right to digital service there. This, of course, is an inadequate structure. The DIA should provide know-how in one of its parts and, if necessary, increase this know-how on the part of the contracting authority, because it will still be individual resorts in its agenda systems, with its website - let me make this clear - which, of course, develops IT, which is resolute, which is not superior. For funding, I will repeat once again: part of the costs or in wage quotation is planned - and it is possible - already happening - on the part of the National Recovery Plan, thus the actual demands on the state budget in 2023 are estimated at CZK 160 million. This is so that I don't overheat it, a little more expensive than consulting on the introduction of a new tax package into the Ministry of Finance system. As far as I can remember, every time a tax package came in, I had to update the system. I think - if I'm not mistaken, but we can see - that it was tens of millions higher than what it cost to implement tax changes if there was some crucial tax package in that year. This is the cost of one change in one system. So double that is the personnel cost of the entire agency, which, on the contrary, with such things, whether the analysis is necessary, whether the changes in the system are really so costly, should help. Otherwise, I would like to thank all three speakers today. I hope that it is - and I have promised that I can also send written answers to some of the things that have been said, because they may have tied up with the material before settling the comments, which lasted six weeks, we discussed them with the resorts. I would just like to remind you that anything over 20 days of increase, of course, as a plaintiff, I cannot agree with that. That is why we should not vote on such matters. On the contrary, I will remind you that I have already proposed a reduction to 30 days in the previous debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u17	Thank you, yes, this proposal is also marked. I'm looking to see if anyone else wants to get off? I no longer see any interested parties speaking in the general debate, or I am ending the general debate. I ask if there's any interest in the final words? [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: Yes.]] The rapporteur has, the Minister does not. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u18	Hello, I'm just following the agreement with the Minister to summarize that we have recorded the veto of Section 90. It was subsequently proposed by the Minister to shorten the time limits by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Then we noted the proposal for a re-evaluation. Then two extensions - an extension of 20 days to 80 days and an extension of 10 days to 70 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u19	Thank you, too. We will therefore now vote on the proposal to return to work, which Mrs Dostálová made, adopted by Mr králíček, and Mrs Pošarová joined him. I'm going to have to call the MPs and the MPs. Yes, I'm checking everyone out. Please log in with your ID cards again. I will repeat that everyone knows what will be voted on: we will vote on the proposal that has fallen, namely the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I have begun the vote on this motion for a return to work. Who's in? Who opposes this proposal for a return to work? In the 49 vote, 139 Members and Members were enrolled, for 67, against 69. This proposal was therefore rejected and the recovery was not granted. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I do not see any proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. I ask, who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee? I've started the vote. Who's in favour of this guarantee committee proposal? Who's against it? The number 50 vote was 142 votes, for 139, versus 0. We have ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. [[11.10 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'm asking, does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee? And that is so, the rapporteur is reporting. Please. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u20	I would also like to propose a constitutionally-legal committee as another committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u21	Thank you. I don't see another suggestion. So if no one really has a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss, I am opening a vote on the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. Who is for the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee? Who's against it? In voting number 51, 142 Members were enrolled, for 140, against zero, so we ordered this proposal to be discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee as another committee. And now we are approaching proposals on deadlines. And the point is now to agree on the way in which the vote is being voted, because there have been three proposals. Does anyone object to the vote in the order in which the proposals fell? Which was Mr Bartoš's proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days and then Mr Novák's proposal. Yes, I see the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u22	I would put the counter-proposal to vote in the opposite direction, Madam President, if we could not from the top, the 80, the 70 and then the 30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-006-033.u23	Thank you, and if there is no objection, we would proceed to the vote in this order proposed in the counter-proposal, namely as the first proposal to extend the deadline to 80 days, then to 70, and if it does not pass, the reduction to 30. So I'm going to vote on an extension of 80 days. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote 52, 143 Members and Members, for 67, against 50. This motion was rejected. Another proposal, namely extension of deadlines to 70 days. I've started the vote. Who's up for a 70-day extension? Who's against it? The number 53 vote was 144 votes, for 67, against 50. This proposal was also rejected. And the last proposal to shorten the time limits by 30 days, or to 30 days. I've started the vote. Who's in favor of cutting to 30 days? Who's against it? In voting number 54, 144 Members voted in favour of 76, against 62. A reduction in time limits of 30 days to 30 days was adopted. And I hereby thank the Minister and the rapporteur. We have dealt with all the voting proposals, and I am now ending this point. And we will proceed to the next item according to the approved agenda. He's a point number.
