ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u1	27. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended and some other laws /house print 3/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 3/1. I ask that the proposal put forward as an applicant by Mrs Lucie Šafránková. I see here signing up for Mr Berkovec's factual remark, but we are not in the debate, so I will delete you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, as representatives of the plaintiffs, as members of the SPD movement, as well as Mrs Jana Pastuchová and Mr Marek Novák of the ANO movement, to familiarise you with our proposal to amend the Act on Assistance in Material Need, the Act on State Social Support and the Act on the Living and existential Minimum, for which it has already been discussed for the first time in the last parliamentary term, when it was discussed here and it has come to the third reading, has been given an informal indication of the proposal to end the abuse of social benefits inappropriate. It is undeniable that the current legislative setting of social benefits and the functioning of this system in practice makes it possible, in many respects, for the purpose of the behaviour and conduct of their beneficiaries and applicants for them. Behaviour and conduct that is at the edge of the law or even beyond it, conduct and conduct that results in these benefits being paid often entirely outside their legal purpose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u3	Madam, I am sorry, but I would like to ask my fellow Members to keep their voice down in order to give you a decent enough environment to make a proposal. Please really relax especially in the right side of the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u4	Thank you. There is agreement between the professional public and the labour offices that administer these benefits, as well as the social unions of local public authorities, which we have dealt with in the preparation of this proposal. This is confirmed by the results of the checks carried out by these authorities. For example, in 2019, the Labour Office stated that, based on the extensive control of persons in its register of social benefits who claimed that they could not fulfil the obligations of a jobseeker due to sickness or accident, around 30% of them violated the relevant measures or cheated openly. These benefits are therefore abused in many cases, both as a result of the fraudulent conduct of applicants for them and also as a result of many gaps in the relevant laws. It is therefore necessary to make changes in these laws, especially in the law on aid in material distress, which will put an end to this practice or at least minimise it. Changes that would also enable employees of employment offices to check more effectively the eligibility of social benefits. Changes that would at the same time lead to significant savings in public funds. Similarly, it is necessary to make substantial changes in the Act on State Social Support, in particular as regards the rules for drawing up the housing allowance, as well as in the Act on the Life and existential Minimum, which defines what types of income are taken into account in the assessment of applications for the relevant social benefits. The main objectives of our proposal are to increase the address and right of payment of relevant social benefits, minimise the amount of unduly paid social benefits, limit the range of beneficiaries of these benefits only to persons who are temporarily in material distress and are actively seeking to get out of this situation by themselves, or to persons who objectively cannot have income from their own work, which are primarily our senior citizens and disabled fellow citizens. The aim of the proposal is also to bring rules, order and justice into the system of non-insurable social benefits and to limit to the very minimum the possibility of its abuse, which is, in particular, the misuse of public funds, of taxpayers' money. Madam President, I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u5	Yes. I will ask my colleague and colleagues for real - especially the right part of the spectrum, please move your discussions into the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u6	Thank you. In addition, it is also an attempt to end the immoral practice of so-called trade in poverty and to combat the spread of existing and new so-called excluded localities, which are a disgrace to our state and basically a disgrace to all of us who have the competence to influence the form of our social system, and, last but not least, through establishing the opportunity to receive certain social benefits for families in compulsory preschool and school education, to give children growing up in these localities and in this environment in general, at least a potential chance for education and future full-fledged life. About the excluded locations. The management of the town of Bílina in Teplice recently sent an open letter to the Czech government and legislators, pointing out the long and gradual migration of troubled residents from other places in the Republic which make life difficult for other inhabitants of the city. "The situation with inadaptable citizens in our city is no longer unbearable," says the city's management. "The situation in socially excluded localities in our city, which are slowly increasing, is long-term unhappy. That is why we call on the government and the legislator to start dealing with this situation as quickly as possible," Mayor Bílina said. [[19.20 hours]] Due to the tense situation in excluded localities, a petition was made in Bíla last summer for the appeal of the city management. Its authors complained that the town hall refused to deal with problems with inadaptable citizens and that the security situation in the city was getting worse all the time. The locals mentioned a huge mess about it, loud music, destruction of foreign property or, for example, selling drugs in broad daylight directly from windows. According to the mayor, however, the city does not have enough powers to solve the problems: "We refuse to bear solely responsibility for something that we cannot influence by legal instruments. Our options are very limited and very hard to enforce. It is very difficult to explain to people that municipalities have almost no competence in the hands of such complex situations," the mayor notes. According to her, the authorities of the city or state do not have the powers to adequately intervene and defend the population. The town leadership therefore decided to address the legislator by letter and by forwarding the petition. "We believe that the responsibility for the situation is mainly those who create the rules for social benefits and also the legislative space for so-called trade in poverty. They are also those who can influence and change the wrong rules," the mayor added. Please keep that in mind. By our proposed legislation of the relevant three laws, they have absolutely no negative effects on the state budget in terms of increasing public expenditure or reducing public revenue, on the contrary, their adoption would reduce public expenditure in the order of approximately CZK half to one billion per year. The proposed changes can also be, and will be, an inevitable incentive for many people to find employment and earn their own income, in particular, by their own work, which will also lead to an increase in the state's revenue from the relevant taxes and compulsory insurance contributions. Another positive effect of our proposal is the attempt not to create practically lasting dependence on them and the loss of work habits through the social welfare system in certain people, which in its consequences only leads to the deepening of social exclusion of social welfare recipients, which hinders their social integration. It is not infinitely possible to tolerate a situation where many people receive social benefits unjustly and involuntaryly sponsored by citizens avoiding work and circumventing laws from honest-working taxpayers' money. In short, social benefits must serve mainly as transitional financial assistance to citizens in short-term existential distress, to citizens and families with low labour incomes and to citizens who can no longer work for objective reasons, such as our seniors and disabled fellow citizens, not as a ban on those who have avoided work all their lives, or as a source of income for so-called poverty traders or for some non-profit organisations linked to public money in the social field. I have worked on this proposal with some of my colleagues for almost three years and it contains more than 70 concrete measures that will clearly clarify and improve the situation in the field of non-insurable social benefits. This proposal would therefore, for the first time in our modern history, bring order and firm rules into the system of payment of housing benefits, contributions and housing supplements, where it sets clear conditions defining the minimum hygiene and technical standards of flats to which these benefits can be paid and drawn. This means functional doors and windows, at least one living room meeting the requirements of the construction law, operational toilet and bathroom, space reserved for preparing food, connection of the apartment to drinking water or unlimited access to the source of drinking water, provision of outdoor air ventilation, heating of the apartment in accordance with standard values and the possibility of regulation of internal temperature. At the same time, the apartment to which benefits are drawn must not have any problems threatening the lives and health of persons, which all the current Czech governments have grossly neglected, and this has also led to hundreds of millions of CZK of public money being paid irreconcilably annually to property owners in a catastrophic state, which in no way can be called apartments. As far as specific changes are concerned, I will give examples. This is a condition for the payment of social benefits to preschool children's parents due to attend these children to the final year of kindergarten, which is important from the point of view of their socialization. Furthermore, it is a reduction in the minimum amount of living for households receiving social benefits in cases where one of their adult working members does not have any income from work or business. Furthermore, it is the introduction of an obligation to demonstrate the inability to fulfil obligations, for example, to attend job interviews, to participate in retraining or community service, and so on, in the case of a person in the register of the employment office due to sickness or accident, including the possibility of checks and penalties. That is, the introduction of an equivalent of the so-called incompetent, like the employees. Furthermore, it is a strengthening of the competences of employees in the field of real estate control for which social housing benefits are paid. Furthermore, in the event of a breach of the law, the possibility to withdraw the benefit immediately at the level of the district branch of the employment office, for example, if the beneficiary refuses to accept authorised persons, controllers from the employment office, entry into the apartment in order to carry out an official on-the-spot check, for example in terms of how many persons live in the apartment, whether the actual condition corresponds to the data in the claim and the like. It is also an extension of the maximum withdrawal period from the current three months to six months. Working people must not be discriminated against forever. It must also be made clear once again that this proposal will not endanger any decent and honest person who is clearly in need of social assistance from the state, on the contrary, many of these people will either help directly, for example, in the case of low-income seniors who make access to financial social assistance easier, or in the case of working students from low-income families who are raised by social support, or indirectly by leaving more funds for financial assistance for these groups of citizens to be taken away from the impostors who do not have the right to receive social benefits. I would also like to thank all my colleagues who worked with me on this proposal, including from competing political actors. For example, Mr Marek Novák, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, was also Mr Jan Bauer during the last parliamentary term. I also thank representatives from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs who cooperated on this proposal during the last parliamentary term. First of all, I also thank the real experts and practices of the Labour Office, the social care unions in the various regions. I'm sure they know who I'm talking about, and I thank them very much for that. Our proposal is in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, respects the general principles of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and is not even contrary to the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. Thus, the proposed legislation is not contrary to European Union legislation or to the case law of the judicial authorities of the European Union and to the general principles of European Union law. The proposed legislation complies with all relevant international treaties binding on the Czech Republic. The proposal will have no negative effects on national minorities, because it fully respects the constitutional requirement for equality of citizens on the basis of their nationality. Colleagues and colleagues, in the name of all decent and working citizens, in the name of all the honest employees of the Labour Office, the state administration and the self-government who, in a difficult position, defend the interests of the state and the public, I ask you to support this proposal and to release it for further reading, so that we may have further discussions, for example, on the social committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u7	Thank you for presenting the press, and I ask you to take your place at the rapporteur's and petitioner's desk. Now, I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a brief report on the amendment of the Act on Assistance in Material Need. The petitioner has already made a very broad comment here, so I will brief my news report. The proposal for an amendment to the Physical Need Assistance Act concerns more effective control in the area of possible abuse of benefits of aid in material distress, which would at the same time lead to a significant saving of public funds. As has already been mentioned, the main objectives of the amendment are to increase the address and right of payment of the social benefits concerned, minimise unduly paid social benefits, limit the range of beneficiaries of these benefits only to persons who are temporarily in material distress and seek to get out of this situation actively, or to persons who objectively cannot have their own income from work, seniors and disabled persons. Other aims of the bill are to bring order, rules, order and justice into the system of non-insurable social benefits, to limit to a minimum its abuse or to try to end the immoral practice of the so-called trade in poverty and to combat the spread of existing and new so-called excluded localities. So much for my news report, and then I'll sign up for myself in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. And I am now opening up a general debate to which Mrs Jana Pastuchová has signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I'm applying to this bill as a co-president, and I'm going to introduce a little bit, or I'm going to return you a little bit to history for those who haven't been sitting here in the last term. We have really honestly worked together with colleagues of the opposition, but also some of our colleagues of the current coalition for a very long time, and I will tell you why. Even though we were a YES movement in a coalition with social democracy, former Minister Maláčová assured us that the law on material distress and tightening the benefits would be passed. We have all warned the Social Committee that if it does not do so, we will start, although, of course, government laws have priority, but if nothing does, we will start submitting these proposals ourselves by a parliamentary initiative or by parliamentary proposals. It really didn't. The Minister did not provide us with any law - who was here, he knows - so we started to implement this law on aid in material distress, and we started preparing it ourselves across the political spectrum. I myself achieved in the past periods that there was a tightening up of the fact that some benefits and part of them are now paid in vouchers, that was one thing. I got a lot of negative e-mails, text messages for it, but now it's running, and I don't think it's a problem. That is why I am glad that this proposal for assistance in material distress is being presented again, because it really has been discussed, as the rapporteur said, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and a lot of things have been softened there. Madam, isn't that right? It did, because it wasn't in accordance with any laws. So I think this proposal that I'd really like to ask you not to kill him right now at first reading and let him go to second reading. Let us put amendments to this and finally let it go, because even if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs may present to us, as Minister Jurečka, through your means, has promised, because there are also reduced benefits that he will try - I believe that I am glad, but here we have something that we have worked really many hours on with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and I say: It is not an opposition law now our Members, but it has worked with us on this as well as the current Coalition MEPs. I would just have one thing from last week's employment office, and it's like the subject of another possible improvement about bureaucracy and the reduction of the work of employees of the employment office, because they have a lot of it now - I think we've been rushing them really, really hard in the past period because of covido - so actually one thing that's really stopped me there is that the recipients of benefits who don't get an account - because we know why, because they're under execution - so they have to pay these benefits with a bill. Each of these bills costs approximately CZK 17 to 20, which is true of our state, namely the Office of Labour. And the bill isn't one, because our system doesn't know how to share benefits for one birth number, which means there's one bill for each dose. This means that the mobility allowance, 550 kroner I suspect it is, it is one bill, then there is another bill and it is, I asked, I don't know, I'm sure I'll get statistics from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, how many clients are using it to send them these mail bills, how much will our state spend on it. The Czech Social Security Administration pays pensions with a bill, and not on account, this takes the client out of his pension, about CZK 17 or 20, but that is one pension, one bill. The benefits of material distress are paid in several bills. So let's do some collection instead of a birth number that gives us payouts by one, so it's going to be one bill, it's going to be a savings, or let's think about the fact that if someone doesn't want to set up an account for any reason, then why can't we do it in such a way that the 20 crowns are going to be cut off from the payment of material distress as well. That's one thing. And the second thing to do with it is that many of these clients have no mailboxes on their homes, and therefore a mail carrier or delivery girl has nowhere else to throw the bill. And if they throw it in, they might not even take it or the mailbox is broken. And then it turns out that the post office or the client is calling the employee's office, and he wants to know the number of the bill so that the mail pays him the benefit. So we're going to do another job with the person who has the bill, loses it, doesn't have the mailbox or there's five boxes of the same name, so the delivery girl throws it somewhere else, so then they call the employment offices, they ask and they delay our officials at the employment offices again to say the number of bills and benefits, because if they don't know, the mail won't pay them back. So I'd put in too much of a good word for trying to do that, too. I know it's not easy, the IT system, we know that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is really complicated, we've been dealing with this for a really long time, but this is one of the things that our state budget can save on not sending four bills, but if we already, exceptionally, have one bill. And to officials who are really busy right now, and they're going to have jobs at the offices, we all know that -- there was a wave of covid, and now the wave is going to be refugee. So let's also think about it, Minister, I beg you to think about it so that we can unite the IT system so that we have some sort of collection place for one birth number under one paycheck, and not go to the post office with four bills or call the Labor Office for four numbers of different bills, thereby blocking the work of our officials. It's a real initiative from the Labor Office, which I'm presenting to you. [[19.40 hours]] So I'm begging you, since the proposal was launched until the third reading by the last Chamber of Deputies, so that you can let it go again for second reading, with extended time, but let it go to second reading so that we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u11	Thank you, too, Madame. And now I have Mrs Renata Oulehlová with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u12	So good day, dear colleagues, I would also very much like to ask you to let this bill into second reading. I myself am the mayor of the town of Sokolov, which I would say is already up under the fact that we have socially excluded localities. The working people are really suffering, the value of their property is decreasing. We really do, every day people come to our office who are desperate to help. And just like the plaintiff said, she's turning to the city, and she's so surprised that there's nothing we can do about it. We have really empty hands, there really is abuse of doses by people who -- we have three generations that don't work. We have kids who go straight to the employment office records from primary school. We have poor traders who are taking advantage of this system. Please, let's start protecting people who work, raise children, send them to school, pay taxes, and stop protecting people who have a few fines for disturbing the order, but they're just mocking us in the face because they know we can't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u13	Thank you, too, Madame. And I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? Yes, Mrs Golasowská, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u14	Thank you for the floor. This time I'm acting not as rapporteur, but as myself. So I've listened to the debate on the bill, and I have to say, I agree on a lot of things. You're right, but it won't allow me not to say that this proposal has its pitfalls, however Godly its purpose is. That's what I'd name some of them. That housing would be a condition for a material emergency. We know that not all apartments would meet the conditions under the draft law, although there is a deadline for the impact of non-compliance with housing standards in batch aid to 1. 7. 2025. I think that proposals should go hand in hand with the proposal for a law on affordable or social housing that we do not yet have, and I do not think it is appropriate to approve the law on material distress first and then to address available housing. An even better option would be to solve the law on social housing and then the law on material distress, or both laws hand in hand. Furthermore, the investigation is to be carried out, for example, by authorities in material distress, public health authority, construction office, OSPOD. And here is the question of enough people to investigate, because we know that the authorities are already overwhelmed by tasks that are barely prosecuting. This proposed system of controls would only impose a greater burden on those institutions, and I am not sure that this would work. I think that this proposal is not a proposal to address the problem of excluded localities, because the problem is much wider. Finally, I must mention that there is also a proposal for a law on material distress in the Government's legislative plan, which is why I am filing a motion to reject this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u15	I also thank you, Madame, and I therefore note your proposal to reject this proposal. Mrs Olga Richterová will now be speaking in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because we have discussed this in detail in the past period. I would just like to sum up a few sentences that unfortunately the objectives that the appellant has given are not true. I would like to stress that they cannot be achieved by the proposal as presented. We all wish that we could solve social exclusion and other related problems, but unfortunately what this standard would achieve is quite different, and I will just briefly sum it up. Already today, the system of material distress is set very precisely in such a way that it is available only for people who are actively trying to get out of the difficult situation and for those who cannot work actively. I want to say that there is a legal definition of how it is now in material distress, and this proposal does not, of course, change that, which is why we all agree with it. While it has been said here, while it has not been here, that today, when someone is looking for work and refusing, he is, of course, excluded from the employment office's records for six months, he pays for his own health insurance for six months. Of course, there are some 60,000 households in material distress, while in the gray economy it is estimated that around 670 000 people are working black. I'm just quoting estimates to compare the dimension of the problem. So what's the problem? Not that there is little investigation into the place of residence carried out by the Labour Office. In 2019, 178,000 of them were carried out, with about three times a single household survey for the 60,000 households. In some households, they spin, like, two and a half times. But we have a problem with the fact that we are practically not using some of the options that the employment authorities have. Let me give you an example that, in short, the rules that are already in place today need not be applied, that within the region workers from another branch would go to some investigations at the moment when the particular worker tip them that she does not want to go there, so that she does not have to deal with those clients personally when she lives in the same city. I'm giving a practical example of those impulses that I'm also getting out of the field. So when I sum up, I'm here with the fact that a number of people who vote for us, different parties, want our society to be coherent and work well. Unfortunately, the law will not contribute to the operation, which will make the residential hotels more business. And that's what we need to say, first of all, because the glitches that are described there aren't described for the hostels. There's purely a specification of what would make it difficult for you to stay in apartments. Secondly, the proposal would lead to further displacement of people, such as mental illness, more into institutions. And thirdly, it's a law that could really rob people of their housing purely because of the mold on the wall. It is really important to realize that it has such imperfections as that when it says "clean" that adequate ventilation of the living rooms must be ensured, then those officials at the employment office would have to judge what is sufficient ventilation. I would like to add this to the rapporteur's words to the motion for rejection. I want to stress that already today the system of material distress is legislatively set up for those who are trying to do what we can here in terms of paper. It doesn't always work ideally in practice, which is why I've given the specific examples that can be done in practice, and I believe these things will shift. But at the same time, I also said that the 178,000 were being investigated at the place of residence. The number when the non-necessity of the benefit was stated, or that it should not have been paid in the amount paid, was 1.3 percent of the time, or slightly more than one percent of the time. So there are checks going on. The problems noted by the Labour Office are 1,3% of the cases. And actually today, when someone is looking for a job and rejecting it, it means a clear penalty for six months off the record. These are the things I wanted to remind you of, and to say that the real solution to social exclusion and the problems surrounding socially excluded localities are the long-term hard work that the rapporteur mentioned, for example, whether patient social work, the coherence of action in municipalities with housing and, of course, the massive support of schools in these localities. [[19.50 hours]] To conclude: I am aware of the problems in these locations, I am not reducing them, but unfortunately this law is not a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u17	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. And now I have three factual points registered here. I'll ask Mrs Jana Pastuchová. You have the floor, Madame, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I was afraid that Mrs, through you, Richterová will not speak because we know her speeches from the last parliamentary term. And remember, Members of the ODS, the law three times and enough. We've all raised our hands for him, the only pirát haven't raised their hands for him, because they can make mischief in these villages, they can all make them. But you can read the interpretation of the Member, so the pirát have always been against cancellation because no one has to go to school, so we'll give him the benefits and it's all fine. I would like to say about the inquiry, Madame. I don't know who you're talking to, and I went to the employment office, and I sat there, and I watched who was coming for the benefits. These are people who don't learn to work for four periods of their family, but they learn what kind of dose comes from that state again and how best to get it. It's about energy now, too. I talked to the employment authorities about it. Now people who know how it is at the Labor Office are going to come for energy. They know the documents. But the middle class that should be dealing with this is gonna blow it, 'cause it's too much red tape. It's really just these guys. We have $3 billion, but ask how much money has been paid. So I really don't blame the attitude of the pirát. We raised our hand for the ODS proposal three times and enough. Everyone here was sorry that the pay-free zone was lifted, and now that we're proposing some kind of tightening of benefits in material distress, the people who sat here in the coalition last time and worked with us on it, now they're gonna raise their hand and kill it at first reading? Then do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u19	Thank you, Madame. And now, with Mrs Lucie Šafránková, in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I dare to respond to some of the impulses that my previous speakers have said here. For one thing, I've said the standards of the apartment that it's supposed to contain - it's a functional door, it's one living room and so on. These are really simple parameters, but not these things, where our children grow up - our future. Only the next generation of people who will be on welfare will grow out of this, because unfortunately, that is the case, and that is what teachers agree on, not only from excluded localities. As far as the removal from the employment office is concerned, that is what Vice-President Richterová said. Yes, there may be exclusion from the employment office for not complying with certain obligations, but this does not mean that the person does not remain in the system of benefits of material distress and continues to receive social benefits. As far as standards for hostels are concerned, we have already discussed this with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the last parliamentary term and we have been clearly told that the standards for hostels are long ago and are functional. But what's missing is the standards for the apartment that I said here, and they were very simple. There's nothing complicated about it, and I don't think any of us really want the next generation to grow up in this - our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u21	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Radek Koten will now take the stand and be prepared by Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I would very much like to respond to the previous speaker, Mrs. Vice-President Richterová. Those of you who were here in the past period certainly know that the Pirate Party here killed the law several times because it was several times in the third reading, but it was never possible to negotiate because there was no political will, especially from the Pirates, because the pirát probably like to mess and will be very happy to give more and more money for these payouts. If we look at history and look at some statistics, we find that every 13 years this amount will double. I think it's necessary for the children of these families to have a chance, have a chance in a lifetime to go to school, learn something or get some education in high school or college, but that's actually what we're deliberately blocking here. So the pirát are basically in favour of the children of these families not having a chance, because in other ways, we can't motivate those families to send them to school. That's what I think is important for it to be said here. So, please, don't block this place again and let it go to the next reading. The citizens are looking at you. Also the option, the four MPs, that's exactly the result.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Olga Richterová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u24	Only two factual corrections by the appellant. Of course, whoever is excluded from the unemployment register for six months, because even once he refused the job offered, and he must not refuse part-time work, I merely state, so of course, if he is a person in material distress, he will lose the status of a person in material distress for three months at the same time. So that is a factual correction of what has been said. And so are the sanctions. For those who don't send children to school, we already have six. This law, as far as I know, does not actually add anything new to them, because it proposes the same sanction, which is already elsewhere. But for what it's worth, we've already got six sanctions for not sending kids to school. And the last thing we don't dispute at all is that help in material distress is only for the needy, for those who are looking for work, so I refer once again to how the status goes away, the support at a time when a person, albeit part-time, rejects anything, but I want to stress that unfortunately this really helps rather poverty traders, it doesn't fall primarily on those hostels and it will rather keep people in the grey economy. It won't work the way you say it will. Thank you for listening to this point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u25	I also thank and see other factual points: Mrs Barbora Urbanová, Mrs Jana Pastuchová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u26	I'll be very brief. I'm just going to sign up for STAN's position on Mrs Richterová's position. I mean, I'm very sensitive to the fact that we're wondering who has what option, whether they're four MPs or 33. I'd add it up, it's 37, Mr. Colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u27	Thank you, Madame. And now, with the de facto Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u28	Me, too, briefly, through yours, to the mayors. How many mayors are sitting here? You don't have any problems with these villages? I'm not talking about the politics you've been discussing, how many of you are, I don't care. But the mayors who sit here didn't like the fact that the payoff zones were lifted, we all raised our hand outside the pirát for three times and enough, so you don't want us to make it a little harder on the terms for paying the benefits? And regarding the inquiries, Vice-President Richterová, through you, go to the employment office and ask how many of her clients she had to check on five years ago, when she was paying them off, she knew everyone she lived, where she lived, if she was working black. And he's got 200 today, so he doesn't even have a chance to go to the controls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u29	Thank you, Madame. President Jakub Michálek has now signed up with the facts. Before I give him my word, I will read an apology: from 19.30 to the end of the day, Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes for working reasons. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u30	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, just a very short response, through you, to Mr Koten. 840 000 people voted for our coalition, the Pirates and Mayors coalition. That's way more than the SPD. You SPD guys lied about being a covido dictatorship. You lied here that the Czech Republic is wreaking havoc on Ukraine. Well, that's a total betrayal on the citizens. And now you're lying about messing up the villages? Well, don't be mad at me, but I don't know who believes your fantasy anymore. Really, it's not, it's just an attempt to populistly parasite hatred of people. Let's deal with the problems, yes, the problems are here, sit down with the minister, I'm sure he'll be happy to talk to you about it, and let's prepare something that has a head and a heel together. But, as has been said here, this proposal will not contribute to any solution, which is why we will reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u31	Thank you, too, Mr President. Mr Marek Novák has now made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Urbanová, Koten and Mrs Eva Fialová will then be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u32	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, I am only very briefly to Mrs Golasowská, through Madam President. It housing and the term 2025, respectively housing standards and your reminder that we need a law on housing and the like. We have clearly defined conditions in this law, or draft law, where we say what the standards of flats are. I don't think it's anything that contradicts a decent living. It's the wrong place to live today. Take, you'll live without windows with children, you'll live without heating with children, you'll live without water with children? There's a lot of stuff going into houses like this, and we don't want that. And I don't think you want it either. That is why efficiency is postponed in this case, so that there is time to move on, and we can then also discuss that efficiency being postponed even further, because we realize that there is some time to discuss the law. The authorities say they're gonna be flooded with control? Well, I don't know, we heard the number, how many of these checks were, we even heard that 1.3 percent of them found faults. Well, good, 'cause they don't have a tool in their hand to prove any more of the glitches. That it doesn't address excluded locations, we don't deal with maybe excluded locations, but we don't even deal with the gray economy? These people make money selling drugs, you know? They don't earn money by going to the shovel to work black, that's just not how it works and that's not how it works. And that the government will prepare a new bill? He'll probably be ready, but I've read... that by July, but that's no reason to... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[Your time is up.]] ... so that we can now... [[He's turning to the chair.]] Can you let me finish the sentence?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u33	No, I can't, because it's been two minutes. [[I'll sign up again.]] You can sign up for another factual one, and then I'll be happy to let you talk. And now, with a point of fact, Mrs Barbora Urbanová has come forward and will be prepared by Mr Radek Koten. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u34	I'm really just being real. I don't want to argue here, the opinions were made, but the starosta and independents didn't support "three times and enough." It wasn't just the pirát, we didn't support it together, so let's make this place go the way it really was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u35	Thank you, Madame. Now, with Mr Radek Koten in fact and Mrs Eva Fialová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would very much like to respond, by your means, to Mr Michálek. Yes, these problems here are long-term, they've been dealing with several governments, they've been dealing with it for over 20 years, maybe even longer. This is also being dealt with by non-profit organisations, but apparently these nonprofit organizations that are connected to the money lines give you the background. That's quite obvious. So you're basically gonna keep it from tearing up the body and until the money runs out for those nonprofit organizations. I don't think there really is a solution to leave it in this state and just to deepen the problem, because I think everyone really has the right to live a decent life, and most importantly, they have to get a chance for it, because if we're going to raise more and more generations here that aren't going to have a chance to apply themselves in life and they're going to depend only on social benefits, that's exactly what your approach is. But it is not really the point of view of ordinary citizens who live in those excluded localities or who live there for a long time and those excluded localities have become that. And that's because you basically assign apartments to people on welfare benefits who abuse the system and don't send kids to school. Then the really excluded localities become common neighborhoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u37	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with Mrs Eva Fialová, the de facto, and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u38	Thank you for the floor. I am then signed up for a general debate on some of the things that have been said here, but I was really raised from my chair by Mr Michálek's statement, and I would like to speak to him by your means. He was talking about the distribution of society and hate, so I'll give him one example, and you should then, as a PirSTAN coalition, reach into your own ranks and see who will run for you both in regional elections and municipal elections. In our country, there is one case where the mayor of one movement, I may even personally like it quite much, but it caused real hatred, where the ANO movement promotes social housing and the project of building social housing. And for you, this person encourages petitions, hatred, upheaval, blunt counteractions, where he doesn't know the definition of what social housing is. So make order first in your own ranks, as those who perceive it, as mayors approach it, and do not put ethnic problems between individual people. And I really can't be accused here that I'm not a proponent of people, that a lot of people deserve attention even in these locations, and a lot of them need to be pulled out and offered to help them here. But we were talking here about putting the pieces together, and this is one of the pieces, the issue is wider. But you don't want to hear it because it's not a government proposal, but the past period has really been working on this for over two years intensive work together with the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, there's a lot of positive stuff, and you're gonna kill it here. And a message for Pirstan - look into your own ranks, how who defends what, how who says what.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u39	Thank you, Madame. He will now speak with the de facto Member Aleš Juchelka. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm just gonna give you a few facts. On the contrary, I think that social work in some excluded localities works very well through various charities, for example in the Moravian-Silesian Region there is an excellent Silesian diaconie, which works in excluded localities directly within social work. But in some way, this is going to pass on to those people who live there, because we have a statistically increasing number of excluded localities year after year, and in our country, these people actually live in one entrance with holes in social facilities in the wall for crazy money in businessmen with poverty in the pile next to families with children, so there are seniors who are excluded socially, plus, of course, easily mentally disabled people. We had a law on affordable housing prepared here in the last parliamentary term, even I think there was a law on social housing. On the contrary, I think that we could lean on that last term, and come up with some kind of reference to these laws, but to kill just what went through the last parliamentary term until the third reading, here in this election period at first reading, seems pointless to me, because on the contrary, we can rely on this law, talk about it on committees, talk about it in depth. [[20.10 hours]] The problem, of course, is wider. The municipalities have disposed of their housing funds, they cannot offer de facto to people with social exclusion any further accommodation. And I remember that we set up the MMR, Klára Dostálová, a law on available housing, which, on the contrary, was not adopted here by the current coalition. So I do not understand de facto what the current coalition wants, what its vision is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u41	Your time is up, thank you for keeping time. We have now exhausted all the factual points and Mrs Renata Oulehlová has duly signed up for the debate and Mrs Eva Fialová will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to clarify some of the things that have fallen here. We're having fun here, or the law is all about people who don't want to work. That's the important thing to say. We just have people who live the way they live. They're destroying apartments. It's important to say they're destroying apartments. Those flats didn't live by themselves, they were destroyed. You probably know all the housing estates in many cities as it seems. We have poor businessmen who parasite on the poorest, we agree. We've sent all the controls, hygiene, firefighters... There's just no way to make their living better. We all pay the sum of money to people who parasite on these people. I would like to say to the Vice-President, through Madam President, that we no longer have a hostel. And we like to remember the time when we had the dormitories and those people were at least concentrated in one place, because what happened to us by different experts was that, by creating the ghetto, this is the situation. We had the worst that could have happened in Sokolov, that these people really spread out throughout the city, where poverty merchants are buying apartments. I note that Sokolov City has a rather large housing fund, that we didn't sell everything, all the apartments, but the companies that owned the apartments used to sell their apartments. That's why this happened. All we have to do is have one family in one decent doorway with such exquisites. Within a month, they can make life so uncomfortable for people who get up in the morning, who don't get to work, because these exquisites are capable, and maybe even after agreement with the person who rents them the apartment, three times a night to run over a cooker heater so they don't get any sleep, so those people go to work great, their kids go to school, knowing that their taxes are paid by these people. And what I said-- you call the police, but you can't do anything, nothing's happening. So I have to say, being distracted was the worst thing that could have happened to us. And I really want to assure the Vice-President that the hostels are long gone. Madam Vice-President, through Madam President, spoke of massive support in schools. We focus so much on those schools, we try so hard to make it work, but what do you do if the kids just don't send you? You were talking about checking that we have six checks, but how are you supposed to do that if their parents write them a note? He doesn't have to be a doctor anymore, so the kid's got 200, 300 hours left behind, but excused. So where do you want to get it? Then I noted here: mayors. After the toll-free zones were lifted, it happened... Or like this, maybe even if... The Constitutional Court - did it even understand the principle of free zones? What happened to us was that we had a large number of people rushing into our town with absolutely no ties to the city, to the edge, but they just went to the apartment, to the people who were expensively renting the apartments to them. When this was discovered, fortunately, we had a tool, a pay-free zone. The city of Sokolov was the very first in the Republic to introduce the toll-free zones. I'm sure they weren't all-savvy, at all, but what happened was that these people didn't come in such a massive amount. What happened next is that even the puppies that are parasitic on them tried to at least a standard of the apartment so that the people wouldn't circulate around the city. Those families moved us after, like, a month, and we weren't able to start any social work at all, but none at all, because we didn't know where they were. The charge-free zone solved this, and the situation started to get better at least a little bit. But unfortunately, then came the decision that turned things around again. [[Noise in the right side of the hall, where the crowds of the debating Members are formed.]] I have to say, I don't know if you know this - but it's also interesting that we in Sokolov's most active poverty dealer, who now has a circus of 150 flats, are estimated to cost at least 400,000 a month, and we're probably a lot on the wall, so he's alone in the employment register, because the legislator just has a gap... [[The speaker is turning to the chair because of the noise.]] Could I please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u43	Of course, Madame. [[Member of the Oulhlová: I apologize.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the right, please give the opportunity for the lady to finish her speech in a dignified atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u44	Thank you very much. So this guy who parasites the poorest is on his own in the records of the Labor Office. It's like he's gonna sign up on the last day of the month, sign off on the first day of the month after, and we're all gonna take good care of him for two months. He's laughing in our eyes. I was still dealing with Mrs Sadílková, the CEO of the Labor Office, just the hole is still there. [[Czech]] We've only had one before, we've got 15 of them today. Another problem is family foster care. We have 207 foster parents, of which 197 are related foster care. We already have pregnant women coming to OSPOD with their mothers, whom the pregnant mother of that future grandmother had taken away from OSPOD because she didn't care about her, but we're giving them a baby today, actually a grandson, and we're gonna reward them very well for that. Those kids are mostly with their mothers, but that's just the way it is, and it seems to suit us. [[Noise in the left side, where the noises also formed.]] If I could go back to the mayors. There are many of us mayors here, and the moment that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u45	Madam, I'm sorry to interrupt. This time I ask my colleagues from the left. Calm down, please. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u46	The moment the toll-free zones were lifted, we joined together through the Union of Cities and Cities, and it was a really unpleasant surprise to me how many cities already suffer from this problem. For example, Mayor Hodonín, where I wouldn't say it was, but they are small villages where panel houses were built in socialism, and it is really hard for those city representatives, but especially for those citizens who live there. Therefore, I would appeal to all the mayors, there are really many of us, and if we don't start doing something about it, it will really spread increasingly to more and more cities and communities of our beautiful country. So please, let's do another reading and try to work on it better. But please, we're actually... or every country... or there'll always be people who'll just be on doses, and we probably have to accept that, but if they're getting the benefits and then they're terrorizing us, we don't want to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u47	I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I beg you to keep your voice down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u48	After all, we really don't want anything else to let us sleep in peace, so that there is no reduced sense of security in those cities and municipalities, because it is, unfortunately, and it is reflected in all sectors of life of this affected cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u49	President Benda with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u50	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize to the left side of the hall in particular at the moment, the opposition, but unfortunately an extraordinary government is being convened thanks to the situation of what is happening, ministers must leave. This point has stretched out, I was kind of hoping we could finish it, I know it's a little unfair of us, but I think we're in a situation where 2.5 hours on the opposition window has to be enough because there's no member of the government here. I think we need to end today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-03-ps2021-009-05-018-027.u51	Yes, on the proposal of President Benda, I must end this meeting, interrupt this meeting, with no minister or minister present, I interrupt the meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow and wish you a good evening.
