ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u1	127. Government bill amending Act No. 164/2013 Coll., on International Cooperation in Tax Administration and on Amendment of Other Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 203/ - Third Reading I ask that the Minister of Transport Kupka and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Naiclerová, take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff. The amendment is set out in the Chambers of Press 203/3, delivered on 7 September 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 203/4. I therefore ask the appellant whether he has an interest in speaking before the opening of the debate? Yes, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will just briefly sum up that the proposed amendment to the law includes important changes in three laws in the case of the law on international cooperation in tax administration. This is, for example, the introduction of an automatic exchange of information obtained from Internet platform operators in the area of the shared economy, the amendment to the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, where, following the introduction of other instruments of international cooperation, an instrument not yet used in tax management, namely control purchase, is introduced for the control of obligations, and finally the amendment to the Act on International Assistance in the Recovery of certain financial claims, where the possibility of international enforcement of tax sanctions is regulated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u3	Thank you, Minister, and I hereby open the debate to which President Schillerová has applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an amendment or discussing, here we are at third reading, an amendment to the Act on International Cooperation in Tax Administration, which is a response to the directive, as rightly said by the Minister, the Council of the EU 2021/514 of 22 March 2021 amending the previous directives - I will not repeat it here again, it is the so-called DAC 7 Directive. Today there is a de facto law that our cabinet has proposed, and the government's five-calice has decided to proceed and take over this proposal, which is fine. In fact, I am very positive about this and I am glad that we are continuing our work at the moment, that there is basically only one amendment at the moment, if I have registered it well, Minister Stanjura, who is also a proposal which in a way does not change the form or reach of the amendment. As far as the substance is concerned, our government, the government of Andrej Babiš, which I was part of as Minister of Finance, pushed through and worked out the implementation of this directive. It was precisely the topic of the digital economy, the link with the tax issue, which was absolutely essential for our then government. That is why we have managed to become leaders very often in debates on this issue, in the context of the whole of the European Union. By introducing rules that strengthen transparency in relation to individual digital platforms, the amendment aims to improve efficiency in tax collection. Directive DAC 7 seeks to obtain data mainly from digital platforms operating in several countries at the same time, and the directive also allows information to be obtained so that there is no more reporting of revenue, and thus that individual entities' income is not part of the grey economy - for example Uber and others. These are all topics that we know very well from practice, and if you don't have information, you can hardly tax properly. A significant part of the proposal is the extension of the current framework for international automatic exchange of information in the field of digital economies. One of their objectives is to modernise, streamline, simplify international cooperation between states. The tax administrator in the Czech Republic will therefore regularly receive information about individual vendors who receive income from the provision of services or sales of goods, rentals or other provision of real estate or, for example, means of transport on these platforms. I welcome this novel. It helps us exactly where we have always considered it and consider the YES movement to be important. It is precisely the sector of effective tax collection and digitization of government. An honest-working entrepreneur must not be thrown into a competitive disadvantage simply because he follows the law and is honest. It must no longer be done that it is worth not admitting the actual amount of income. I also acknowledge the efficiency and modernisation of the existing institutes used in international cooperation in tax administration, the strengthening of legal cooperation supported by the introduction of new deadlines and institutes that are created in such dynamic sectors. I find it absolutely essential that the amendment focuses on a dynamically changing environment. It is precisely the sector of digital economies, platforms providing various purchases, borrowings or leases that need to be kept up with. It is precisely information about platforms that work not only in the Czech Republic, which is scarce. Both the Czech Republic and the European Union themselves suffer from a lack. Without sufficient information, the State cannot adequately measure the tax on revenue generated from commercial activities carried out through digital platforms. Examples: I've already given Uber, but it could be Liftago, Airbnb, Bolt and others. [[12.20 hours]] In strengthening the measures to comply with the obligations under the International Cooperation in Tax Administration Act, the draft act also contains a clarification of the transposition of Council Directive 2010/24/EU on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims arising from taxes, charges, duties and other measures and makes clear the scope of the International Assistance Act in the recovery of certain financial claims as regards the enforcement of penalties imposed in tax proceedings. On a specific level - just for your imagination - the bill can be divided into several thematic units. These are other forms of international cooperation in tax administration, including tax control, which is carried out together with the authorities of all Member States of the European Union or of the Contracting States, international exchange of information in tax management including group requests, protection of personal data and correction of breaches of their security, automatic exchange of information obtained from platform operators, amendment of the Act on Financial Administration of the Czech Republic associated with the modification of the Institute of Control Purchase and International Assistance in the Enforcement of Tax Penalties. The proposed proposal will ultimately increase the collection of taxes and thus the revenue of public budgets. The introduction will also lead to a settlement of the business environment and a partial return to the way of combating unfair business practices. In a way, this amendment characterizes the ANO movement's position on tax issues, and I consider it a good example of how better tax collection should look. I'm sorry for saying such a long word, but I still felt a lot connected to the novel from the point of view of my former presence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u5	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? I'm looking... If this is not the case, this is the end of the debate. I wonder if the plaintiffs are interested in the final word? The Minister doesn't, the rapporteur does. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As rapporteur for the Committee on Budget as a Guarantee Committee, let me introduce you to the resolution on this Government Bill amending Act No. 164/2013 Coll., on International Cooperation in Tax Administration and on Amendment of Other Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, House Press 203, for Third Reading. "The resolution of the Budget Committee of the 16th meeting of 14 September 2022. Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee to discuss the draft law for second reading I. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to vote in the third reading on the proposal for a bill under House print 203/3 in the following order: the application for the rejection of the law has not been filed; 1. voting on legislative technical adaptations if they are presented at third reading; 2. proposal A - House document 1176; 3. voting on the bill as a whole; II. adopt the following opinion on the proposal submitted: And he recommends; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at the third reading of the bill; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." Given that no legislative technical amendments have been made at third reading, and on this government bill there is only this one amendment, marked as House document 1176 A, I propose a procedure whereby, firstly, we will vote on this amendment - House document 1176 - as proposal A, and on this, the opinion of the Committee on Budgets: recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u7	Thank you. You've actually come to the next stage - you've introduced us to the voting procedure. Because it's not complicated, I'm just gonna ask if anyone else has a suggestion, or if that's how we can agree? If so, I will ask you once again, if you could just point by point, even if we have only one amendment, to get to know exactly what we are going to vote on. I'll have my colleagues come. I see a motion to unsubscribe, and I hereby unsubscribe you. I'm gonna ask you to sign up again. In the meantime, our colleagues will be arriving. Once again, I ask you to take us through the vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u8	We are voting on a single amendment by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, as House document 1176 - proposal A. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets is: it recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-003-127.u9	I'm asking the Minister? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I hereby initiate the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 124, registered 127, for was 126, no one against. Result: accepted. As there is no further amendment, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 164/2013 Coll., on International Cooperation in Tax Administration and on Amendment of Other Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, pursuant to House Press 203, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 125, registered 130, for was 130, against no one. Result: accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and that is the end of this discussion. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin another point, and this is
