ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-006-017.u1	17. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of the financial market, particularly in the context of the implementation of European Union regulations relating to the Union of Capital Markets (German press 95/ - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Minister, I ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-006-017.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. As with the previous point, I will remind you that this press has already been here in the last parliamentary term, it has been designated as the Parliamentary Press 1117. This government proposal implements a number of European Union regulations relating to the Union of Capital Markets. It is a common European project which aims to integrate the capital markets of individual Member States more closely. The draft law implements European Union legislation on the revision of capital requirements for securities traders, harmonisation of covered bond legislation, regulation of cross-border offer of a collective investment fund, provision of group financing services, legislation on sustainable financing and a legislative package that responds in the field of the capital market in the case of the stock-market pandemic of the Covid-19. As with the previous press, I ask you to approve this bill in the first reading under § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-006-017.u3	Thank you, Minister, for introducing this House press. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Michael Kohajda, to take the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-006-017.u4	Thank you. Madam President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, as the Minister has said, we have before us the House press number 95 of the Government's bill amending certain laws on the financial market. The Government has submitted this bill to the House 15. 12. 2021, it was sent to you as House Press 95. As the Minister said, the appellant asks the House to give its consent to this proposal at first reading under Section 90 of our Rules of Procedure. It should be noted that the first reading approval is justified in particular by the deadlines for implementing this regulation, which we have already missed in many parts in 2019, 2020 or 2021, which means we are very late in some parts in implementation. As the Minister said, these are all laws relating to the creation of a Union of capital markets within the European Union, and some of the proposals then respond to the ongoing pandemic covid, which is, in particular, an adjustment to the MiFID II adjustment. There is probably no reason for me to repeat all the changes contained in the proposal concerning individual parts of the capital markets. In conclusion, let me just say that, of course, I recommend to the House that the House give its consent to this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-006-017.u5	I also thank the rapporteur for his first reading, Mr Michael Kohajda, at this point in time for the introduction of this House press. At this point, I would like to open a general debate. I will ask, because I do not see any applications registered for the general debate, if anyone is reporting for the general debate from the point of view? I see, yes, Mr. Hrnčíř. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-006-017.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I have mentioned briefly in the previous speech, this is again another Euro-Federalist project, the so-called Union of Financial Markets, which has fallen from the European Union. If you look into the press, it's the implementation of 57 directives and regulations. The proposal itself includes an explanatory statement of 240 pages. This means that we are going to mingle again with our legal order, while supervision of capital markets is anchored quite sufficiently in our legislation. I think that the various crises that have taken place in the past have also shown and confirmed that the supervision of our institutions, whether it is the Ministry of Finance or it is the Czech National Bank, that legislation is so robust and sufficient that we are resistant to any such influences. So I think it's another thing we really don't need. I would therefore like to file a motion for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-006-017.u7	Thank you. There's a motion to dismiss. I'm going to ask if anyone else is reporting for the general debate? I see no one. At this point, I am ending the general debate. I'm going to ask at this point if there's any interest in the final words? It's not. First, we're gonna have to deal with the motion to dismiss that fell here. [[There's a discussion going on outside the microphone, what's the right procedure.]] As I have now consulted in some way - because there has been a motion for rejection, we will first have to deal with § 90 and then, if necessary, we would deal with the motion for rejection. This means that if § 90 passes, then we will still have to deal with the motion to reject the vote because Mr Jan Hrnčíř fell at the plenary here. At this point, we must decide according to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. We all know what we're going to vote on. There's a motion to check out. I'll take the liberty of checking you all out, and I'll ask you all to sign in. I will continue to engage, although I can see that there are enough Members in the hall. Still, I'll wait a little longer. I would like to read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 95 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. And who abstained? Voting number 123, 159 Members signed in for 140, against 17, two abstained. The motion has been approved. We are now entering into a detailed debate. I'm gonna ask if anybody signed up for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone entering into a detailed debate, and I am ending the debate in detail. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? I do not see from the Minister of Finance, nor from the rapporteur. At this point, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will mention, under the Rules of Procedure, first we will vote, if we do not agree, only then would the motion for a rejection be followed under the Rules of Procedure. I would like to make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending certain laws on the financial market, particularly in the context of the implementation of the European Union's rules on the Union of Capital Markets, according to House press 95'. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. And who abstained? At this point, I note that in the vote number 124, 161 Members were enrolled, 144 were in favour, 17 were opposed, no one was held up. The motion was accepted. I note that at this point, the motion to reject is unvoting, and I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[11.40 hours]] I thank the Minister of Finance, thank the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this House press. Now I dare to read an apology. Mr Vladimír Balaš apologizes from today's meeting day between 9 and 13 o'clock. So that was an apology. At the same time, it says that we have some kind of system failure, which is why it is delivered at the moment. So now, according to the approved program, we're getting to a point number.
