ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-28-ps2021-006-08-001-082.u1	82. Proposal for confirmation by the Chairs of the Chamber of Deputies Committees According to Article 50 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (s) our Rules of Procedure are confirmed by the Chairs of the Committees in their I would like to inform you that the Defence Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development elected new Presidents at their meetings on 26 and 27 January of this year: Mr Lubomír Metnar was elected President of the Defence Committee and Mr Klára Dostálová was elected President of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating debate. I am ending the debate and we will now proceed to the vote. [[10.50 hours]] I recommend that we vote separately on each President. Is there any point to that? Yes, I've noted the application for check-out. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to sign in. The number of Members has stabilized. First of all, we will vote on the confirmation of the Chair of the Defence Committee. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms Mr Lubomír Metnar as Chairman of the Defence Committee'. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 101, 133 Members were enrolled, 127 were in favour of the proposal, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have confirmed the President of the Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Lubomír Metnar. Congratulations. We will now vote on the confirmation of the Chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I will also make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms Ms Klára Dostálová as Chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development'. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 136 Members were voted in favour of the proposal, 136 were voted in favour, and no one was opposed. The motion was accepted. I note that we have confirmed the Chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Klára Dostálová. Congratulations, too. That concludes item 82. The next item is the item
