ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u1	101. Government bill amending Act No. 67/2013 Coll., which regulates certain questions relating to the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential spaces in the house with apartments, as amended /house printing 199/ - third reading I understand that the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and also the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jiří Havránek, are already in place at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 199/2, which was delivered on 29 September 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 199/3. And now I am asking the Vice Prime Minister whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? He does, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam, honourable Members, perhaps my opening act will be a little longer, as this proposal has been widely discussed both on the committee and on the subcommittee. I would now briefly reiterate the main reasons put forward by the amendment to the Services Act and, at the same time, I would also comment on the partial amendments that will be made. The submitted amendment was prepared at the initiative of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is a gesture of transposition amending the European Energy Efficiency Directive. As I mentioned earlier, the deadline for transposition of this directive has already expired on 25 October - and now beware - of 2020. Due to delays, however, caused by a variety of facts of an objective nature, such as the pandemic covid, there has been a delay and the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against the Czech Republic. This was stopped on 15 July of this year and on the basis of our communication with the European Commission following the discussion of the proposed amendment at first reading, and therefore in the expectation that this amendment will be accepted at second and third reading. The European Commission is following quite closely developments in this case, as the transposition period has actually passed two years ago, and therefore we do not expect that the adoption of this transposition law to be postponed, as there would actually be a reopening of infringement proceedings. So if this directive is not transposed in the nearest possible period, there is a threat to the Czech Republic of sanctions that the Court of Justice of the European Union could impose on a proposal from the European Commission. That's probably the background of this press. Otherwise, the content of the proposal itself. I would like to draw attention again, and it still sounds, even though we have already disproved this in public space, even from some partners, this transposition does not provide for an obligation to install remote-deductible meters in a house with flats. This obligation, which is there, has long been established since 1 January 2022 in Section 7 paragraph. 11 Act 406/2000 Coll., on Energy Management, which is in the Gesture of the MIT. On the contrary, which are the three most important proposed changes in the transposition: it is the obligation of monthly information on consumption, the obligation to provide billing and information on consumption by energy service providers and the explicit determination of the consequences of defects in the billing on the maturity of the default. Perhaps the most discussed provision of the proposal is precisely the provision setting out the obligation for monthly information on consumption. Again, I would stress: this obligation only occurs if remotely deductible gauges are installed in the house. I'll get back to it a little later. If not installed, no such obligation arises. The installation of new heat meters, hot water water water meters, indicators on radiators, which will be considered remotely deductible, is mandatory in the Czech Republic from 1. 1. 2022, in particular when exchanging them. There's a cycle of about five years, if I'm not mistaken when the meters are being replaced, then they're actually supposed to install these remote-deductible gauges by law, but this transposition doesn't introduce this, it's just what they're counting on. From January 2027 only gauges with remote reading should be used. [[11.10 hours]] A relatively large role - and I have repeatedly highlighted the words 'with a long-distance deduction' - also plays the definition of what is considered a remotely deductible gauge, leaving the European Commission to the will of each national state. There is therefore room to define terms so that it does not move a large number of objects, respectively entities, and service providers. In particular, we do not want this obligation to apply to those entities that deduct this by running errands, errands or otherwise. When we entered the debate, we actually discovered that there are two definitions - as it was written in this proposal, but most importantly, they are not the ones that you do over the radio or over the Internet, but they are considered to be all gauges that aren't actually behind the building's apartment door, which I found rather strange. [[Covered]] That is why we have focused very much on this here, too, in the discussion, what is the definition of a remotely deductible meter. In this context, I would like to express my support for the amendment that has been tabled here, which is loaded into the system, Mr Havránek, or the guarantee committee. It's marked A1. This proposal contains a change in the definition of remotely deductible gauge in the newly supplemented § 2 para. 2 and 4 of the Services Act in such a way as to include only such equipment, allowing me to calculate at a distance of more than 250 metres. This change will then cause service providers, who would have to provide an errand or drive-by car reading of meters each month, to avoid high costs for these readings, and in the future they will probably already have those readings as they are considering the amendment, that they are those that are at a greater distance or over the Internet. However, from 1 January 2027 at the latest, it is necessary to ensure agreement with the definition of a remotely deductible gauge in Section 7 (2) (a). 12 Energy Management Act. The transposition directive assumes that, at this time, there will already be long-range deductible gauges installed wherever possible and cost-effective, and therefore it will also be expected to be in homes where monthly information on consumption will take place. We originally considered adjusting the definition in the Energy Management Act, with which the MIT agreed. The proposal for this amendment was tabled by Mr Havránek as an amendment which I believe is now marked when the procedure is presented as proposal C1. However, it turned out that we would be particularly burdened by small and highly independent SVJs. We would force service providers into installing the latest technologies, even though they do not find it difficult to provide heat consumption by means of older technologies, including, for example, by going around the floor of the house and making a visual reading of the values from the dials of the meters that are currently accessible from the hallway of the house. At the same time, Mr Havránek has therefore tabled an amendment, which you have as C2. This can be seen as a better solution and we, as the Ministry of Regional Development, would prefer it. That's why, when we discuss it with those... with the C1 proposal, I'd declare disapproval, while the C2 Ministry, through me, would support it. C2 is proposed with effect from 1 January 2027, where it is considered to align the law in the definition of a remote-deductible meter with the definition of a remote-deductible meter under the Energy Management Act. By 31 December 2026 - I would just like it to be said here - that is to say, only those providers who already have installed gauges or heat devices with a reading of more than 250 meters will have to be required for monthly information on consumption. [[unintelligible]] Therefore, the fulfilment of these obligations should not cause them any excessive and unbearable costs and from January 2027, i.e. four years from now, all service providers who will have installed gauges that are not required to be deducted will already have a monthly information on consumption. The second transposition change is the obligation of the service provider to, at the request of the service recipient, provide the energy service provider with the statement of the service recipient and information on its consumption over the last three years, if available, under the Energy Management Act. Here, in particular, it is necessary to explain who is the provider of energy services. These are persons who generally ensure, for some consideration, a reduction in energy consumption or an increase in energy efficiency and the like. And the third amendment I would like to point out is the proposed explicit determination of the consequences of the billing for the maturity of outstanding payments for services in Section 7 of the third paragraph. If the billing defect does not affect the calculated amount of the outstanding amount, the balance shall become due. The aim is to prevent the default from becoming due, for example, when there is a change. We mentioned here, for example, the birth name of the woman who got married during the settlement period, changed her last name. Moreover, the information to be included in the bill, which is not related to the calculated amount of the default, has been substantially extended by the transposition amendment to the implementing decree. Examples of defects that have and do not affect the calculated amount of default are then more detailed in the explanatory memorandum to this proposal. I would just briefly comment here on the amendments in advance. I express the full support of the proposal designated as A2. It concerns the amendment of Section 8 of the Services Act and is directed against dishonest conduct by recipients of services, which may cause injury not only to the provider but also to honest recipients of services. The proposal by Mrs Fialová and Mr Havránek, designated as B, proposes, in particular, that service providers do not have to inform service recipients of the disclosure of information about their consumption on the Internet every month. I take a neutral position on this parliamentary proposal as the petitioner of the Government's proposal. I'll give you the genesis and thank you for your cooperation with the Public Administration Committee. Although the European Commission's recommendation talks about this, we have analysed the fourteen implementations of this directive, and we have found that a number of states, actually most of the fourteen, have been implemented without this explicit rule, so I understand, from my point of view, it is as a recommendation, yet I will take a neutral position for the Ministry, because we have drawn that interpretation from the practical example of implementation. On the contrary, what I cannot support, and this is related to the reason I mentioned at the outset, is the proposal identified as A3. The proposal consists in deferring the obligation of the service provider to inform the recipient of the service of its consumption at least every month. As I have already said, the transposition period has already expired on 25 October 2020. Monthly information on consumption should have been implemented in the EU Member States since 1 January 2022, so it is still very unfortunate, albeit partially, with the introduction of this obligation to delay. Yes, there should probably have been a more massive information campaign and active communication even more, in the direction that this obligation in implementation is also with a plan when it will be translated into it. I must warn that the Czech Republic would be exposed to the risk of infringement proceedings by the European Union if this amendment was adopted, and I therefore remind you once again that the definition of the remotely deductible measure of the entity - by changing the definition - will be considerably reduced by the range of entities to whom the obligation to provide monthly information on consumption will be reduced. So even the argument of a rapid increase in higher costs is not relevant or not relevant for those groups we have encountered, because it was often presented or their user examples were linked to the definition of a remote-deductible meter according to the old format, i.e. all gauges located beyond, for example, the housing unit and the like. I thank you for your attention, I apologize for a little bit longer introduction, but we also spent on the committee on this press with individual representatives of both SVJ and the companies that manage a large number of apartments for quite a long time, which is why I found it appropriate to comment here on the things that we discussed there. And I would like to thank all those involved, Members, but also representatives of these very bodies, for their excellent cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u3	I also thank the Minister and open the debate. If the rapporteur wishes to sign up, can he have priority rights in the debate, is that so? Then they are signed in, as shown on the blackboard. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u4	Happy Friday, everyone. I will be very short, because the Minister has, in many ways, been subservient to the intelligence report. As far as the last meeting of our Committee on Public Administration is concerned, the procedure has, of course, been approved. On the various amendments, the Minister, A1, A2, A3, B and C2, has actually adopted an agreement on the proposals. For the C1 proposal, that is, for the definition adjustment, which is actually less accurate than the amendment in Amendment C2, we have therefore given a dissenting opinion. I, as well as the Minister, would like to thank all the Members of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and also the Sub-Committee on Housing Policy, because I have to say that both the expert debate and the debate have been conducted here across the political spectrum, in fact, on how to harm SVJ or housing cooperatives as little as possible in this current situation. I believe that the work in the last six months on this law can be seen, even with regard to amendments, where the Ministry of Regional Development really was a very good partner. As has been said here, other follow-up tasks were carried out in quotation marks and adjustments to how the transposition takes place in other countries, so we literally cut it to the bone. It is also appropriate to thank representatives of SVJ and housing teams who regularly attended our individual meetings. Here I would also like to comment on the dissenting position of partial delay by the Ministry. This proposal also went through some genesis, first there was a delay in the effectiveness of the entire law. Consequently, it was adjusted during the first meeting of the Public Administration Committee on this press only for a partial delay in the information obligation, and it is really based on the wishes and requirements of the sector here. I understand the ministry's position, but on the other hand, we have 14 today. 10th and further approval will be given in the Senate, which is why I think this delay is appropriate. Many thanks again to everyone and I will look forward to voting afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u5	Thank you and now Mrs Klára Dostálová, Mrs Marie Pošarová will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you so much for the floor. In fact, I will follow up on the rapporteur, Mr Havránek. I would also really like to appreciate that the coalition has simply worked perfectly with the opposition over this law, and this is also seen in the amendments tabled, on which there is basically agreement. I'd even poke out some of the things that have been responded to within the committee, because the alpha omega that the housing squad and SVJ have been complaining about is that since 1. 1. 2023 should be required to inform owners and tenants on a monthly basis of the consumption of heat and hot water. They claim that they are only able to provide the information to the settlement or administrative firms that would charge this new service. That was actually the main reason why we started doing this, because at a time of really big stress tests for any extra cost, we tried to eliminate it. They even estimated that the price of these services could be up to 800 crowns a year per apartment. Given that according to the Czech Statistical Office in the Czech Republic in 2011, there were 2 434 619 flats, so if we calculated each, it would be about 2 billion per year. This was indeed the reason why we were looking for solutions that we reflected in the amendments adopted by the committee, and we were working on them really coalitions with opposition, so there is absolute agreement on these issues. This is where the Ministry stated in its explanatory report that it was an amendment to the transposition of the directive, but the Ministry no longer stated that it was a recommendation, not a binding regulation. In fact, the recommending opinion means that a Member State can adjust it according to its local conditions and adjust it to make it meaningful and cost-effective. Since we were also communicating with individual housing associations, as another thing it turned out that they really in practice - and always it is good to listen to experts from practice - feared that the recipient of services could use the general deadlines given by the Civil Code and actually apply his objections against the bill backwards, which, of course, is a big problem for both housing cooperatives and SVJ, after all, for energy suppliers. That is why I am very pleased that even in cooperation with the Ministry it was actually built hard that this bill behaves as lex specialis, which means that the time limits laid down by this law cannot be circumvented by the Civil Code. This means that it really is simply hard written that the deadlines will only be governed by this law. And the last thing Mr Havránek mentioned is the original timetable. I, too, would advocate that we really, even if the Ministry gave a dissenting opinion on this, turn to the future users of this law, because we must realise that the deadline originally should have been by 25 October 2020. Now there's a new 1. 1. 2023 and we have October 14, 2022. We have actually agreed not to postpone the law as a whole, but that there is indeed a delay in invading the information society. They have to prepare for it. They are, of course, ready to do it in the most rapid steps. But I believe that if the entire law works the way the transposition wants it to, to 1. 1. 2023, however, will only delay the information obligation to 1. 1. 2024, that's how it's gonna be in the finals for the benefit of the cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u7	Thank you, too. It is now Mrs Marie Pošarová's turn to make her contribution. I am just saying that there is no one else involved in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think almost everything has been said here. I just wanted to say that the Association of Czech and Moravian Housing Cooperatives has turned to us on the current amendment to the Act and responded to the current amendment from the Pen of the Ministry for Regional Development, which brings another unnecessary administration for home managers, plus the associated significant financial costs for housing cooperatives. I therefore recommend approving the amendments that have been tabled, which will significantly relieve the budgets of housing cooperatives and prevent further increases in housing for citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u9	Thank you. I'm gonna take another look around and see if anyone else is checking in? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words? [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: It is not.]] If there is no interest, we can therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. Once again, I will call my fellow Members from the lobby and ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and also to give an opinion on them before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u10	Thank you for the floor. The Committee on Public Administration recommended the procedure in the following order: first, proposals for technical adaptations which did not come forward in the third reading, so we approach the A1 proposal directly, which is a change in the definition of the remote deductible gauge. Then, if design A1 is approved, the proposal C2 should follow, which is to align the definitions of the remote deductible meter with the definition in Law No. 406/2000 Sb., v gesci MPO. If this proposal C2 had not been approved, we would have accepted the proposal C1, which is also an adjustment of the definition, but not in line, but directly in Act No. 406/2000 Coll. In addition, a proposal A2 would follow, which is an irrefutable presumption of consent to the manner and content of the bill, then proposal B, which is a monthly notification of the disclosure of information about consumption on the Internet, and finally proposal A3, i.e. divided effectiveness of the law, deferment of the obligation of monthly information on consumption, and finally draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u11	Thank you for presenting the draft procedure. I'm gonna ask you, for the record, is there any other proposal to change the procedure? It's not. Initiating vote on the draft procedure presented. Who is in favour of this procedure? Who's against it? Voting number 97, 151 Members and Members have been voted in favour of 138, versus 0. The procedure has been voted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u12	We will therefore now proceed to Amendment A1, which is a change in the definition of a remotely deductible gauge. The opinion of the guarantee committee is a recommendation, i.e. consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u13	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 98, 152 votes in favour of 143, versus 0. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u14	Now, therefore, Amendment C2, which is the alignment of the definition of a remotely deductible gauge with the definition in Law No 2 406/2000 Coll. The opinion of the Public Administration Committee is a recommendation, i.e. consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u15	Thank you. The Minister's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? The '99 vote, 151, for 142, against 0. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u16	Since the C2 proposal has been adopted, the C1 proposal becomes unvoting. We therefore approach Amendment A2, which is an irrefutable presumption of consent to the manner and content of the bill for which the opinion of the guarantee committee is recommended is in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u17	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 100, 152 votes in favour of 147, versus 0. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u18	We are now coming to the amendment under letter B, which is a monthly notification of the disclosure of information on consumption on the Internet of Havránek and Mrs Fialová, with which the Public Administration Committee also gave a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u19	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 101, 152 Members voted for 143, against 0. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u20	The last amendment A3, i.e. the divided effectiveness of the Act of deferment of the obligation of monthly information on consumption, also here the Committee on Public Administration adopted a favourable recommendation opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u21	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 102, 152 Members and Members have been voted in favour of 128, versus 3. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. Since all the proposals have been voted on... Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u22	That is so, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-10-14-ps2021-041-04-005-101.u23	We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 67/2013 Coll., which regulates certain issues relating to the provision of performance related to the use of flats and non-residential premises in a house with flats, as amended, according to the House of Press 199, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I have begun the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 103, 152 Members and Members, for 147, versus 0. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I am done discussing this point. Opening point
