ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-10-ps2021-014-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 83 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 4 March this year. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Pavel Žáček. Does anyone else have a suggestion, please? I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'll ask all of you to sign up with your ID cards. We will vote on the designation of two verifiers of this meeting, and these are Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Pavel žáček. I don't see another suggestion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number one, 135 Members registered, for 133, against no one, the proposal was adopted. I therefore note that we have designated Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Pavel Žáček as verifiers of the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that, before the opening of the meeting, they have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting by these Members... and I do not seem to have a list available... Yes, thank you. So these Members apologize: Bělobrádek Pavel - health reasons, Klára Dostálová - health reasons, Fifka Petr - no reason given, Foldyna Jaroslav - health reasons, Hájek Jiří - work reasons, Helebrant Tomáš within 12 hours - health reasons, Hrnčíř Jan - foreign trip, Krutáková Jana - family reasons, Kučera Michal within 10 hours - no reason given, Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka - family reasons, Quittová Petra - no reason given, Stržínek Robert within 15 hours - working reasons, Válková Helena by 9.30 - working reasons, Vondrák Ivo - health reasons, Wenzl Milan - health reasons, Zajíčková Renáta by 9.45 for working reasons. Mr Josef Kott also apologizes, between 10 and 12 o'clock, for a doctor's visit. The members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš - working reasons, Jurečka Marian - foreign travel, Lipavskýý Jan - working reasons, Síkela Jozef - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal - working reasons. And now we will proceed to the agenda of the 14th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Under the Rules of Procedure, we will now vote on the whole proposal for the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby again. We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 14th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 147 Members and Members signed up, for 147, against no one. The proposal was approved, so we adopted the proposal for the 14th meeting. And now we're going to proceed to the first item on the show
