ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain services of the information society and on the amendment of certain laws (the Act on certain services of the information society), as amended /German press 106/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be given by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela, who is thus taking the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the House press number 106 of the Bill amending Act No. 480/2004 Coll., on certain services of the information society and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. [[Act on certain information society services]] [[15.10 hours]] The draft amendment is submitted because of the adaptation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union 2019/1150 of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of online brokering services laying down the definition of trade relations between Internet intermediary service providers and business users of such services. Specifically, it is to ensure adequate and effective enforcement of the regulation in question and the designation of the supervisory authority, in this case the Czech Telecommunications Authority. The draft law is of a purely implementing nature and is in content identical to the draft law, which was already submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on 7 October 2020. At that time, it was House press number 1047. However, due to the end of the term of office, the legislative process has not been completed. In contrast to the previous proposal, only the formal adjustment was made to the part of the explanatory memorandum relating to the warning of the supervisory authority, which proved misleading in the previous hearing. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the proposed bill for two reasons. First, due to the urgency of time, the deadline for adapting the rule of law expired in July 2020, and the current situation could therefore have a negative impact on the Czech Republic. The second reason is that it is only a technical amendment to ensure adequate and effective enforcement of the regulation in question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the introduction of the proposal, and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Marek Novák, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, as the Minister has already said, the draft amendment to the Act is tabled because of the adaptation of the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of justice and transparency for business users of online brokering services establishing the definition of trade relations between Internet service providers and business users of their services. The aim is to add enforcement provisions to the law, to further supplement the supervisory authority and to correct the legal regulation of offences. The Ministry of Industry and Trade here proposes the designation of the Czech Telecommunications Office as a supervisory authority over compliance with the regulation, which will also discuss and enforce offences. The Institute shall be supplemented with an alert to a breach of the regulation to prevent infringement proceedings in less serious cases. A list of infringements of the obligations laid down in the Regulation by which an online service provider and a web search engine provider commit an offence is set out. The maximum amount of the fine shall be fixed in the event of a breach of the obligation arising from the directly applicable European Union law. The maximum amount of penalty for offenses is set at a uniform limit of CZK 10 million. The possibility of imposing an administrative penalty in the form of publication of the decision on the offence is now laid down. Due to the technical nature of the amendment and the urgency of the incorporation into the Czech legal system of the European Union, the effectiveness of the law is exceptionally proposed on the 15th day following its publication and proposed discussion of the draft law so that the House can agree with it in the first reading in accordance with § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). I will then speak on this in the general debate to which I will then sign up, Madam President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u5	Thank you. I am now opening the general debate. It was first signed up by Mr Kolovratník and then by the Member and also by the rapporteur Novák. [[Newsletter from the table: I haven't logged in yet.]] You said you'd log in, update the application. However, first I will ask for the speech of Mr Kolovratník, who has already been duly applied for, and I also register an application with the priority right of President Schillerová. So please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long. I would like to object, after consultation at our club and after the debate, to the second SPD opposition club, on behalf of two member clubs, the club of the ANO movement and the SPD club or the veto pursuant to § 90 para. 3 against the discussion of the press in the so-called accelerated hearing pursuant to § 90 para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u7	Yes, thank you. I'm registering this objection. Mr Kolovratník, who has already been enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u8	Thank you for the floor, good afternoon, colleagues, so nicely gathered that the President has now announced, told the veto of the accelerated discussion, and I will actually follow up on that timeline. One other reason why, as an opposition to this, we want to ask that, when I dealt with the content of this law, I have come across one issue that is on the verge of, say, the electronic communications of the world of IT, if you want ICT, but also on the verge of law and legal interpretation of access to possible offences of players on the market, which not only this law, but also the GDPR law, on the protection of personal data, concerns, and it is an unresolved matter. In three or four minutes I will try to briefly describe and explain here at the plenary, and you will understand that this line is also one of the reasons to get it into the committees as a standard. I think that if the will in the responsible committees that are going to deal with this law is not exactly the subject of the Economic Committee, so to advise President Adamc - I will not suggest any extra discussion, it would probably be unnecessary, but in those gesture committees of yours what I am about to say, you could discuss and use, as it is said, that the law is open, that European implementation is there, let's say correct or complete that mistake. Let me remind you that the amendment, the implementation of European law that we have here, which is open, is working or responding to a European Commission regulation that wants to address two aspects or exactly three aspects. Firstly, to create a fairer business environment for smaller business entities that gain access to consumers through Internet intermediary service providers, secondly, to ensure a more effective possibility of redress and dispute resolution in the relations between providers of these services and business users of those services, and to thirdly it wants to create such a very positive predictable and innovative environment at European Union level for the regulation of providers of such internet services. We are talking here about the so-called single digital European market. So that's what the Minister said, what the rapporteur introduced, which is the carrier or the basic material of the novel. But what is the problem I want to talk about is that it is available from public sources: the problem is that it works with this law or is empowered to work with it by the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, which also solves other issues, including the violation of GDPR, and in real practice, in the interpretation practice that is actually going on, the fact that the spam, for sending spam, has so far fallen higher fines than the GDPR. As I said, the Office for the Protection of Personal Data, among other things, apart from all the main agendas that we all know more or less, is also concerned with the supervision of the so-called distribution of commercial communications, and the rules of these commercial communications are regulated by this present law of 480 of 2004. The attention of our translators and you Members deserves two points. First, the limits of the responsibility of the client to distribute commercial communications, which the Office of Personal Data Protection interprets quite widely today - and is not a criticism, it is a statement of the state - and secondly, the question of how the current application of Act No. 480, this law, at the same time in relation to GDPR, when these materials are often very close, they are very similar. [[15.20 hours]] I will try to illustrate the problem very briefly on one example that has actually happened. The Office for Personal Data Protection assessed a business case, some activity of a company located in the Czech Republic. She ordered a distribution of commercial communications abroad from another company. It happened to be a Ukrainian company. It's an example from last year, so it has nothing to do with the war. In the contract and in the communication, which the Czech company, the client, proved, really wanted to ensure that the distribution was carried out in accordance with Czech legislation, but unfortunately it also occurred during the distribution, during the application, implementation, activities that were contrary to the law. The initiative was given, and this is what the Office for Personal Data Protection assessed. In the contract with the actual sender, the customer agreed that the sender was liable for the legality of sending commercial communications, that therefore he gave the responsibility to him, and at the moment he learned that there had been an error, so he also pointed to it, he asked his supplier to correct it. Yet, and this is the gros of what I want to say, subsequently, in the opinion of both the Office for Personal Data Protection and the Administrative Court of the First Instance, it was not enough - whoever wanted to arrange this and do it, so according to the interpretation of the Court simply did little and did not do as it should. Unfortunately, neither the supervisory authority nor the court indicated what measures it should take. They didn't say in the interpretation or in the justification of the conviction, what he should do. In other words, they said what they did not consider sufficient, but they no longer said what measures should be taken by the orderer in the future. It's the interpretation practice or the judicature, so that others can do the same. And this is a problem, because if you're a little bit interested in the issue and you ask yourself if you can get a ticket for sending spam and for violating GDPR at the same time, it seems at this point that you can actually overlap the laws. At GDPR, I will remind you that the authorities, institutions and courts are working with Act No. 250/2016 on liability for offences. And just to give you an idea, you, who may not be in the detail, so for sending unsolicited commercial communications under the current regulation, or in the quotation marks of our or now under the present law, are at risk of a fine of up to CZK 10 million, but beware if you are judged by the violation of GDPR and for God's sake at the same time, so there are the fines much higher, multiplied. The fine may be up to EUR 20 million or up to 4% of the annual turnover of the group. The fines are really huge, very large, very high and threaten to be applied according to the interpretation practice. Bottom line, let me point out really factually, what is happening is that the relationship between regulating the electronic transmission of commercial communications and, in addition, the rules on the processing of personal data is not clear, is not explicit and is not based on judicature. As I said, supervision of both overlapping areas is carried out by the Office for Personal Data Protection, but organisations are actually at risk of being affected for their supplier's errors, for some company that does it for them, as I illustrated on that one anonymous brief illustration example, or that a significantly higher fine could be imposed on them in the event of a finding related to GDPR. It is simply legal uncertainty for businesses and entrepreneurs. So I just want to point out, in a good way, that there is a problem, that interpretational uncertainty, and I think that when the law is open, and that is an appeal to the petitioner, the minister or the rapporteur, when you work with it in the committees, try to grasp it here too, try to look at it in the form of an amendment. Honestly, I don't know what kind of guy I'm not in that much detail, but maybe those of you who are more concerned with this might come up with an idea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Marek Novák is now reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As I have already submitted, I will comment on the proposal for a hearing pursuant to Section 90 and actually why it vetoes. Given that this is the implementation of the regulation and the European Union leaves the Czech Republic relatively limited scope for the required legislative regulation, namely the designation of the supervisory authorities where the Czech Telecommunications Authority is proposed and compliance with the obligations laid down by the regulations as well as the resolution of sanctions as such, it is necessary to determine what sanctions, how to scale them. In fact, we have only heard one scale here in this proposal - a fine of up to CZK 10 million. This means that the Czech Telecommunications Authority does not actually have any scaling, and it himself points out that it would, in fact, be forced, more or less, to grant maximum fines for almost every offence. And although the content of the House press is rather brief, we really should not accept it without noticing without letting the debate take place. As you have heard colleague Kolovratník, who has presented you with another dimension that may occur with regard to GDPR, it is really necessary to supplement the law. I'm not saying fix, I'm saying refill, and you could say concretize. In particular, the setting of the limits of fines for offences against this regulation would really deserve an intense debate so that these sanctions are effective and dissuasive, but also, as the Minister said in the introductory words, proportionate. However, the proportionality of the proposal is more or less not foreseen, it is marked only by a word. As some major organisations are pointing out, the proposed amount of fines does not actually satisfy the last condition of proportionality. For illustration, for offense according to § 11 para. 3 (q) the entrepreneur is in danger of a fine of 10 million if he does not make available to the business user information on the functioning and effectiveness of mediation relating to his activities. The absurdity of the proposed amount of the fine will then result, for example, in comparison with the upper limit of the fine for nuclear power plant operators, which will not fulfil all legal obligations in the nuclear reactor operation in the exchange of nuclear fuel, or in the event of a breach of business obligations in capital markets on capital market supervision. Indeed, the fine is the same - CZK 10 million. The Czech Telecommunications Authority, which is to exercise supervision according to the draft law, pointed out the issue of a high margin without scaling according to the real harm of the offence as part of the commentary procedure, which is to exercise supervision according to the draft law and then to decide on these offences. Therefore, the transfer of the offence is offered in § 11 para. 5 of the proposed text from point (c) to point (b) - which, Minister, you can write now, because this is what the amendment may look like - thus reducing this wide range of fines possible. And as mentioned, the implementation period has passed. Yes, we're pressed for time. I, as a Member, but also as a rapporteur, am aware of this. I will be very happy and intensively working with the Ministry to level with everyone, not to say the shortcomings, but the necessary changes that the proposal needs. And I'm actually justifying the veto that fell on that section 90. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u11	Thank you. Now I do not see another logged in; this is still not the case, so the general debate is hereby closed. I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there is interest in the final words - Mr. Speaker? I see you do, so please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u12	Yes. Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to ask that the law be approved in that version, as approved by the Government, for two reasons. The first is the fact that the deadline for adaptation to the Czech legal system expired in July 2020. The Czech Republic is among the last five countries that have not yet adapted. If a business entity complains about the operation of the platform, and according to my information, we are already registering such complaints, there will be no effective regulation to be followed. Secondly, we are at risk of being penalized by the European Commission in infringement proceedings, the so-called infringement, because of late adaptation. I will, of course, comment on the fines. During the inter-ministerial procedure following the first submission of the proposal, the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic did not agree with the amount of fines. The Association for Internet Development also does not agree with the amount of fines at the moment. The maximum amount of penalty for offenses is set at a uniform maximum limit of CZK 10 million, which is fully comparable to similar cases regulated in other Czech legislation dealing with the protection of the market and competition, here in particular under Act No. 143/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Competition, where Regulation 2019/1150 aims, like this law, to ensure equal market conditions and the protection of competitors. I've got examples here for comparison, I'm not gonna repeat it all. And just for comparison with the other Member States of the European Union: in France, the daily fine is up to 0.1 per cent of the annual worldwide turnover, in the Netherlands and Romania it is 1 per cent of the annual turnover, Italy - a fine of 2 to 5 per cent of the annual turnover, in Greece it is EUR 2 million and in Luxembourg it is EUR 1 million. So for the above reasons and given the lack of conflict of the press, I'm asking for approval at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-05-ps2021-016-05-002-015.u13	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I greet you and we will continue to discuss this press. I merely recall that an objection has been raised to the hearing of the application pursuant to § 90 para. 3, which means that the motion will continue, his hearing. Now will I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word? It's not like that. We have therefore concluded the general debate, the final words have been held and we are now continuing the discussion. I am opening a detailed debate which has not yet been heard, so that I am ending a detailed debate. I wonder if the Minister is once again interested in the final word? [[No.]] The rapporteur? It's not like that. Let's take a vote. In this case, no proposal has been made for repayment or rejection, and we will therefore address the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'm gonna put you on hold, and I'm gonna have to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I note that the President of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case and we would now proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In the vote number 98, 153 Members and Members, for 153, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. [[The Minister and the rapporteur are leaving the rapporteur's table.]] Gentlemen, we have yet to vote. Yes, thank you. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, so I ask, does anyone have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? Yes, is there a suggestion? No, it's not. And now I'm done discussing this press and I'm done with the first reading. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. And so we have decided that this press will only be directed to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I have a statement here that, with a replacement card number 32, Mrs Barbora Urbanová will be voting. And now we will proceed to discuss the next bill, and that is
