ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on Roadways, as amended, and Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws (Act on liability insurance from the operation of the vehicle), as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended /German press 76/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Martin Kupka, the Minister of Transport, will present the proposal. Minister, take the floor. And please keep it quiet in the hall so that the Minister can have some peace of mind to present his words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government is submitting for discussion a draft law amending the Road Act, as amended, the Act on the Conditions of Traffic of Vehicles on the Road, as well as the Act on Liability Insurance for Damage caused by the Traffic of the Vehicle and amending certain other related acts. The proposed bill is aimed almost exclusively at implementing European Union legislation into national law, namely the Road Infrastructure Safety Management Directive, including the amendment to this Directive, the Directive on the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and facilitating the cross-border exchange of information concerning unpaid road charges in the Union and subsequent directly applicable regulations. The draft law can be divided into three areas from the point of view of its content. First - safety management of selected roads in their design, construction and operation, second area - provision of European electronic toll service and third area - provision of information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations. In the field of road safety management, there is an extension of the road circuit covered by the various safety instruments. In addition to the roads included in the trans-European road network, all state-owned infrastructure, i.e. motorways and first-class roads, as well as the union co-financed sections of second- and third-class roads owned by the regions, will be newly covered. In addition to the road safety audit, the initial evaluation of the project will be carried out at the very beginning before the individual procedures under the construction law. Furthermore, road owners concerned by the safety assessment will carry out every five years an assessment of the various sections of these roads in terms of the risk of accidents and the severity of their impact and assess them as high, medium or low levels of safety. The results will be sent to the Ministry of Transport, which will then publish a summary of the whole Republic, and will also be required to implement corrective measures as a result of the relevant evaluation. In the area of the provision of the European electronic toll service, this is the second area that the amendment regulates, there are partial changes in the obligations of the provider of the European electronic toll service. For example, coverage of all Member States of the European Union which have electronic toll systems in place will no longer be required, but only at least four such Member States. Furthermore, it is clearly stated that the provider of the European electronic toll service is not obliged to pay tolls in relation to vehicles whose electronic equipment is registered as blocked or is expressly subject to its right to remuneration from the operator of the electronic toll system. Furthermore, an obligation is introduced for the operator of the electronic toll system to keep accounts and funds relating to the operation of the electronic toll system separately from other activities. The technical requirements for the elements of the electronic toll system and the conformity assessment procedures and assessment of suitability for use of these elements shall also be specified. The draft law also provides for the obligation of the Ministry of Transport to publish selected data relating to the operation of electronic tolls and the provision of a European electronic toll service. In the field of the provision of information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations, it is proposed to lay down the obligation of the customs office to send a suspect of an offence consisting of the use of a tolled road without payment of a time fee or toll, together with a notice of initiation or an information form to be drawn up in the official language of the Member State of registration of the vehicle. The only change that does not come from Union law is the abolition of the obligation to equip a vehicle with an electronic device of the electronic toll system, i.e. the so-called OBU unit, if it is already apparent from its registration mark that it is a vehicle exempted from charging, that is if it has a military registration mark, an electric vehicle registration mark or a special registration mark of a historical vehicle. [[12.40 hours]] The bill has already been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in its previous term of office, but this legislative draft has not been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for the support of the proposed bill amending the Road Act and the Act on the Conditions of Traffic of Vehicles on the Road, and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, on 9 December 2021, the Government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a Government Bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on Roadways, as amended, and Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads, and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and amending certain related laws, as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, as print number 76. This government bill abolishes the obligation to equip vehicles with a military registration mark, a registration mark of an electric vehicle or a special registration mark of a historical vehicle with electronic equipment in the electronic toll system. The amendment follows the request made by the Ministry of Defence in the framework of an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, as it is already apparent from their specific registration marks that the use of tolled roads by the vehicles concerned is not subject to payment of tolls. To put it simply, military vehicles and historical vehicles have enough different brands to make it clear that tolls do not have to be paid. All other proposals are exclusively the implementation of the provisions of the European Union, namely Directive 2019/1936 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 amending Directive 2008/96 EC on road infrastructure safety management and Directive 2019/520 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 on the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on non-payment of road charges in the Union. The deadlines for the implementation of the Directives were up to 19 October 2021 and 17 December 2021. The proposal, following the legislation of the European Union, regulates three headings. Firstly, the safety management of selected roads in their design, construction and operation, secondly, the provision of a European electronic toll service, thirdly, the provision of information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations. I will now make a closer statement on these three areas of adjustment. Safety management of selected roads during their design, construction and operation. In November 2009, the Infrastructure Safety Directive was adopted and the Act amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, and other related laws, and in addition the Decree amending Decree No. 104/1997 Coll., implementing the Road Act, as amended. At the same time, the transposition clause was aimed, in accordance with the Infrastructure Safety Directive, only at road roads included in the trans-European road network. Those provisions have been introduced into the national legal system by a directive of the Institute for Infrastructure Safety Audit, which is subject to the design and construction of roads in four stages. Furthermore, the Law introduced the classification of sections of relevant roads into sections with a high number of fatal accidents, as well as the classification of sections of these roads with a high potential for reducing the costs incurred as a result of accidents. The latter classification is followed up by mandatory inspections of problematic sections of roads, resulting in the adoption of corrective measures. In October 2019, an amendment to this Directive was adopted, to which the Government's draft law responds. The proposed modifications are intended to improve road safety characteristics. The amendments are to apply not only to road infrastructure included in the trans-European road network, but also to motorways, main roads and sections of other roads outside urban areas, which are completed using European Union funds, in simple terms, also to roads in regional administration. Changes would allow more appropriate identification of road sections where there are the greatest opportunities to improve safety and where targeted interventions should lead to the greatest improvements. In addition, action plans will be drawn up for relevant sections of the road throughout the territory of each Member State of the European Union, which will include graduated corrective actions according to priorities. The draft law introduces a definition of the concept of road road subject to safety assessment, which is subsequently consistently used in the framework of the regulation of the various instruments used to manage road safety. Concerning point 2 of the adaptation, the provision of a European electronic toll service: in April 2004 the Directive on the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems in the Community was adopted. The aim of the directive was to ensure the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems within the internal market of the European Union as well as the introduction of a European electronic toll service covering the entire European Union road network to which tolls are paid. The benefit for users of this service was to conclude only one contract with the provider of the European Electronic Toll Service, which was to allow the use of a single on-board device used in all areas of the European road network subject to toll collection and payment of tolls by the provider of the European electronic toll service. Following the adoption of that Directive, Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, other related laws and also Decree No. 470/2012, on the use of roads charged with tolls. The concept of a European electronic toll service itself is fairly well defined by the provisions of § 22b para. 1 Road Act, which states that it is a set of activities and services which, in accordance with the relevant European Union regulation, enable easy interconnection of the electronic toll system in the Member States of the European Union and the continuous use of tolled roads by road vehicles in all electronic toll systems in those States, using a single electronic device and providing a comprehensive toll to a person who has issued a European electronic toll service and electronic equipment. [[12.50 hours]] In March 2019, a directive was adopted on the interoperability of toll systems, which repealed and replaced the original Directive on the interoperability of toll systems, to which the Government's draft law responds. The European Electronic Toll Service is a market-based service and therefore its providers should not be obliged to provide services throughout the European Union at this time. In order to provide a European electronic toll service, the coverage of all electronic toll collection systems will be sufficient for at least four Member States of the European Union. European electronic toll service providers should pay the toll collector all tolls to be paid by their customers and should be entitled to a fair remuneration. Member States should be required to collect and publish all relevant data relating to this service in publicly accessible national registers. On point 3 of the adjustments to the provision of information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations: in March 2015, a directive was adopted by the European Parliament to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on road safety traffic offences. As is already apparent from the name of this Regulation, the exchange of information between Member States foreseen by the Directive concerns only selected infringements contrary to road traffic rules, the purpose of which was to facilitate the enforcement of sanctions imposed on offences committed with a vehicle registered in a Member State of the European Union other than the Member State in which the offence was committed. This Union regulation was mainly transposed into Act No. 56/2001 Coll., on the conditions of operation of vehicles on roads, and on the amendment of Act No. 168/1990 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle, and amending certain related laws, as amended by Act No. 307/1999 Coll., as amended, which regulates in particular automated exchange of data on road vehicles, their owners, operators, which it provides Ministry of Transport for the benefit of the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union and for the benefit of Czech entities, Police of the Czech Republic, Customs Administration, Fire Rescue Corps, Municipal Authorities with extended scope and Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic, and on Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, which regulates, in particular, the obligation of the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended competence to send an information form in the official language of the Member State of the European Union to the person suspected of committing any of the selected offences consisting of a violation of the rules on road traffic, to whom a stay in another Member State of the European Union should be understood, together with a notice of initiation. Problems with identifying offenders, non-residents, in connection with electronic toll collection systems prevent the further development of the system and wider application of the principles - the user pays and the polluter pays on the roads of the European Union. Therefore, information relating to offences of non-payment of any road charges in the European Union is to be exchanged. In the Czech Republic, these fees are toll and time fee, in other words a motorway stamp. The proposal will increase the cost of assessing the safety of state-owned roads, as they will be extended, but new infrastructure safety assessment costs will also be borne by regions as second and third class road owners for whose construction, reconstruction or repair the European Union's resources have been or are to be used. In the area of the provision of the European electronic toll service, the new costs borne by public budgets are not foreseen. In the area of providing information on the absence of payment of a time fee or toll in cross-border situations, costs are not expected to be high, but more effective administrative punishment could increase revenue. The draft law is supplemented by transitional provisions. The initial assessment of the intention and the conduct of the road safety audit will not apply to buildings for which the relevant documentation has been processed before the application of this Act, except for the audit for communications included in the trans-European road network. First assessment of roads subject to safety assessment pursuant to § 18m of Act No. 13/1997 Coll. perform the infrastructure owner in 2024. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the first day of the calendar year following the publication of the Act, taking into account the already existing transposition period. An exception shall be the selected provisions, which shall take effect on 1 July 2023 and 1 October 2023. The later efficiency on 1 July 2023 is due, on the one hand, to the fact that at the relevant amendment point it responds to changes caused by the new construction law - Act No. 283/2021, the later effectiveness is further proposed for the provisions on 1 October 2023 governing the authorisation to issue implementing legislation, which will be based on the European Union methodology, which will be issued only in June 2023. In connection with the adoption of this bill, Decree No. 104/1997 Coll., implementing the Road Act, as amended. Now closer to the future changes in that decree, as they closely follow up on this transposition proposal. Article 18g (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 11 of the Road Act, as amended by the proposal and its amendments: Decree No. 104/1997 Coll., which is implemented by the Roads Act, as amended, will newly modify the criteria for assessing the expected impacts on road safety pursuant to § 18g para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) the Road Act. The legislation will be based on Annex I, point 2 to Directive 2008/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November on road infrastructure safety management, as amended by its amendment, Directive 2019/1936 of the European Parliament and of the Council (?) COUNCIL DIRECTIVE of 23 October 2019 amending Directive 2008/96/EC on road infrastructure safety management. [[13.00 hours]] Article 18m (1) (b) (ii) 5 of the Road Act, as amended by the proposal for its amendment: Decree No. 104/1997 Coll., which is implemented by the Road Act, as amended, will further modify the content of the assessment and the criteria for evaluation of the assessed sections of the roads. In determining the content, account will be taken of Annex III to Directive 2008/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November on road infrastructure safety management, as amended by its amendment. Directive 2019/1936 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 amending Directive 2008/96/EC on road infrastructure safety management. [[Regardless of the speakers, the majority of Members are speaking loudly among themselves.]] As regards the criteria for assessing the sections of the road under consideration, the draft law assumes that the sections of the road under consideration are assessed in terms of the risk of accidents and the severity of their impacts. The evaluation is then the basis for categorizing sections on sections with high, medium or low levels of safety. The details of this evaluation will be the subject of the regulation in the decree. With effect from 1 October 2023, Decree No. 104/1997 Coll., which is implemented by the Road Act, as amended, is further established...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u5	I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u6	Thank you. So I'm going to start that sentence again: with effect from 1 October 2023 it will be in Decree No. 104/1997 Coll., which is implemented by the Road Act, as amended, has also established the method of determining the sections of roads subject to safety assessment with a high number of accidents in which there has been killing or serious injury to health in relation to the intensity of traffic on the road. The method for determining these sections will be based on the European Commission's methodology for determining the criteria on the basis of which infrastructure with a high number of major traffic accidents in relation to the intensity of transport is to be determined. This methodology will be issued until approximately June 2023. Article 18n (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 6 of the Road Act, as amended by the proposal for its amendment: Decree No. 104/1997 Coll., which is implemented by the Road Act, as amended, will also regulate the content of a detailed inspection of the road section with a low level of safety. The content of the detailed inspection will be based on Annex IIa to Directive 2008/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November on road infrastructure safety management, as amended by its amendment. Article 43d (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 4 of the Road Act, as amended by the proposal for its amendment: the implementing legislation newly sets out the model of the information form attached to the notice of initiation or the order issued as the first act in the proceedings sent to the driver or to the operator of the vehicle registered in another Member State of the European Union in relation to the offence involving the use of the tolled infrastructure without payment of the time fee or the insecurity of the toll payment or similar infringement leading to or which may result in the absence of such reimbursement. The model of the information form will contain the elements contained in § 43d para. 2 of the Road Act. Annex II to Directive 2019/520 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 on the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems and facilitating the cross-border exchange of information on non-payment of road charges in the Union will also be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u7	I thank the rapporteur, and at this time I am opening a general debate, which Mr Martin Kolovratník has signed up to. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u8	Good lunchtime, colleagues, I will be here in 30 minutes as President of the Election Commission, and now we are in the debate on individual laws, namely the Transport Act, the amendment to the Road Act, the European implementation. I would also like to make a reasonable and factual comment on only one part of the implementation of this legislation, which we are here to assess at the moment at first reading. He has already presented this matter to a large extent by the Minister, so I will also adjust my speech so as not to delay you unnecessarily, not to repeat what was said by the Minister. But what I want to do a little bit more is just the part, one of the few changes that we will implement in Czech legislation, and that is the increase in safety and the increase in audit safety for so-called... or the extension of this security from the trans-European road network and to all other communications. It is important not only for those of you and citizens who deal with the so-called BESIP, road safety, road safety, but it is also important for representatives of self-government, especially the regions, which are to some extent affected financially in terms of the budget and the costs of modernisation and reconstruction of the second and third class network. The whole issue briefly, as it has already been presented, is that so far the regulation of the European Union is from 2009, when Europe - it is in that kind of money-giving style - has said, and I think it is quite logical and correct that the trans-European road network projects, which are international and connects our Republic with abroad, with the surrounding area, when it gives its money - mostly from the OPD programme, from the Operational Programmes Transport - that it wants investors, builders, in our case the Road and Motorway Directorate, to focus very targeted on safety, safety elements on communication, whether in the form of a security audit during the project, when creating, at all when drawing the communication, and then when assessing the safety of point defects of individual components of passive safety on communication during its operation. As I said, this has worked since 2009 and the European Commission has evaluated, and rightly - it is a number of studies, a number of exact measurements - that this really works, that the communication where this was used, in terms of statistics, in terms of long-term developments in them, is less of an accident rate. I would probably uselessly explain to those of you who do not deal with traffic, the fewer accidents, the less externalities, the external costs, whether for accidents themselves, for damage disposal, so, of course, for treatment, for repairing the health consequences after accidents, and of course I am not talking about the worst, i.e. fatal accidents and possible costs in such an accident. For this reason, Europe has decided to extend this requirement - one can say for almost all the communication we are building in the Czech Republic, except for the local ones in cities, it is in Section 18g where we can read that, in addition to the trans-European road network, this European Commission will also require for motorways, first-class roads, or sections of second-class and third-class roads - these are precisely the regional ones - if EU funds are used for them. In the practice that we have here in the Czech Republic, mostly these are the so-called IROP programs, which means not the money that the SFDI state sends to the regions - when I remind them, it's always around 3 to 4 billion since 2015, - but it's the so-called IROPs, the projects that the regions ask for themselves. That means, firstly, it's an extension of the network, and secondly, it's a more accurate, better definition of the assessment of the security audit. Paragraph 3 describes what is all part of the initial evaluation of the purpose of the communication. I'm not gonna hold you back, I'm not gonna read that section long enough. But what's important, every A has a B, I already indicated it at the beginning of my performance. It will manifest itself in costs, in increased costs. Of course, we could argue or use a proverb about a half-empty or half-full glass. These costs aren't dramatic, they don't move in billions, they don't move in hundreds of millions, but according to gross calculations, they're available to you in the explanatory report to the law, they're going to be in the order of units, maybe little tens of millions. [[13.10 hours]] And that is why - now a quick excursion into those numbers: the network that has been subject to these stricter requirements until now, in the superior trans-European network in the Czech Republic, it was 1,210 kilometres of motorways and 890 kilometres of first-class roads. Now that the new assessment is being applied, as we imagined in the speech by the Minister and actually the rapporteur, and as I briefly repeated it, the extension will cover all the motorways and first-class roads, which means that it extends to 7 100 kilometers. It's about 1,230 kilometers of highways and less than 5,830 kilometers of first-class roads. And let me remind you that the road circuit is also going to expand by the twos and the threes. The Ministry in preparation of this law - I will remind you that it was discussed during previous governments, it was sent here to the House at the beginning of December, implementation has, I think, the deadline until 17 December, so we are not so much late, and now I can inform you, my colleagues have indicated that we would ask for a shortening of the deadline - there is no conflict. So I'm sure from our side we're gonna take down the shortening so that we don't hold this thing up here in the House and drag the implementation out. But I'm going back to the numbers. It was communicated last year with the Regional Association and we are talking about some 5 225 kilometers of second and third-class roads co-financed by European Union funds in the regions, so it is necessary to know and to say that if we accept this, there will be an increase in the cost of assessing safety for both state-owned roads, as well as for second and third-class roads, where costs will go beyond individual regions. It's verifiable, measurable, because these audits are already being done today, especially on the trans-European network. It costs about CZK 5,000 per kilometer of the road. It is logical, therefore, that if I am talking about the audit of road safety, this means new buildings, the increase will concern precisely those that have not been subject to it so far, for construction activities, for new buildings or for modernizations. That won't be such a significant impact. A little bit more but it will be for existing communications, which means that it is a safety assessment, it is continuous in some cyclical return to the state in which the communication is and how it suits or does not satisfy. The amount there is lower, unitary, it is CZK 2,000 to CZK 3,000 per kilometre of the road, but we have to calculate that the total network, as I said, is over 7,000 kilometers, so here we are talking about some CZK 15 to 20 million, which will be financed from the state budget. And I said that a moment ago, on the one hand, we are talking about the low tens of millions of crowns, which in the total budget of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure of less than 130 billion is the amount, perhaps I can say, small, negligible, on the other hand, such small amounts when added up more, so they can already feel, can be seen. And I don't want to talk too much here, it's part of another topic in terms of how prices on the construction market are getting more expensive - what's going on in the whole sector, that's just something to remember. And I can't forget the edges here until the third time. Many of you are also regional representatives or are acting in some way in those municipalities. I calculated it roughly - for those regions, if we're talking about the 5,000 crowns per kilometer, and we're counting that it's less than 6,000 kilometers, 5,500, so the total amount is going to be some 25 to 30 million crowns. Here maybe, if the minister would like, I'll ask him if this has been discussed with the Regional Association. I will remind you, and I have already said that since 2015, then minus two governments back from the previous parliamentary term, they have always received some amount from the SFDI according to how the budget was based. It was about 3 to 4 billion calculated between individual regions. There's always been such criticism that it's too late, that it's not until sometime during the year. We've already talked about this here this winter in discussing both the government's trust and the draft state budget. From the opposition's role, I acknowledge and very carefully observe the relatively ambitious commitment of the new coalition in the programme statement that the regions will therefore receive this money by means of a public promise. It should be CZK 6 billion, but the question is whether it has been discussed with the regions in any way that costs will simply rise, that Europe will demand it. That's one thing I'd like to ask, or maybe even warn her to speak here, and another thing. What I know from practice, what we see in the field is few people, there are few designers, there are few experts on land valuation, on the preparation of trade elaborates and so on, so this is good to hear. This will mean relatively high demands on the higher capacity of auditors, security experts and communication designers. Of course, we can say it here, we probably won't make it into a technical school somewhere more into the practice of these people, but, as I said, it's the kind of B that needs to be said on this subject. However, as I have announced, it does not call for, at least at this time, any request or proposal for an additional amendment that should come in the hearing, and we will certainly return to the Economic Committee. But, as I said, if the deadline is reduced, I think there's no problem with that and we'll definitely support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u9	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Another is Mr Adamec reporting for the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u10	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Minister, I will respond very briefly to the debate that has just been held here. Perhaps an introduction to such a phrase: Every progress is worth something. I think if it increases the safety of communications, that's right. On the other hand, I must also say that this bill was already being prepared by the previous government, so I do not understand a little bit about the fact that it will cost, because that must have been taken into account even when it was being prepared. That's just what I'm saying to the opposition representatives here, that this is actually a proposal that the previous government has already submitted or prepared. So I believe that today, in this case, you will propose a guarantee committee to the economic committee. I'm all for ten, unlike the copyright law. And as you have seen here, the debate has already been quite extensive on the length of the contributions, not on the number of speakers, so I believe that the economic committee will win the pragmatism and the view, I would say, of the economy, and that the economic committee will deal with this very well. I would like to remind you that I am okay with the shortened deadline for discussion, but that we will definitely propose some amendments, and I would like to say here about one that unfortunately failed to push past parliamentary term, and this was the movement of machinery during the reconstruction of communications on existing roads, when companies had to advance to ask for permission, which was issued with a month's delay, and it made huge problems in terms of time when weather was not for construction and the like, so those companies then risked driving those machines. When they were caught in this act, they paid high, hundreds of thousands of fines. And the fact that it was done that they could ask for one permit for the whole season, I think that this is a completely unnecessary and bureaucratic step and that it needs to be removed. I have heard that there will be other amendments. I don't want to talk about them unless I run out of them on the economic committee. And I definitely think that this is the implementation of the European directives. I think it's a step in the right direction, even if it costs money. Once again, when you look at how much it costs to build new communications and how much security audits and all these issues that are described in this directive will cost us, this is not something that should discourage us from boycotting the European regulation, the European directive. So I'm gonna say I agree to shorten the deadline. I think that we all know what we are going to put forward when we table amendments. It'll be ready. It's no problem. The deadline has passed, so let us do everything we can to ensure that this implementation is carried out by our Parliament as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention, and I believe that what has been the longer debate here in plenary will be shorter for the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u11	Mr. Ambassador, thank you. Mr Kolovratník, Mr Kolohradík, came forward with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u12	It's true, Mr. Chairman. It's true, I admit, and to be correct and to be recorded, I wouldn't want my performance to be perceived as - I don't know - deliberately obstructive or opposition, that I'm criticizing it. It came during the previous government, ad 1. Ad 2, I don't know that we're here to say that we don't want to do this or we don't - we're a sovereign, we might, but of course - I mean, a decent word - it would be stupid, it would be nonsense, so yes, and I told it at the beginning of my performance. Everything costs something, but the statistics, the figures about the externalities, how much each accident costs after the most serious consequences, so they are clear, the previous governments - and this is not political - have always somehow been opposed to BESIP, to reduce accidents, to vision zero, and so on and so forth. I think we agree on this, the opposition and the coalition, and that it will have this support. And the amendment that the President has announced - I remember it, again, it has logic, but I also think that there will definitely be a consensus. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u13	Thank you and the Minister has entered into the general debate. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u14	Mr President, on the one hand, I wanted to sign up for a proposal to shorten the deadline for discussing this bill in committees for 30 days, and I just wanted to respond briefly to those security audits. These are already being carried out today, often made by investors simply out of their pure self-interest to achieve the highest quality in a significant investment, even in terms of the safety of the operation. In the case of activities, actions subsidized by the European Union, those audits are often already a necessary condition as they justify the investment at the same time, and in the context of the discussion and evaluation of the grant applications, they are simply justified, positive points for any decision. At the same time, I want to add that the amendment was properly discussed with the Association of Regions, with all the regions, because it will simply have a financial impact on them as well, so they took note. From the point of view of regional practice - here I dare to add from real life, from real practice, that even checks on how safety communication works are undoubtedly appropriate, contribute to greater safety and are already in place today where the regions carry out proper supervision of roads. The correct management of the ground, as well as the control and accident rates, the number of accidents, are simply criteria for the order of investments in the given territory. And it's a step that's right, and it's headed in this direction to the proper care of the entire road network.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u15	I thank the Minister and we are still in the general debate. This is the rapporteur, Mrs Ožanová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u16	Once again, hello, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for this press, I would like to support the proposal of the Minister of Transport to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I believe that this is a good proposal in the light of the implementation deadlines, and it needs to be supported constructively. As regards the proposal made by Mr Adamec, the chairman of the Economic Committee, he pointed out that one amendment is being prepared - I understand that bureaucratic aspects need to be removed there, but there is also a need for some caution, because they are usually self-propelled machines which are not primarily intended for road traffic, and from the point of view of road safety, they need to move as little as possible along the roads as they are intended solely for work in the fields. But I would really like to encourage a reduction in the bureaucratic burden, just to take into account the road safety aspect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u17	I thank the rapporteur and see if anyone else wants to join the general debate. If no one, that concludes the general debate. And now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion, first we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'll take the liberty of calling in colleagues from the lobby. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I do not see here, which is why we will proceed to the vote. I'll check you out before that, and we can apply again. So we can proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote, and who's in favour? Who opposes this being directed to the Economic Committee? Voting 37, registered 136, for 133, versus 1. Result: accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. So does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees for discussion? I do not see, in which case we can take a vote in terms of the proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. We all know what we're going to vote on. Do we want to check out? I see there's an interest in signing off, so I'll take the liberty of checking you out and signing you up again. In the meantime, I will repeat that we will be voting at this point on a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. We all know what we're voting on, a 30-day deadline. And I'm putting it to a vote. Who is to shorten the deadline to 30 days? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 38, 150 logged in, for 147, against no one. Result: accepted. And I'm done with this point. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I see here... please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I voted in favour of the 37th vote, but I'm against it at the junkyard. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u19	Thank you. I repeat, there is no question of voting. So that concludes this point, and given that we have an election point in two minutes, at this point, I am interrupting the House's meeting until 13.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-23-ps2021-016-02-005-006.u20	Good afternoon, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government. Now we have fixed ballot points, the election block. I see that the President of the Election Commission is here, so I can open the first of this block. It's a point number.
