ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the next day of the adjourned 35th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and report who's applying for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Adámková Věra from 9 am to 11.15 p.m. for reasons of work, Andrej Babiš all day - personal reasons, Babišová Andrea all day - medical reasons, Bačíková Jana all day - working reasons, Bělica Josef all day - working reasons - working reasons, Bělohlávková Romana from 12 am - working reasons, Bělor Roman whole day - family reasons, Brázdil Milan whole day - working reasons, Burešš Jana the whole day - working reasons, Wenzl Lenka the Milan day - working reasons, Feranec Milan the whole day - medical reasons, Flek Josef the whole day - medical reasons, Gazdík Petr from 11 hours - medical reasons, Hájek Jiří from 9 hours to 12 hours - working reasons, Havel Matěj Ondřej from 13 to 14 - working Skopeček, Hofmann Jan the whole day - personal reasons, Janulík Miloslav the whole day - working reasons, Juchelka Alešš the whole day - working reasons, Štolpa David the whole day - working reasons - working reasons, Knechtová Lenka the whole day - medical reasons, Kohoutek Tomáš the Šebelová Michaela - foreign travel, Kolář Ondřej from 9 to 12 hours - working reasons, Levko Jarmila the whole day - working days - working reasons - Pastuchová reasons, Mádlová Ivana from 11.30 - working reasons, Metnar Lubomír from 9 to 11 - medical reasons, Němečková Crkvenjaš the whole working day Zdenka the whole procedural špičák - working day, Family Julius - family'sickáška the whole procedural reasons - family'sickášová, Ochová the whole Helena day - working day - working day - working day - Oulehlová Renata Relová the whole procedural reasons - Válková day - working day - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - Svoboda days - Pavel days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working žáček - Pavel days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - Kasal days - working days - working days - working days He apologizes from the Ministers: Balaš Vladimír all day - health reasons, Baxa Martin all day - foreign travel, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel from 9 to 14 - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna all day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena all day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan all day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít all day - working reasons, Síkela Jozef all day - working reasons - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal all day - working reasons and Válek Vlastimil whole day for working reasons. So many apologies. Today's negotiations should start with firmly placed points: paragraph 110, House press 215, State service, third reading; paragraph 116, House press 174, on significant sales force, third reading; paragraph 127, House press 203, on international cooperation in tax administration, third reading; paragraph 159, House press 212, final account 2021; paragraph 172, House document 1265, timetable for the state budget 2023; point 113, House printing 150, entry and import of cultural goods into EU customs territory, third reading; point 118, House printing 213, on consumer protection, third reading. I declare that points 111, 112 and 114 of the approved programme, which are House prints 67, on Antarctica, 139, digital instruments, and 207, civil aviation, can be discussed at third reading. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. And now I ask if any of the Members are interested in speaking up because of a change in the approved agenda of the 35th meeting? Looks like he has - I've got a priority right logged in here... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Colleagues and colleagues, please keep it down, thank you. President Alena Schillerová is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me get off with something that happened here in silence yesterday, in silence, in complete silence, and we're in a completely unprecedented situation. I'll justify it first, and then I'll say a draft point. I believe it is not against the Rules of Procedure. This week, the current government coalition has declared to us how little it means to her a legislative framework. This week we watched the coalition add to the budget for 2023 - on Monday the government approved it - an incredible virtual 150 billion to income, nothing unsubstantiated, without legislative support, without the approval of the Chamber of Deputies, without the bill. This move alone in recent periods would be enough for the immediate appeal of the Minister of Finance, but this government coalition seems to know no shame. But I want to talk about an amendment to the 2022 budget about what happened here in silence yesterday. The entire election campaign of the current cabinet of Petr Fiala was supposedly based on how budgetaryly irresponsible our government was. I remember discussing this, although we voted here together with the ODS to cancel the supergross wage, increase the budgetary determination of taxes, increase the discount on the taxpayer, which in itself made about 90 billion revenue slumps on the revenue side, so we still heard this, even though we were struggling with the covid, with the invisible enemy, and we did not know how long the economy would be restricted. We fought a decline in the economy in 2020 minus 5.5 percent. [[9.10 hours]] I remember how in the last crisis, in 2008, 2009, 2012, how it was necessary to implement, how huge cuts were made, how the economy was strangled. I remember the opposition, then the opposition, today's government coalition, saying: You have to cut, you have to cross out 100 billion, we can do it, you can't do it, we can do it. Instead of dealing with the crisis that has come, and I'm not saying that the crisis isn't here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please lower your voice so that the President can make her proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u4	...you began to degrade yourself with unnecessary accounting tricks. How to take 14 billion from health insurance companies this year to get them back next year, and how to cut off the mandatorial expenses, because the Finance Minister already knew he would be preparing a budget amendment, where he would have to return them again. Not to mention the fact that the current government coalition has completely, completely given up, I would dare to say the folk word for nothing, any consolidation of public finances. In the submission of this government, the investigation is a media term, a kind of gold grail that is constantly mentioned, but which no one has ever seen. Any savings proposals that we would expect from the government coalition have been forgotten, and instead we have nothing but empty talk about how they are planning to return to 3% of GDP in the coming periods, in 2024 to 2.6 percent of GDP, or up to 2.3 percent of GDP in 2025. The fact that we are at 3.8% of GDP this year is somehow forgotten by the Minister of Finance Stanjura. I heard a lot about our pandemic budgets here yesterday. I am saying this quite clearly that, from the point of view of public budgets, today's situation cannot be compared with the health crisis. For one thing, our government had to take completely unprecedented measures in the form of de facto shutting down a large part of the economy in order to protect citizens against the spread of pandemic disease. For this reason, of course - I repeat again - GDP has historically fallen to minus 5.5 percent, historically the largest decline. Today, tax revenues are rising as a result of extreme inflation figures, but also as a result of economic growth. The difference between our budget for 2022 and the current amendment is greater than 127 billion. By 127.4 billion, this five-wheeler on the revenue side has an extra one. Not to mention growing dividends, especially the half-state enterprise CEZ. Moreover, we have reduced the tax burden. Again, I remind you - super gross wages, real estate tax. [[Reservations from ODS that she also voted in favour of this.]] Yes, the ODS voted to abolish it with us, and I am frankly reminding you. And its abolition of 14 billion health care. We have also increased, I remind you again, the funds of municipalities and regions, where we have moved 27 billion within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. After yesterday, my dear colleagues and my fellow Members, it seems that after the second reading of the amendment - when we are at third reading - the deficit will not be 330 billion, but the deficit will be 375 billion, 375 billion! This government coalition has read the amendments - I assume they are talking to each other, that there was no pioneering action by individuals - has read the amendments. At least the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs had the courage to come forward here and present his amendment, which increases the deficit by 7 billion. I do not understand how the budget is being processed, how it is being discussed, how it is discussed when the FPSV 7 billion is missing - but at least he has justified it here, although, of course, I am subject to great criticism - unlike the silently tabled amendment by Members, Ivan Adamec, Chairman of the Economic Committee for ODS and Mr STAN Tomáš Müller, who have quietly applied to an amendment that increases the deficit by 38 billion - so 38 + 7 = 45 - without being justified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u5	I'm sorry, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, please keep it down. Thank you, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u6	So it's after the municipal elections and the coalition's come clean. The deficit is 375 billion. Do you remember the big talk, the rumor that we still have it lower than the government of Andrej Babiš? Our deficit was 376,6 billion, and we did not have more than 127 billion more revenue. We provided money, increased the defense department by 4.5 billion. We spent 1.5 billion on transport, I think, compared to the previous year, education by 3 billion more, agriculture was supposed to get by 2.5 billion more, we proposed 1 billion more in health, and of course we didn't touch the money for state insured people, also sport by almost 1 billion, we had an additional 400 million on the Technological Agency and so on. So that's the whole truth, that's the whole truth. It is after the elections and the coalition presents - because I think these amendments from the workshop and from the coalition's pen will pass - a deficit of 375 billion. Again, the government of Andrej Babiš, which did not have inflationary income, submitted a draft budget with a deficit of 376,6 billion. So this is the whole truth, and I propose an explanation by the Minister of Finance on the draft amendment to the budget for 2022, because yesterday in public space - I saw it on Czech Television on the Event - it was still there to avoid what kind of deficit will be and what amendments will be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u7	Thank you, too. Are you suggesting a new point, Madam President, with some kind of inclusion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u8	I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President. Yes, as in item number 1 of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u9	Thank you, too. The President has proposed a new point of the Minister of Finance's explanation of the draft budget amendment for 2022, with the fact that he wants to include it as item number 1 at today's meeting. I have now signed up here with the priority right of President Radim Fiala, Mrs Klára Dostálová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am essentially going to propose a similar point, which will be called the State Budget Deficit for 2022. I just want to pause by hearing here a year ago during the reign of Andrej Babiš from the opposition at that time, how the government of Andrej Babiš is budgetaryly irresponsible, how they are drawing up up inflationary budgets. I say, of course, that was true at the time. However, the year has met, we have another government here, we have a government here that said that it will be budgetaryly responsible, that the budget for it will be the most important thing, that it will not be as miserable as the government of Andrej Babiš - and, behold, I believe that it is even worse, because the deficit of the state budget has exactly the same as the government proposed by Andrej Babiš, but has a higher income of at least 120 billion. And I would say that, even on the revenue side of that budget, there are revenues that are not yet legally approved, that is, the 150 billion you wrote down there, you just don't have a legal approval yet. [[9.20 hours]] That means I'm disillusioned. Journalists often ask what would be important to us as opposition to the state budget deficit, if 330 billion, if less than 300 billion, if 350 billion. And I always tell them that it's important that the state budget gets into black numbers within a short period of time. Not only isn't this going to happen in the medium term, but it's starting to look like it's even worse than it was in Andrej Babiš's government a year ago. So that's the anti-inflationary budget, that's the anti-inflationary policy of the new government, as you said you were ready to do, that you know how you're going to do it, that you're going to immediately twist it by 80 billion, that you're going to be a lot more budgetaryly responsible. So now it's showing up, now it's showing up. The fact is, it's just not that it's even worse than it was. It's even worse than it was! So I propose an extraordinary point for the SPD movement, Madam President, which will be called the State Budget Deficit 2022, and I am convinced that these are the things that we need to discuss here. Because if you want to continue budgeting like this for the next few years, I'm just telling you that in three years, we're going to get into huge social, social economic problems. I'm telling you, in three years, you won't be able to retire. And, of course, he's gonna be... it disrupts social peace in the Czech Republic, it disrupts everything, everything. Such a government should not be here, such a government should resign. For this reason, I consider it a very, very serious matter that we need to discuss here. So once again, Madam President, I propose a point in the State Budget Deficit for 2022. I ask you to include him as... to vote as the first item in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u11	Thank you and Mrs Klára Dostálová will now speak. Before I give her my word, I have an announcement to make. Minister Kupka votes with replacement card number 27. And I'll read the apologies. He apologizes to Markéta Pekarová Adamová until 9.30 for personal reasons and Minister Vlastimil Válek throughout the day for working reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Today, I would like to place the first point at today's meeting on the possible thwarting of investments by municipalities due to changes in the potential challenge of the IROP, which should be announced today. Even the mayors, namely the mayor of Pisek, sent an open request for explanation to the Prime Minister. The situation is very serious. I will try to give you a very brief outline and there are many mayors among you, so I'm sure you know about this problem. All the mayors were planning projects to reconstruct primary schools. In the rules of the call for the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, it was therefore possible for the eligible expenditure to be between 1 million and 99 million, and given that our government approved the so-called financial flow methodology, all cities and municipalities reached 90% of the subsidy. This means, of course, the co-financing rate plus the state budget of 90 percent. On Monday, right after the election, this Monday, the Ministry of Regional Development announced a press release that it changed the terms of the challenge, but not cosmetically, but literally drastically. And I'll tell you right away how: instead of 99 million eligible expenditures at a time of maximum 35, instead of 90% of the co-financing rate of a maximum of 65 or 75 depending on whether it's a less developed region or a transition region. I'm asking, is the Ministry serious? What are these mayors supposed to do with it now? We need to realise that there are no deputies. The mayor is essentially writing off $100 million now. Maybe the mayor of Koleta from Hronov wrote to me that he had a 135 million-dollar project ready, and now he's only going to have 35 new qualifying ones. What's he supposed to do with the $100 million? This is really - it is not possible to take a red pencil and start cutting it like this. The embassies must have a chance to look at these projects again, but I also consider it very outrageous to change the conditions in such a drastic manner when the Union of Towns and Municipalities disagrees, and of course all mayors know this very well. So I would like to place this point as the first point in order for the Ministry to assure us. But at the same time, it is fair to admit that we, as the shadow government, called on him yesterday to at least extend the challenge. And here it is worth thanking the Minister for listening to the shadow government and moving the challenge to the beginning of November. But, of course, there is still a change in parameters. Just the mayors today in the energy crisis, in what they are, have no chance to finance the projects with 100 million and larger amounts, so it is necessary to look at the parameters of the challenge and actually take into account the current situation as such. Jumping from 99 million to 35 is really a terrible hit on the city and community budget. That is why I would like to include this first item in today's meeting entitled "Cities' lost investment, the challenge of the Integrated Regional Operational Programme." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Radek Vondráček is now in office. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u14	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm a little off the other keg right now. I would also like to propose a new point for today's negotiations and, first, if any of the points proposed so far will be included, as would the second or third after those proposed, and I would call it the solution to the situation in the area of illegal immigration in the Czech Republic. I'm sure I won't use all those five minutes. I just want to inform you that we in the Zlín Region are actually still feeling the movement of migrants, but they are spreading throughout the Republic. For your information, it seems that the border is now closed, the Police of the Czech Republic will collect the migrants, mostly from Syria, and bring them to us to Holešov Police School. The capacity of this device may already be at the edge or beyond the edge. There they will receive basic information, can use the hygiene equipment, are equipped with appropriate documents and are tied to the station in Hulín and placed on the train towards Germany. But because, of course, we are the first country that actually meets, fulfills its obligations, Slovakia will not take them back, because Slovakia has let them go, and Germany is returning them to us because the documents they have obtained are Czech. So they will return them and those illegal migrants who have 30 days to leave the Czech Republic - we cannot expel them - return to Germany again because they really do not want to come to us. And this, this carousel, can happen again, like, three, four, five times, and I feel like it's really like Kocourkov. That is why I would like to address this situation here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I've already designed this point once. I know this point was designed by Tomio Okamura, but I suggest it in a slightly different way. I really propose it as a helpful hand to the government of the Czech Republic to express itself here to tell us what the solution is. We closed the borders, followed the irritating reaction of the Slovak Prime Minister, so I'd like to ask: Please, at least our Prime Minister answered the phone and called the Slovak Prime Minister and wanted to make a deal, did he want to coordinate? Everyone is talking about the need for a Europe-wide solution, and I fully agree that external borders need to be protected, and I agree with that. But I want to ask you, what is it that you do with it? How do we help? Above all, and above all, why do we have a Presidency in the European Union? So what did our Prime Minister do in Europe when we all want a European solution and we have a chance to do something about it by the end of the year under the Presidency? But I didn't get a clue, nothing at all. [[9.30 hours]] So I'm handing out a helpful hand. I don't think there's any way to say that there's really no way to keep it quiet, and this government really should do something about it. We in this Chamber of Deputies are interested. I am not really curious that thousands of people at Wenceslas report to people who basically spread hatred for a group of residents. These people are running away from the war, I respect it, they're looking for a future, they're being polite with us, but the YES movement has long reported zero tolerance for illegal migration and say what you want, but they just didn't come for us. They just didn't get past the border for us. Now the crossings have closed, but I have information first that the cops are really falling on their mouths, they don't want overtime money anymore, they just want to be home with the families. And yet they're not able to close the green line in any way effectively. You can't move there without an army. So I would like to know if there is any coordinated position of the Government of the Czech Republic and what you will do with it, because it is in the interest of all of us. And I don't want to cause any xenophobic or hateful moods, but please, this can't wait. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u15	Thank you. Let me just specify the name of the point: Solving the situation in the area of illegal migration? Isn't that right? Thank you. Anyone else checking in to change the program approved by the program? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the proposals as they have been read. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm gonna reengage. It seems that the crowd of colleagues and colleagues has eased. We'll wait for Mrs Urbanová, who will probably pick up a spare card, please wait. Thank you for your patience. Mrs Urbanová votes with replacement card number 31. We would now vote on the first proposal, which was the proposal by President Schillerová, which proposes to include a new item in the Explanation of the Minister of Finance on the budget, on the amendment to the budget 2022. Isn't that right? Initiating vote... Sorry, sorry, sorry for the confusion. I just checked you out, so I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We will hold out for a while and wait for the number of applicants to settle, and then we will vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 95, Members of Parliament registered 154, for 69, against 83. The motion was denied. The second proposal was the proposal by President Radim Fiala, who proposes to include a new item called the State Budget Deficit for 2022. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 96, Members of Parliament registered 154, for 69, against 79. The motion was denied. The third proposal was Mrs Klára Dostálová's proposal, which proposes to include a new point entitled "Cities' lost investment - the IROP call. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 97, Members of Parliament registered 154, for 69, against 31. The motion was denied. So we've dealt with all the suggestions... [[Member Radim Fiala from the diaper reminds me that there is one more proposal.]] One more vote, yes, thank you. We have one more proposal, and that is Mr Radek Vondráček's proposal. It proposes to include a new point in dealing with the situation in the area of illegal migration. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 155 Members and Members voted in favour of 71, versus 16. The motion was denied. So now we have dealt with all the proposals and the President Radim Fiala is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Well, of course, it's no surprise to me that the coalition doesn't want to settle accounts for such a crazy deficit, de facto the same deficit as the previous government, which they criticized, which they said the budget was upside-inflationary, that it was a disaster, that they would be more budgetaryly responsible. They said that when they were in government, they would reduce the state budget deficit by 80 to 100 billion. Well, let's see how it all turned out in the end. The budget is exactly the same as the budget of the previous government. So I don't see where the budgetary responsibility of the new government that they spoke so clearly about is being declared to the media. And since they don't want to talk about it with us, and because they don't want to explain why it happened, why it happened after the election, of course, the day after the election, I want to ask for a 45-minute break at the club meeting because we need to talk about what we're going to do when the coalition government doesn't want to talk about increasing their budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u17	Yes, thank you. So I'm declaring a 45-minute break from the SPD club. [[A silence.]] Once again, I'm declaring a 45-minute break for the SPD club meeting. We'd meet here at 10:23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, after the break, we will continue the negotiations. The President of the Fiala shall have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u19	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to announce the outcome of the meeting of the House of Deputies. We have, of course, met with the leaders of the ANO parliamentary club, they have also dealt with Minister Stanjura, and the result is that we have agreed that after the end of the service law, which is one of the other points today, Minister Stanjura will come forward and explain the state budget deficit, which I call it, because we have to talk about it, and, of course, even if we have priority rights, we can respond to it. So the outcome of our parliamentary club is positive and I am glad that the Minister of Finance will come forward and explain this year's 375-billion-dollar deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-30-ps2021-035-06-000-000.u20	Thank you. We are all aware, therefore, that Minister Stanjura will speak with priority right after the end of this point which I am opening, and that point is:
