ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-005-102.u1	102. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Doha on 21 June 2022 /German press 255/ - second reading Now, according to the original intention, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who is excused, should replace him with Minister Martin Baxa. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-005-102.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. For the third time I am interpreting an apology, this time Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, and his heartfelt greetings. Colleagues and colleagues, a double taxation treaty with Katar, signed on 21 June of this year in Doha, is presented at the meeting of today's meeting. The Czech Republic currently has international agreements to prevent double taxation with more than 90 countries in the world, but Qatar is still missing. There is currently a non-contractual relationship in the mutual tax relations between the Czech Republic and Qatar except for one exception. This exception is the area of air transport where an agreement is implemented between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the State of Qatar on air transport, which, among other things, concerns only indirect taxes. The most interesting investment opportunities can be found in Qatar in oil mining and processing projects, liquefaction and export of natural gas or construction projects. The prospective areas for strengthening Czech-Catar trade-economic cooperation are also in addition to traditional Czech spa and health care, especially in the field of physiotherapy, such as agriculture and food industry or the production of building materials. Qatar thus represents a wide range of possibilities for Czech investors and exporters. The most important items of Czech exports include machines and means of transport, medical supplies and textile products. The most important import items from Qatar are ethylene polymers, aluminium alloys and parts and accessories of liquid crystal elements. This comprehensive tax contract covers the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income. It also provides for basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both countries. The contract shall allow for informal settlement of disputes arising from its implementation, where appropriate, while ensuring the relevant exchange of information between the competent authorities of both States. The contract will also increase the legal certainty of both countries' investors, create space for Czech business entities and thus help develop mutual economic relations. The treaty was prepared on the basis of OECD and UN model models, and, of course, it also responds to the internal tax regulations of both countries. It can be concluded that the text of the contract fully reflects developments and trends in the international tax field. The Treaty does not replace the national tax rules of the Contracting States and cannot thus establish a new tax obligation but only regulates the obligations arising from national rules. It thus contributes to an objective distribution of the right to tax on individual types of income between the two States, that is between the State of the source of income and the State of the residence of its beneficiary. The overall contribution resulting from the application of the present contract will depend on the future development of the various forms of economic cooperation. In this context it can be said that the balance of mutual trade is positive from the point of view of the Czech Republic. The value of exports from the Czech Republic exceeds several times the value of imports. The mutual trade exchange amounted to nearly CZK 3 billion in 2021. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to suggest that The Chamber of Deputies agreed to ratify this important treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-005-102.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Michal Ratiborský, to justify the resolution of the committee, which has been delivered as House Press 255/1. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-005-102.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The International Double Taxation Treaty is designed to remove one of the barriers to the development of mutual economic relations between the two States and to increase the legal certainty of investors. I would like to briefly outline why this is important in relation to Qatar. Qatar is a dynamically developing economy of the Gulf Cooperation Council of Arab States - GCC. Within this organisation, it has the highest per capita GDP. The fall in GDP in the pandemic year 2020 was only 3.6 % in the year-on-year comparison. When economic recovery and growth occurred in 2021, it reached almost 3%. The largest growth is to be recorded by the Qatarian economy in 2022, thanks to the completion of investments related to the organisation of the World Cup in football and increased tourism. Qatar has taken the economic crisis as an opportunity to consolidate its privileged regional and global position, strengthen its autonomy and strategic production capacities. Energy, logistics, tourism, food and high-tech industries remain priority areas for Qatar. The Government of Qatar continues to strengthen Qatar's dominant position in the global LNG liquefied natural gas market. Qatar is the fourth largest natural gas producer in the world and the world's largest LNG exporter. As a result of the war in Ukraine, it is coming to the centre of interest with a view to ensuring energy security and supply to Europe. Katar is further aware that due to Green Deal, the demand for liquefied natural gas is likely to increase even more in the future. Therefore, they concentrate a large volume of investment in building additional capacities using state-of-the-art technologies. By 2027 he wants to double the production of liquefied gas. In addition, Qatar introduces environmentally friendly technologies, explores the possibilities of increasing the share of renewable energy sources, such as photovoltaics, wind power plants or hydrogen. [[10.10 hours]] The country continues to digitize the economy, supports the development of state-of-the-art innovative information technologies and already has functional coverage of 5G networks with low latency and ultralight real-time data transfer. Here, for example, there are many opportunities for Czech companies and start-ups operating in the area of ICT. Other opportunities for Czech companies are in construction, for example, where even after the end of the World Football Championship, the construction and modernisation of large infrastructure projects and buildings and the implementation of digitalisation in this sector will continue. The health and pharmaceutical industry of Qatar also represents a great potential for Czech suppliers, where Qatar invests massively in public health and expands its capacity. In order to benefit from these potentials, our companies need to remove a number of barriers to trade between them. Avoiding double taxation is hopefully only the first one and others will follow. The Foreign Committee adopted its resolution at its 11th meeting on 1 September: "After the justification of Deputy Minister of Finance . Mgr Stanislav Kouba, D, Member Michal Ratiborský intelligence report, and after the debate, the Foreign Committee first recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall adopt the following resolution: [[I.]] The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Doha on 21 June 2022; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee.'; Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-005-102.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening up a debate and asking if anyone is joining the debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Apparently, he's not interested. We will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, as read by the rapporteur. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. In the meantime, I will read once again the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income taxes and on the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, signed in Doha on 21 June 2022." We will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Who agrees with the motion for a resolution? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 48, registered by 137 Members and Members, for 122, against none. The motion was accepted. It therefore means that we have agreed to ratify the Treaty between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the State of Qatar. This concludes the discussion of paragraph 102. We're going to proceed to questioning point number
