ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-009-084.u1	84. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of Sweden on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 13 November 1990 in Prague, which was negotiated in the form of exchange of notes /house printing 115/ - second reading I ask that the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka take the floor at this time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-009-084.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on this agreement between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Federal Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden, the same applies to the previous agreement, which was mentioned a little while ago, which concerned changing cooperation with the Austrian side. In the light of the proceedings in the Achmea case, the proceedings and decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union, all agreements which originally included clauses on the protection of investments which are redundant in the context of intra-EU relations should be terminated. In this regard, I would again like to ask for your support to adjust things and to abolish the previous one with a new agreement. In this respect, please agree to ratify the new agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-009-084.u3	Thank you, Minister. Now I would like to ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, where there is a change again, and this press will be presented by Mr Michal Ratiborský. I ask that you also justify the resolution that has just been delivered as House press 115/1. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-009-084.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the Foreign Committee discussed this press at its 7th meeting on 31 March and adopted this resolution on the Government's proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to express its agreement to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of Sweden on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Federal Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and protection of investments signed in Prague on 13 November 1990, which was negotiated in the form of an exchange of notes: "After the justification of Deputy Minister of Finance JUDr. Martina Matějová, D, news report Mgr Tomáš Kohoutek, MBA, and following the debate, the Foreign Committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolutions: [[I.]] The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of Sweden on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and protection of investments signed on 13 November 1990 in Prague, which was negotiated in the form of an exchange of notes; [[II.]] Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; [[III.]] empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the outcome of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee.'; Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-009-084.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, before I open the debate, I would like to read the apologies. I have here an apology to Mrs Věra Kovářová, today between 11.45 and 21 hours for working reasons, there is also an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, today from 12 to 13 o'clock for working reasons, and there is an apology to Mr Marek Výborný from 11.30 to 13 o'clock for working reasons. And then by leaving my colleague, I don't know if these apologies were read. If I read them twice, I'm sorry. Mr Michal Zuna's apology, today between 6 and 21 o'clock for work reasons, and last - Mr Havránek, all day long, for work reasons. I'm gonna put in the records, and at this point, it's clear that the apologies have been loaded. I would now like to open a debate on this point, to which no one is entered in writing. At this point, I'm looking around the O.R. to see if anyone's reporting from place to place. No one's checking in, so I'm ending the debate at this point. I'll ask the Minister if he's interested in the final word? I will also ask the rapporteur. He's also not interested in the final word. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I will read it: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of Sweden on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Federal Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden on the promotion and protection of investments signed in Prague on 13 November 1990, which was negotiated in the form of an exchange of notes." We all know what we're going to vote on. I am now opening the vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Thank you for the vote. At the moment 130 Members were voted in favour of 99 against 1, 30 abstained. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. That concludes point 84. Now we're going to discuss item number
