ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u1	7. Government bill amending Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care and Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended /German Press 151/ - First Reading And I will ask that this proposal be made by the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula and that the rapporteur, Mr Lukáš Vlček, settle at the rapporteur's counter. [[Noise in the hall.]] Please, Minister, take the floor, and I will ask for peace in the hall, when leaving you can be left quietly. [[Hall]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u2	Hello. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the Government's amendment to Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care. The aim of the proposed draft law is, in particular, the introduction of an obligation to label plant protection products for professional users with unique identifiers in the form of so-called two-dimensional barcodes and to send data on movements of these products to the repository of data managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to prevent the falsification of these products, to further electronize records of the use of preparations and ancillary devices following the model of the intended registration of fertiliser use, in response to the catastrophic overgrowth of field voltiles, to adapt the process and professional procedures of the Central Institute of Control and Testing of Agricultural Diseases - in this context, in particular, the definitions and procedures for determining the population density of harmful organisms - and to make partial changes in the field of treatment of preparations with a view to simplifying and clarifying legislation, for example in the field of professional competence for the management of preparations. In the light of the above and the fact that this is only a technical amendment to the Act, I hereby allow myself to do so in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the Act. At the same time, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall ask for the possibility of a short hearing in committees for 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u3	Thank you, Minister. Let me also point out that this must also be heard in the debate. I will now ask the rapporteur's opening words for first reading, Mr Lukáš Vlček. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u4	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members and fellow Members, I would like to briefly supplement the Minister for Agriculture. The submitted amendment introduces the labelling of plant protection products for so-called professional users by means of unique identifiers and the compulsory registration of the placing on the market of products for such users in electronic form. The benefits may include a shift to digitization or better traceability and verification of information for both consumers and for safety supervision and control purposes. Furthermore, the amendment regulates procedural and professional procedures in cases of a catastrophic condition caused by the multiplication of the harmful organism, plants, especially the already mentioned field vole. Last but not least, this submitted material aims to modify the electronicisation of records of used plant protection products and plant protection aids and their transmission in a specified format over a certain period of time, as proposed in the framework of the modifications to the use of fertilisers. That's my petitioner's news report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. And so I am opening up a general debate in which a number of entries are made. Mrs Monika Oborná will be the first to speak and then Mr Oldřich Černý will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on press 151 on the amendment to the Plant Health Care Act, because, as has already been said here, one of the areas that the amendment to the Plant Health Care Act regulates is the protection of plants against harmful organisms, and it is also this draft law that builds on experience from recent times, especially the catastrophic overgrowth of the field vole. We have been quite active on this subject since the last parliamentary term, with the members of the agricultural committee we visited farmers directly in the field where we saw ravaged fields, ravaged crops and the despair of farmers, to whom the field vole has caused great problems, so I believe that this subject should not fit in here, and so allow me to remind some kind of genesis on this issue in this regard. This is a problem that has been troubling our farmers for the last few years. In the summer of 2019, especially in South Moravia, there was such an overgrowth of voles that farmers had to proceed to an earlier crop harvest. In some places, the voles ate up to half the crop, the worst situation in the last 50 years was mentioned. The results of the monitoring of the occurrence of the vole, which has been carried out annually by inspectors of the Central Inspection and Testing Institute of Agriculture, have shown high population density in a number of districts of the Czech Republic since the beginning of 2019. At that time, there were 48 districts with cadastrals in the Central Audit and Testing Institute's records, where the vole population has crossed the so-called pest harmful threshold five or more times since the beginning of the year, a situation considered to be a catastrophic overgrowth. However, in July 2019 the then spokesperson of the agricultural resort recommended as a solution of high-quality orb, providing favorable conditions for natural enemies of vole trees or planting trees, shrubs and placing seats for predators. The amendment of the approach took place at the beginning of August 2019, when the Institute issued in accordance with EU legislation and Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care, two regulations on the exceptional use of Stutox-II. This product could exceptionally have been used in a higher dose only in Norwegian voles throughout the territory of the Czech Republic and in a higher dose when applied only in the districts of the Czech Republic, where the occurrence of voles has been evaluated as very catastrophic. In connection with the authorisation of the application of this product, the Ministry of the Environment pointed out immediately that authorisations issued by the Institute under the Plant Health Care Act do not replace the necessary permits or other administrative acts which farmers must comply with when applying Stutox. According to the Ministry of Environment, the application of poisons on agricultural land significantly threatens various species of animals, especially birds, and is thus contrary to the law on conservation of nature and landscape. In the case of the use of poisons and thus the possible significant influence of European sites or avian areas, it is necessary, according to the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment, to request the opinion of the competent nature conservation authority as to whether the application of biocidal products in a particular territory needs to be subject to the assessment of an authorized person. The Ministry of the Environment then also activated the Czech environmental inspection, which the infringement should have consistently investigated and subsequently prosecuted. The same or very similar situation was repeated in 2020. In September 2020, in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, the central agricultural control and testing institute issued again a regulation on the extraordinary use of poisons on voles. At that time, an increased levy was granted to the Norwegian authorities on specific parcels where the application was reached or exceeded five times the threshold of harmfulness, but again only on the basis of the decision of the Institute, and not on the basis of the evaluation of the authorized person and the competent nature conservation authority. [[10.10 hours]] The amendment to the Plant Health Care Act, which we are discussing here today, regulates the Institute's procedural and professional procedures in cases of a catastrophic condition caused by the multiplication of the harmful organism of plants, including, among other things, the field vole. The explanatory memorandum states: "The definitions and procedures for determining the population density of harmful organisms need to be revised fundamentally and transparently, where not only the economic damage to agricultural or forestry production is already taking place, but also the risk of endangering human health, animal health and the environment. These procedures are still somewhat vague in the law, which in practice causes some uncertainty and difficulties." It also says: "A clear, transparent and objective criteria for determining the value of the harmful organism's threshold and a transparent procedure for such determinations will be established. The criteria shall be based on current, scientifically substantiated and verifiable supporting documents and evidence.'; Of course, I welcome the setting of clear and objective criteria for the implementation of protective measures, but I am not quite sure whether such criteria can be established on a scientific basis on which both constitutional experts and conservation experts can find a consensus. However, as is apparent from the above, it is not only these procedures that cause some uncertainty and difficulties in the current adjustment. That is why I have a question here for the Minister, I would like to ask him - I believe he will answer me, I will be very happy for it, thank you in advance for the answer - so, Minister, I would like to ask how the bill deals with the conflict between the Plant Health Care Act and the Nature and Landscape Act, including the link to territorial protection of nature and landscape, not only in specially protected areas, but also in relation to Natura 2000 sites and so on. If this is not the case, and I did not find such a link in the bill, we can again easily get into the situation that farmers will apply Stutox on the basis of the permission of the Institute, and the competent nature protection authorities will fine them for the same for violating the law. Thank you for your attention and I thank the Minister in advance for his reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u7	Thank you, Madame, for your contribution. I will also conclude the apologies that have come out, while the Member who follows will be prepared. He apologizes to the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan from 9.55 to 11 o'clock for working reasons, and also to Minister Ivan Bartoš from 10.30 to 12 o'clock for meeting at the Senate plenary meeting and Mr Patrik Nacher between 11.00 and 13.15 for working reasons. And now we can proceed to the next logged in, which is Mr Oldřich Černý, and then Mr David Pražák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers, allow me to speak briefly on behalf of the SPD. The basic objective of phytosanitary care is to ensure the health of plants and plant products with regard to food safety and consumer protection. Plant health also plays an important role not only for plant production but also for forests, natural areas and ecosystems. Risks associated with the use and minimisation of plant protection products are very important from the point of view of protecting human and animal health and the individual components of the environment, as well as the food and feed chain and the quality of plant commodities produced. As the main benefits of amending this law, it is possible to highlight further increases in the level of digitalisation of state administration with the interlinking of the needs of individual ministries and other administrative offices, restrictions on the marketing of unauthorised products, thereby reducing the risk of harm to human, animal and environmental health, improving the traceability of sources of pollution, reducing the spread of unauthorised products in the Czech Republic by falsification, improving the possibility for the supervisory and control activities of state administration, the possibility of future connection of information applications intended for all farmers, simplifying the handling of products within distribution, ensuring traceability both from the production line to final distribution into agricultural primary production, enabling automation of compliance with obligations and reducing administrative burden, increasing traceability and safety for the State agricultural and food inspection of processed agricultural commodities for plant protection products produced, increasing traceability of products to protect against contamination of groundwater and surface waters, increasing traceability of products in the protection of vulnerable persons in areas used by the general public and, and, last but not least, increasing the traceability of products in the protection of bees and other pollinaters and other species of organisms and plants. Therefore, the position of the SPD movement for first reading will be in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next is Mr. David Pražák, and after that Mr. Josef Kott can prepare himself. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u10	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, ministers. I would like to draw attention, in this press, to the amendment to the Plant Health Care Act, to the trivial state of availability of plant protection products, especially given that other active substances are authorised in each Member State of the European Union, and mutual recognition does not work between Member States as we might think. We are constantly encouraged that there is a common European market, but the reality is different. Farmers are discriminated against, and some crops are practically out of care. Although the integrated production system is to be supported in the future in the European Union strategy, as we have already seen in the draft strategic plan on the common agricultural policy, so far it seems to be a departure from producers rather than for new producers. Why this is currently the case, I would like to mention a few brief comments. The registration of preparations costs considerable funds and the holder of these authorisations will consider whether or not to put these funds into the registration in the small territory of the Czech Republic, or whether to concentrate on larger countries with more specific crops. Of course, once again our farmers and consumers, in other words, customers who buy in stores, are taking it away. A farmer, if the product is not registered in the Czech Republic, uses another, less effective, and what happens? If he wants to be at least a little economically competitive to other colleagues in agriculture from neighbouring countries, given the yield, he has to enter the crop more times with less effective substances, with less effective preparations and, of course, with another substance, but the more he strengthens the soil, which is then more vulnerable to erosion, consumes more diesel and actually destroys more of the environment that we are still talking about. That's why I'm asking, where's the effect? That's the effect of us making things up here, but on the other hand, we're doing more and more of those land inputs. Where is the effect when the consumer then buys fruit and vegetables from abroad, which is cheaper because of course it has fewer inputs, and instead doesn't buy production from our farmers, but buys, for example, from Poland or other countries? Fruit and vegetables, of course, not all, are brought here in a better way from the other corner of the European Union, worse from the other end of the world, and no one cares about the burden on the environment. I note, of course, that I am talking about fruit and vegetables which can be grown due to climatic conditions in the Czech Republic. And it is important to remember that farmers in the Czech Republic do not have the same conditions as others in the surrounding countries. I think it's wrong. [[10.20 hours]] On 8 March, we discussed the issue of apple tree flora on the subcommittee on hunting, fishing, beekeeping, gardening and breeding. A colleague of ours came up with this, who has fruit orchards. The Association of Fruiters was invited there, the Central Inspection and Testing Institute of Agriculture was invited there, the Institute of Health was invited there. There was this confrontation between them, and we actually learned their arguments, which I may even understand a little bit, but the result was - and KDU colleagues will forgive me - that we are more papal than the Pope again. Flotopas eats, or eats and eats further, now in May and again takes away our Czech fruit farmer and he from Poland I dare say that we are grinning around the corner and looking forward to what we will again invent against our farmers so that he can happily import these products. Ten key pesticide substances have been lost by Czech fruit farmers in recent years and additional bans are expected. New products come across the disinterest of companies about new registration for economic reasons, as I said at the outset. What, then, is the biggest problem first? The extension of the marketing authorisation for minor uses, where the active substance is authorised to another crop, is based on the availability of residual studies at national level. Likewise, mutual recognition of authorisations between states again runs into the absence of studies because they are not recognised nationally. One solution is an extraordinary measure, but it is time-consuming, and it is certainly not a procedure that should be used in the long term, although in Germany, for example, if you are interested in this, they will issue 81 emergency measures for the year's idea when authorising plant protection products, but in the Czech Republic 10. Another example may be insecticide cyantraniliprole, a pest control product where two applications are allowed in a neighbouring country, but only one in our country. Due to the lack of instruments, effective plant protection will occur, or the production of fruit will be reduced, the yield will be reduced due to damage to the fruit by harmful organisms and the fact that these goods are not sold. There should certainly be a simplification of the administration of mutual recognition, especially with neighbouring countries which are directly adjacent to the Czech Republic, because we have comparable climatic conditions, as well as the implementation of permits on the basis of joint documents and studies from other Member States. Last but not least, I will not argue whether this process of approving plant protection products should take place only under one institution, which is why we have the Ministry of the Environment, Health and Agriculture, which, in the interests of our farmers, will surely agree wisely, and that is what we should be interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one more apology, namely the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek from 9 to 10.30 for work reasons. Next up is Mr Josef Kott's enrollment and then Mr Karel Tureček can be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Minister, Ministers, I wanted to talk about a similar matter that my colleague Pražák spoke to me about, but I would like to extend what was really discussed on the subcommittee. I have three topics here that I believe are important within this law. The first is basically the definition of two paragraphs, so that we all realize what the amendment to the Plant Health Care Act concerns, what plant health care itself is, and what basic responsibilities both legal and natural persons already have. Plant health care consists in protecting the territory of the Czech Republic from the introduction of harmful organisms from abroad and measures against the spread of harmful organisms, on the contrary, when exported abroad. Secondly, the systematic detection, evaluation and registration of the presence of harmful organisms and disturbances on land and in the premises where plants or plant products are grown, produced, stored or processed. Furthermore, it is a restriction on the occurrence, spread and effect of harmful organisms and disorders and a reduction of their harmfulness by using both direct and indirect methods of protection, including exceptional plant health measures, taking into account the protection of human health, animals, game, wildlife and, of course, with all respect for the environment. Of course, plant health care is subject to phytosanitary supervision, the registration of growers, producers and importers of plants and plant products which may be the source of the spread of quarantine harmful organisms, and other persons referred to in Article 7 (1) (a) of Directive 91/414/EEC. 1. It also deals with the registration of preparations and ancillary devices, which I will bring closer to you in the last part of my output. It is also the monitoring of the efficacy of products, aids and genetically modified organisms intended for plant protection use, including their adverse effects. Furthermore, it is the registration of mechanisms and the use of scientific knowledge on harmful organisms and methods of protection against these organisms. The basic obligations referred to in Section 4 for both legal and natural persons producing, processing, storing or putting into circulation plants or plant products: owners of land or persons using them for other legal reasons shall be obliged in their activities to limit the presence and spread of harmful organisms in such a way as to avoid damage to other persons as a result of their multiplication and to avoid damage to the environment and to human or animal health. Secondly, report the presence or suspicion of the presence of a quarantine harmful organism provided for in the implementing regulation to the competent authority of phytosanitary care either directly or through the municipality. Here they may treat plants, plant products or other objects against harmful organisms only by registered products or by means of the means specified and clearly specified in Section 29 and by the eligible means of mechanisation referred to in Sections 35 and 37. And now I would like to extend the comments made by my colleague Pražák, who we discussed on the subcommittee, and then we introduced these conclusions to the agricultural committee. It is necessary to say - and it has already been said here in yesterday's debate - that the Czech Republic is actually among countries that have severely reduced the use of chemical products for plant protection and fertilisers and is strongly below the European Union's average, and I would say that blunt cuts, essentially in banning the use of active substances at European level, are Czech producers - and they are, of course, not just fruit farmers and greengrocers, which we talked about primarily, but were in the past also seeders and seed potato growers - have got into an unsolvable problem by the fact that there has been a banned active substance, which will, in essence, enable the production of quality certified seed and thus preserve the plant species as such. We have reached such a stage that we do not have sufficient active substances in the Czech Republic to be able to maintain quality production of raw materials and subsequently food, thanks only to the fact that, basically, as my colleague Pražák said, the Czech Republic is such an insignificant area in the context of greenery and fruit production that significant multinational companies are not worth performing registration experiments, which are, first, lengthy and secondly, relatively financially demanding. We are putting our producers into unsolvable conditions and I believe that we are unable to produce enough products in organic farming to be able to secure food chains within the Czech Republic. [[10.30 hours]] What my colleague Monika Oborná was talking about here in the context of the proliferation of harmful agents, and she mentioned here the vole, I would like to say that I was very pleased to have managed in some way to correct the problems that arose here because the authorisation processes for the use of means against harmful agents were actually three-stage, and although the Ministry of Agriculture issued a decree, and it was a rather rapid solution, so at regional decision level, the views were simply different and were not always quick enough to enable the farm or the farmer to react more quickly. For this reason, I would like to prepare an amendment to this amendment to the law on simplifying the approval process of the use of active substances and protective devices within the authorisation process as it should be, and that means that the Ministry of Agriculture, as a guarantee of food production, production in the Czech Republic, will decide on this separately and will not have to pay attention, as mentioned here, to the recommendations or not recommended by the State Health Institute, because I believe that there are sufficiently competent people at the Ministry of Agriculture who have experience in the authorisation process, and in my opinion, that there is therefore great support for the Minister of Agriculture in order to get these amendments there and that we have been able to simplify the authorisation process. The second thing is that we will try to propose possibilities for the recognition of chemical products, or active substances, within the European Union. This means that if chemicals or plant protection products are already allowed somewhere in neighbouring countries, so that the Czech farmer too, the Czech producer has the opportunity to use these products. I believe that if we can implement this into the law, we will prevent parallel imports from happening here, that the Czech Republic will lose control of what chemicals are used here and how much so-called parallel imports from abroad are coming here, and we will also prevent the fact that we will essentially expose Czech producers and producers of uncompetitiveness by being able to use protective substances that producers in neighbouring countries and whose products end up on the counters of Czech markets, we will be able to make them at home. So I will end with this and say that I will prepare an amendment so that we can be able to help Czech producers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking over the management of the meeting. I hereby greet you all. I note that we are in the general debate, and at the moment the next person who is enrolled in the debate is Mr Karel Tureček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u14	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would of course like to take a look at this plant health care law from several perspectives. It can be said that the legislation presented divides the law into two basic areas. For one thing, it is an area of protection against harmful plant organisms, the so-called phytosanitary area, and the other is the very detailed issue of market delivery and use of plant protection products and aids. At the same time, this law implements the implementation of the relevant European directives into our legal order, and, as the petitioner himself admits in the explanatory report, despite setting clear rules in both of these areas through European and national legislation shows the scope and need for improvement. And here I think there's a lot of room for discussion. The proposed legislation is undoubtedly being amended in the area of protection against harmful plant organisms, as well as in the field of pre-school. The first very important change in the proposal is the introduction of plant protection products labelling for professional users through unique identifiers. In order to ensure that the objectives in this area are met, it is necessary to strengthen the control of the black market for plant protection products without registration in the form of this electronic register, on the one hand, for holders of authorisations, manufacturers, distribution itself and, last but not least, agricultural primary production through already mentioned electronic codes. It should be pointed out that a sectoral study by the Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property last year stated that, within the framework of the European 28-year-olds, the sale of illegal falsified pesticides represents 13,8% of their total sales, with forgeries imported into the Czech Republic being more than 17.8% of sales, and thus, in this regard, in this negative issue, above the European Union average by about 4 percent and at the total value, and this is, of course, an already striking number, these forgeries represent the value of CZK 930 million. So it's kind of a serious problem. Of course, the law itself, the bill introduces obligations to the holders of permits, their own producers, the distribution of primary agricultural production, however, as it is always customary, there is always an unbalanced division of obligations when the holders of permits, manufacturers, the distribution itself, and the most affected by the operators of primary agricultural production are the disproportionate burden of bureaucracy, reporting, and, of course, they themselves have a very complex position, a complex situation, because they work in the field, they have to respond to the biological nature of agricultural primary production. They have to make decisions in the order of hours, while the authorisation holders and manufacturers make decisions in the order of months, years. Of course, they make decisions, agricultural primary production, our primary producers make decisions in the order of hours, at most days. If they do not make such a decision, they will, of course, lose all the crop of the given production year, so of course it is a great burden for them, and of course any increase in further bureaucracy is perceived negatively by them and weakens their competitiveness itself. [[10.40 hours]] I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture here whether he is counting on this and whether this topic has already been discussed and will be discussed by the Anti-Burocratic Commission set up by the Ministry of Agriculture, and if there has been a discussion as to whether any conclusions have been drawn and, where appropriate, what will be the procedure of the Ministry of Agriculture in response to these conclusions of the Anti-Burocratic Commission of the Ministry of Agriculture with the aim of minimizing the bureaucratic impact on agricultural primary production. The second area that I would like to mention, and it must be assumed, is likely that, in the field of phytosanitary and illegal markets, with protective or plant protection aid, the situation of the illegal market of forgeries and these matters will deteriorate in the current situation. I would not like this law to affect, in particular, our producers, seed producers and seed producers. They were burdened with virtually excessive bureaucracy, certain disadvantages towards colleagues from abroad. On the other hand, I am counting on an increase in the effects of the food crisis in Europe and throughout the world to increase the pressure on sales, the distribution of illegal protective equipment and plant protection aids. At the same time, it can be assumed that, even as a result of the crisis in the agrarian sector in Ukraine and its effects on all plant and animal commodities at all, there will be an increase in pressures, demand pressures for seed and seed within the European area. And, of course, there will be once again an area of import, exports within the entire European 28 and uncertified seed and seed. So I am very interested in how the Ministry of Agriculture is practically prepared in the phytosanitary field to work on protection on the one hand of our seed and seed producers, so that they are not exposed to unfair and unfair competition from abroad, because we have to count on this pressure to occur in this area and, at the same time, how the Ministry of Agriculture, through the State Plant Health Administration, is prepared not only to protect domestic seed and seed producers, but to protect agricultural primary producers against the introduction of dangerous diseases and pests. That is what I think is a great challenge, and in this respect, practically phytosanitary surveillance within the Ministry of Agriculture must be strengthened. So the second question, and I hereby join the questions of my previous speakers to the Minister of Agriculture, is whether the Ministry expects, eventually, in the future, to amend this plant health care law, which should include, on the one hand, the reduction of administrative claims on agricultural primary production, at the same time, to protect our agricultural primary production in the field of phytosanitary matters and to respond in practical terms to the situation that will undoubtedly occur in the whole of the European market, possibly also in the world market, without doubt in the field of seed movement, seed and the use of preparations and plant protection aids. Thank you for your attention and I will ask the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u15	Thank you, Mr Member, and I am once again stating that we are in the general debate, and who else is included in the general debate, Mr Petr Bendl is. I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u16	Good day, colleagues, colleagues, Minister. I'll try to be short. I want to say some things to remind you of the past, because here it looks from the debate as if the Minister had ruled or been a minister for, like, five years, because when we call for the removal of bureaucracy and how bad it is, and we say here how we are going to do something bad for Czech farmers again, I just have to remind you, it won't give me that the esteemed colleagues who have spoken before me have been kicking the Minister here for eight years, that they could have changed the situation for eight years. And that, of course, in the situation in which we are here, is from a significant part of the inheritance that we are taking over. But in order to be objective, I must also remind you that the bill that is here has certainly been produced not for three months, the Minister will confirm it, but more like three quarters of a year, that means that it is largely still the work of the former administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. And a number of things, and I have to say objectively again, responds to that, the bill, to the pest situation that we had here in the last parliamentary term, and we were supposed to top them up from another time. He was not only a vole, but also a beggar, wolves, wild pig, and others that we will have to deal with, I hope in the hunting law, soon or at least this year to deal with the situation. Here the bill responds to the field vole and some other situations that we have in the Czech Republic in this area. Unfortunately, it is not possible - from experience you know, those who have been involved in this professionally for a long time - to draw a line between the competence of the Ministry of Health and the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, it will always be intertwined. [[The environment?]] And we, who were in the agricultural committee during the last parliamentary term, were united in what we wanted from the Ministry of the Environment, but the Ministry of the Environment was taking a different approach, so I'm just reminding you that this debate is never and will never be completely simple. It was possible to react much faster, much more efficiently to the field vole's overgrowth, I am deeply convinced of that, but the Ministry of the Environment did not want to. My colleague I'm sure she'll confirm that, even though she blames the Minister of Agriculture here, as she's prepared to do, he's probably already invented it. Well, he couldn't come up with it, because we know the law of competence, and we know that it's based on communication between different departments, and sometimes that resortism is bad. In our case, in the case of the Plant Health Act, there is a third ministry, and this is the Ministry of Health. [[10.50 hours]] And I confirm what colleague Kott and colleague Pražák said here. There is really a problem in the area of the use of individual products, because the Czech Republic is a small market in fruit and vegetables, and as the development of these preparations in Europe goes forward, so some producers and manufacturers of new products are not worth the effort to implement on the Czech market, and fruit and vegetable farmers rightly point us out that we are losing competitiveness, because our certification process - and I believe that the Minister of Agriculture is hearing this well, and I hope that the Minister of Health or our colleagues who are on the Health Committee should also hear this - that our certification process, which each producer has to undergo, is expensive and long, is handicapped by the Czech food producers in the area of fruit and vegetables, and with that we should do something together, even though I do not like it at this moment - we have yet discussed the first reading of the law - we are already here to talk about whether we have already prepared a novel. No, I think that we would devote the maximum of the debate that will be going on in the course of the weeks that will follow, whether we can do something now, whether we are able to negotiate with colleagues from the Health Committee, the Ministry of Health and possibly the Ministry of the Environment on some of the changes that we have had in the past - together, I point out - because we were all talking about this with the former Minister of the Environment - we, then the opposition, you coalitionists, and we were not able to force the Ministry of the Environment to react more quickly as we once imagined. But the Minister of the Environment didn't see it that way. That's why I'm here to say that this line isn't a thick line, there's always gonna be some if, and eventually, the natural person who has the competence in that place, whether it's the nature and landscape conservation authority or the department of the Ministry of Agriculture or someone else defined. Otherwise, I would point out that this really is a problem with those products, that we should look for common forces, how the certification process and the use of these preparations - here they need to be certified in Germany, in the strong, agricultural-strong countries of the European Union - so that the product simply gets here and we allow our fruit farmers and farmers to use it, because unfortunately, it does not pay the producers due to our legislation and the price it costs. If we want to do something about this, then we have to do it together, and I would almost be convinced that the problem will not be the Minister of Agriculture, I mean the Department of Agriculture, but rather the Ministry of Health, because the certification process concerns them in particular and their competences. Thank you for your attention, and I hope we can come to a conclusion. After all, we will have time for professional debate between first, second and third readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, but your performance has raised two factual points. The first person to comment is Mr David Pražák, so I will ask him to come to the speaker's desk. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u18	Thank you. Mr. Colleague, you have an extraordinary gift to repeat the things that have fallen. You repeated what I said that the problem was not - I did not dig into the Minister, I repeated that there is a problem with certification of plant protection products between the State Health Institute, the UHIS and so on. It was nothing against the Minister. I'd hate to hear the rhetoric that "you didn't do anything or you did it wrong, so we're not gonna do anything either." That's what it sounds like, 'cause you guys at the show say you could have done it, and you didn't. Yes, maybe you're right, on the other hand, you're already in government, you're no longer in opposition, you're in coalition, which means we'd like you to do better the steps we did wrong. So far, I feel like you're not doing any. That's another thing. And one last thing, I have to respond. I don't know if you've noticed, or your fellow officers, citizens, you're right, Mr. Former Minister Bendle... [[President: Through Madam President.]] ... through Madam President - yes, I apologise - the last eight years YES - yes, I am sorry, my colleague - eight years YES have been with the Government and the Minister of Agriculture has been there for the ČSSD. But imagine that before there was a minister for KDU-ČSL, Mr. Marian Jurečka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Josef Kott is the other one who is on the verdict. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will not be so addressed to my colleague Petr Bendl, through Madam President. I agree with that, and I did not say anything wrong with the Ministry, but I said that I believe that the people at the Central Audit and Testing Institute of Agriculture are literate, that they are competent, and that when they make a decision in the framework of the authorisation or registration process, so that there is no need for a health institution that always brings it all down to them. So I fully support the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I just took the liberty of saying that within this law, we should do everything we can to simplify and speed things up, the Ministry of Agriculture simply has it within its competence, and for that reason I am convinced that if it does, it will do it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Those were all factual points. Another person who is enrolled in the general debate is Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Before I give her my word, I'd take the liberty of reading an apology. Mr Patrik Nacher apologises, from 11 to 13.15 for reasons of work. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u22	Hello, coworkers and colleagues, I have a better voice today and I'm without paper, for those who hate paperwork. But that's yet to come. Since we have a new minister, we could do things differently, and probably better, and I'd really like that very much. My previous speakers here have said everything since we met on the agricultural committee with representatives - or on the subcommittee - with representatives of fruit farmers, all of whom we have problems. And I would like to give a little example here and respond to a sentence that my colleague said we were papal rather than the Pope, and I would like to ask the Minister from this place to really start doing things differently and better, and he will certainly find in us co-operating, who will raise their hand for the new and better steps, especially if it is for our people. Many or some of you know that I was also a councillor in the Zlín Region for the environment and agriculture - so I was written "for agriculture and the environment" on the sign, of which the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, when he visited me there, fell down - and I was there during the period when we had the calamity of the voles. Of course, farmers, because they knew that I was a farmer's heart, came with requests for permission to throw baits for the voles, and there came also a farmer who married us. He was Ital, he's got orchards, and he's got a greenery garden, and he wasn't surprised. I just want to tell you that he was really telling me, Signorina, you stupid here, you're doing everything against your people. We don't know that at all, we're doing everything we can to ease the stupid ideas that are coming, to help our people, but we're not going to destroy ourselves. And I would actually like to show in this sentence that this person was not surprised how much more papal we are, and because Italy was part of the EU, he knew the conditions because his father was managing there, and he wondered that we have stricter rules than they do and we do nothing against it. And I tried in vain to tell him that our officials were afraid of breaking something, so we're gonna tighten it up, and we're gonna put it down. [[11.00 hours]] And I, Minister, from this place, please find courage and let us do it differently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u23	Thank you, ma'am. I am also calling for an application from the place where Mr Karel Tureček is reporting. Isn't that right, Mr. Ambassador, you applied from the scene? Please come to the speaker's desk and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to stress that we do not have a problem with the proposal, we are prepared to support this proposal. However, in line with the explanatory memorandum that the past leadership handed over to the minister here, and he only transferred it to the government and to the House, we draw attention to the pitfalls and the scope for improvement in the field of plant health care. And, of course, cutting red tape is certainly the main objective, and I am glad to hear that a common goal. However, unfortunately, this brings time to the aforementioned amendment of the law. I think that practically during the transformation period between 1990 and 1994, the Ministry of Agriculture prepared laws, their amendments, three times a year. Of course, they responded to the appropriate measures that took time. The same was true in terms of the pre-accession period or in the first years of entry, when the common agricultural policy was implemented into our legal system. Like the Special Plant Health Act has been amended twice, three times a year. So I think that at the moment this is a big challenge for the whole of Europe, the common agricultural policy, and also for the Minister of Agriculture personally, because, as I pointed out last time when the Minister of Agriculture was absent, he has to realise that he will be chairing the Council of Agriculture Ministers from 1 July, and that is very important for the Department of Agriculture, because the common agricultural policy, I dare say, is the only common agricultural policy in the framework of the 28-year-old, and he will participate in the formulation of the common agricultural policy, which will respond precisely to the food crisis, which will undoubtedly bring the crisis to Europe in Ukraine. And at that point, he will not just be one among the equals, among the colleagues of the twenty-eight, he will chair them, so in this regard he will have an exceptional position as President of the Council of Ministers to propose topics for discussion. And this can undoubtedly be one of the topics for discussion, as it is the problems that have been named here by previous speakers, to bring into the real life of the common agricultural policy. So I would ask him again, possibly for an answer, my third question: How can we possibly face this challenge within the framework of my Presidency in the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union and in the light of the issue of phytosanitary care? And, as has already been well mentioned here, I would like to personally, because it is a topic that will certainly be worth a deeper discussion also in the framework of practical preparations for the Presidency in the Czech Republic, so I would propose an extension of the 30-day committee discussion of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u25	So there was a proposal for an extension of 30 days in the general debate. At the moment, because the Minister has also made a proposal here to shorten the deadline, but since the Minister for Agriculture is not a Member, and according to the Rules of Procedure in the general debate, this proposal can only be made by a Member, I have been informed that Mr Karel Smetana will speak with this proposal at the moment. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to adopt the Minister's proposal here and propose in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shortening the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u27	So I'm just going to add to the proposal that was made here by Karel Tureček. If the deadline is 30 days, it must be with the agreement of the appellant, so I will need the applicant's opinion at this time. [[The Minister's response.]] Minister, I need your opinion. We don't understand each other at the moment. Mr Smetana made a proposal to shorten the deadline for 30 days, but Mr Karel Tureček made a proposal for 30 days extension. And once it's more than 20 days, it has to be expressed and accepted by the plaintiff, otherwise the proposal is unvoteable. That is why I call on the appellant to comment on this. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u28	As I said in my introductory words, I repeat: I am asking for the possibility of a short hearing in committees for 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u29	This means that regarding the proposal made here by Mr Karel Tureček to extend the deadline, I need you to agree or disagree. [[I disagree.]] Thank you very much. In that case, this proposal is unvoting at the moment. We are still in the general debate, I see that Mr Karel Tureček is reporting again at this time. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u30	The shortening of the deadline goes a bit contrary to the speech by my colleague Bendl here, through Madam President. Okay, so the Minister doesn't agree with extending the deadline for 30 days. It is a pity, because I think that the things that will undoubtedly bring the food crisis across Europe, and it will have an impact on this plant health care law, we could successfully capture, for example, in the Guarantee Committee on Agriculture, as we managed to arrange the first such anti-crisis measures through the political spectrum yesterday. So I will appeal once again to the extension of the deadline, and this time I propose an extension of 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So we have two suggestions at this point: a reduction to 30 days and an extension of 20 days. At this point, I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? I don't see anybody, I'm done with the general debate, I'm gonna get started. At this point, I'm going to ask if there's any interest in final words? Is the Minister of Agriculture interested in being a rapporteur? Yes, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u32	Thank you. I'm just here to refresh my memory. This technical amendment to the Plant Health Care Act has already been discussed by the former Government on 25 January 2021 and it has been on 8 February 2021 in the Chamber of Deputies for more than one year. So please, let's not delay this tech novel, and let's move on as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. I have announced that the rapporteur, Mr Lukáš Vlček, does not want the final word. I must say that there has not been any proposal to refer the motion to the appellant for completion, there has not been a motion for rejection, so we will now deal with the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see no other proposal, so at this point, we will proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Who abstained? I note that during the vote 122 174 Members were enrolled, 168 were in favour, no one opposed, 6 abstained. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has therefore been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Let me ask you, does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? I see Mr. Richard Brabec reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u34	The blue team already know what committee I'm coming with, so I would like to suggest - no, those weren't the blue team, those were the other blue team - to suggest the commandment of this press to the environmental committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u35	Thank you. I'll ask if there's another suggestion? I see Mr. Pražák, I ask the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u36	So we have rarely agreed here with our colleagues from the ODS or with our colleague Bendl, through Madam President, that the State Health Institute is not helping us there for a little bit until the registrations - as I should say politely - so I would suggest to the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-003-007.u37	Once again, I've registered the Health Committee, okay. Is there any other proposal? I am not filing any further proposal, so we will now deal with the vote on these two proposals individually. So there's the first proposal from Mr. Richard Brabec at the moment. There's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your voting cards. We'll wait until the numbers are stable. The first thing we will be voting on is the proposal that this House press be directed to the Committee on the Environment. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Who abstained? I note that 171 Members were enrolled in the 123 vote, 80 in favour, no one opposed, 91 abstained. The motion was not accepted. Another thing we will have to deal with was the proposal for this House press to be directed to the Health Committee. We all know what we're going to vote on right now. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Who abstained? I note that 171 Members were enrolled in the 124 vote, 79 against 8, 84 abstained. The motion was not accepted. Now we still have to deal with the proposals that have been made in the general debate. The first one to fall was to shorten the deadline to 30 days. We all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Who abstained? I note that 171 Members were enrolled in the vote 125, 91 against 77, and they abstained from 3. The proposal was adopted, so we have approved a shortened deadline for discussion for 30 days. The next proposal is unvoting at the moment. I am done discussing this House press. However, I see two factual points here, Mrs Eva Decroix and my colleague, Mr Jan Bureš, with a factual point. [[They're not interested in a word.]] No, thank you, so I'm also erasing. Thank you for your response. We are now coming to a further discussion on this point.
