ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u1	3. Government bill on measures in the field of education in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops /German press 172/ - shortened negotiations But before his discussion - the House press... [[The original point remains on the board.]] Sorry, I'm just gonna ask... Yes, I'm just checking that we still have, still... [[Consulting off the microphone.]] Yes, well, thank you - in accordance with Paragraph 99 (5) we should assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations. [[13.20 hours]] I'm opening the debate. If no one applies, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I shall call my fellow Members from the lobby and make a motion for a resolution. Before that, I'm interested in checking out. I checked you all out, and please log in with your cards. I will now make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for discussing the Government's draft law on measures in the field of education in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, the House press 172, in the shortened negotiations'. I'm gonna reengage. We'll wait until the number of entries is stable... Looks like he's settled down. We will therefore now vote on the motion for a resolution. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 116 Members and Members registered, for 115, against no one. The motion has been approved. I am now opening another point, the Government's proposal for a law on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, the House's 172st, shortened negotiations. The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Petr Gazdík. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam President. Let me justify, for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the proposal for a law on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, House press 172. From the Ministry of Education, this is a quick solution to the most serious problems in the field of education for the arrivals from Ukraine. Please note that we are 14 days from the beginning of the conflict, however, children from Ukraine have already sat in many Czech schools in the past and this week, and this bill is the most necessary thing we want to do to ensure that directors do not have to break the law both in terms of educational content for Ukrainian children, so that they can approach the situation rationally, quickly and effectively. The Ministry of Education has made it possible to submit comments on the proposal. The relevant ones have been processed. Coalition MPs have been addressed, but all members of the school committee and all members of the Senate's education committee have been addressed. We consulted all school associations on the proposal and also consulted on the matter of redistributing individual pupils in case of insufficient capacity with the regions and the regions expressed their agreement to this proposal. The main thesis of the proposal is the regulation of admission to pre-school, primary, secondary and higher vocational education: in the case of pre-school and basic education, the rule on how to proceed where applicants cannot be accepted due to full register capacity, in the case of secondary schools, conservatory and higher vocational schools, the possibility of participation of pupils from Ukraine in the first round of admission procedures, i.e. the extension of the deadline for submission of applications, the extension of the time for admission examination. In the amendment, there is also the possibility to take an exam in the Ukrainian or English language of mathematics, the possibility to replace the documents needed for acceptance by an honest statement, which is not an institute for students of Czech schools, also the possibility of admission to the ongoing first year of secondary or higher vocational school. Other objectives of the proposal are specific rules on the content of the training of such persons. This provision is essential for school directors to be able to educate incoming pupils outside the framework education programmes, or school education programmes, and to organise teaching in another regime. Exemption of incoming persons from fees for nostrification of previous education. The Ministry of Education and the Government monitors and evaluates the situation. In the future, it does not rule out further legislation, because this is indeed the most necessary thing we have to do so that Ukrainian children can be educated here by the end of this school year, that is, by June. What the situation will look like in June and what the situation should look like next will be the subject of another bill at the time, which we will be happy to consult with all members of the school committee and associations and will depend on the situation that will be in June and the number of children who will be able to accept our education. Thank you for your attention and I very much ask you to accept this bill. If it is accepted, it will simplify the situation and administrative matters for all school and teacher directors and the professional space for which the directors and teachers are waiting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 172/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Pavel Klíma, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Thank you. Please, you have the floor. I am just asking - if anyone is making a point of fact, we are not yet in the debate. Yes? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, before I read the resolution of last night's meeting of the Education Committee, that is, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, let me just say that once again, as previous rapporteurs, they stated that there were substantive concrete discussions on the committees, so it was also here on the Education Committee. And I will take one sentence for starters: in order to help children from Ukraine as effectively as possible, we simply need to help directors and founders to cope without breaking their laws. So let me introduce you to the resolution of 38 Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports of the 8th meeting of 10 March 2022 on the Government Bill on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, House press 172. Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, after the justification of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports, Petr Gazdík, Mr Pavel Klíma's report and after the debate I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to close its negotiations by 11 March 2022 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that the Government's draft law on measures in the field of education in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation, the House press 172, should give its consent in the submitted version; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations. So much for the text of the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I ask you to take your place at the rapporteur's table. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers from the lobby. I will use this time and just remind you, Mr Kobza has made a point of fact. But a factual point responds to the debate, which means that you can only sign up after someone has spoken and responded to it. Yes? Thank you. Once again, I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will now decide whether to hold a general debate with Parliament's press 172. The number of entries seems to have stabilized, so I can... I can still see the running, and I'll check you out. I heard a request. I'm signing you off, and I'm asking you all to sign up with your cards. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal that we hold a general debate, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In vote number nine, 97 Members and Members, for 96, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am opening a general debate in which I have the priority right of President Marek Výborný. I do not see the President here, so we will be dealing with the other applicants and the first duly registered is Mr Jan Berki. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Olga Richterová Group, Renáta Zajíčková and Members of Jan Berki, Stanislav Fridrich, Per Gazdík, Pavel Klíma and Marek Výborný, I will briefly present to you the amendment that was introduced into the system yesterday at quarter to ten as House document 610. At the same time, it was forwarded to the rapporteur and the managing officer. The amendment, respectively. His principles were also discussed on last night's committee and, in principle, in my opinion, there was agreement on them. The first adjustment is the division of entries into two rounds, where the first round is, say, proper, and the second round, which should take place in June or at the latest in the first half of July, is intended for Ukrainian children. There, in principle, we allow the Director to divide this for easier administration, and the second reason is that he has the opportunity to find out what capacity may need to be increased. The second adaptation is the adaptation of Section 3, to which the kindergarten is added, i.e. the individualisation or the possibility of individualisation of teaching according to, say, the special programme. It is therefore also related to children in kindergarten. The third change is, as the Minister has already announced, the possibility of a foreigner, this time we are talking about the entrance exam at secondary school, taking a written test from mathematics either in the Czech, Ukrainian or English language. Then the fourth modification is an exception to the requirement of knowledge of the Czech language. I merely point out, in the context of the end of the amendment, that this exemption would be by the end of this school year and would in principle allow the Director to hire a homogeneous group consisting only of pupils - children of Ukrainian, teacher, teacher for a period of less than 12 months in this case. At the same time, they would not have to demonstrate the knowledge of the Czech language and could teach in this very homogeneous group. And once again, at this point, the proposed section 6 is only valid until the end of this school year. A further modification is then an exception to hygiene requirements. In principle, at a time when the Director will have premises in which he can enable teaching and so decides and so asks for a capacity increase, the new paragraph makes it possible - both until the end of this law or until a shorter period if the Director asks for a shorter period of time - to register an increase in capacity, but at the same time the expression of the building office and the Public Health Office will not be required in this process, and therefore the classical requirements for classes will not apply temporarily to these premises. There are also special rules for higher education. This was the proposal initially received by members and members of the school committee. A minor modification is nostrification in principle in accordance with current rules in the sense that it will be carried out by a school with institutional accreditation. If the student is accepted to college without institutional accreditation, it is possible to do so in agreement with the university with institutional accreditation. Finally, I would just like to thank all those who, since the publication of the intention that we have actually received before the debate in the government, for collecting incentives, for providing incentives, for constructive discussion on this, and also thank the MŠMT team for helping us very much to prepare this amendment so that we can respond to those initiatives from the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. We will continue the general debate. Mr Jiří Kobza is now on the record and Mr Stanislav Fridrich will be prepared. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In the morning, there was some pretty serious information about the incidence of diseases such as tuberculosis and so on, and now unfortunately, there is no Minister Válek here, I wanted to ask how it was taken into account that children who come into classes, whether they have health control, whether they are going through some screening, so that this risk is eliminated, how their vaccination and even infectivity are secured as such. And I am asking this not only as an MP, but also as a parent of a compulsory child, because I would say it touches me personally, because I know that my daughter has already gotten a new classmate from Ukraine into class, so I would like to know how the health care part is actually taken into account, if it falls under the Ministry of Education, under the Ministry of Health, who is in charge of it, what the responsibility of the school is in this case and how this issue is taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This is the Minister with an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u10	The answer is very simple, Mr. Ambassador. The exact same rules apply to incoming Ukrainian children as to Czech children. The rules on vaccination for kindergarten schools, there is a direct obligation for all vaccinations for admission to kindergarten. This is not the case with compulsory schooling. However, the recommendation of the Ministry of Education will be that these children go through medical examinations at some time. We can see it ideally and we will recommend it to schools to invite a pediatrician directly to the school to agree in advance with the parents so that whoever has the vaccination papers to present them - because Ukraine does not have a bad vaccination system at all, Ukraine is simply not some Central African Republic or something - and this is how they deal with it. Of course, we'll proceed, and the Department of Health, although I'm not the Minister of Health, will keep an eye on these things. Please note that we are in a state of war dealing with a real crisis. The aim of the Ministry of Education is also during the transitional period, we will say by the end of this school year, to create so-called Ukrainian one-classes and classrooms where Ukrainian children will prevail. That's what we're trying to do. However, yes, of course there will be cases, a large part of the cases where they go to mainstream schools, we really can't stop that, and here we can only make recommendations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u11	Thank you, Minister. A statement of fact shall be made by the Member, and then by you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Romana Bělohlávková is reporting from the point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u12	Hello. I allow myself to answer as a pediatrician, because I understand your concern, these are questions that I've been hearing quite often from my patients' parents lately. The first thing I'm going to tell you is that Ukraine, unlike the Czech Republic, did not cancel the vaccination against tuberculosis, so really Ukrainian children between the fourth and fifth days after birth have BCG vaccinations. And to see if they have it, it's really easy, because you can subtract a scar on your left shoulder. As for the next vaccination, let us be honest. There are different vaccinations, but just as the Minister said, also Czech children who are not properly vaccinated, and unfortunately we also have such children, go to preschool education and school without restrictions. So we have no special rules, no special exceptions for Ukrainian children. But since the fear of tuberculosis is most common, there really is a very, very high, almost 100% vaccination. Every child born in Ukraine in the hospital was vaccinated against tuberculosis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. Now, Mr Kobza, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u14	Thank you. And thank you, my colleague, for the explanation. So if I understand correctly, that means, between entering school and any health check can go any time, there's no limit. And then I wanted to ask, the minister mentioned that we were at war, so I guess I missed it. I wanted to ask who and who declared war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u15	Thank you. Given that I do not see any further factual point or any preferential right, we will continue to be duly entered into the general debate. I will now ask Mr Stanislav Fridrich and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly introduce you to the Yes club's position on this bill. It is probably not worth repeating the framework in which this law arises, so I would like to thank both the Minister and the Ministry of Education for the fact that this draft law has indeed been consulted and discussed in detail with the opposition. We even got the first draft before the government meeting. We were able to comment on this and then prepare our comments. I have to say that they've all been worked out. In fact, a single vote on the school committee and the fact that I had the opportunity to become co-chair of this bill are also evidence of this. So it was voted in unison. It may be pointless to repeat everything that the Minister has already said, and to comment very much on this, my colleague Berki, who went through the point after the point, actually the complex amendment. So I would like to thank you for our cooperation, stress the importance of the law, and say that we will be both for the comprehensive amendment and for the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Zdeněk Kettner for his contribution in the general debate and Mrs Renáta Zajíčková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I just have a matter-of-fact question about the Minister of Health, whom I apologize to in view of his medical condition, I don't know if the Minister can possibly represent him. We were having fun, the question I had before, the school committee said that as far as the infectivity of the children, the Ukrainian children would be looked at as our children, and that it was in the gesture of the Minister of Health who was working on it. So just a matter of fact, if the methodology is already being drawn up and if it's already been dealt with by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u19	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u20	I apologise to the honourable Member, but I didn't record any new information between last night and tonight's lunch, so I'm going to give you the same answer as yesterday. There's work to be done on the methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u21	Thank you. And now with priority rights, President Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Government, Minister, colleagues, I will be very brief. I would like to thank the Minister here first, but also the entire team of the Ministry of Education and finally also colleagues from the school committee, including colleagues from the opposition, because in this way I imagine the really consensual preparation of key laws, in this case lex Ukraine - education. About what was said here. I will not repeat what the Minister or colleague Berki has already said. However, it is also necessary to know that some things need not be regulated by law during this special time. It is important to know that frequent questions about why lex Ukraine - education does not address pre-school education enough, for example, and, first, through an amendment, we have incorporated the fact that there is a derogation for framework education programmes as well as pre-school education, i.e. heads of kindergartens and heads of kindergartens will be covered in this sense. This is not just about other levels of regional education. But what is important to know - and again, the key thing that led us to the individual points of the amendment is the reflection of what the founders, school directors, regional crisis centers are dealing with at the moment, because that is where they are facing the problems. And quite frankly, let's just say, we will not only inflate the capacity of nursery schools in the Czech Republic now, not only in Prague and in the ring around Prague, but often also in rural regions. Somewhere maybe one more, there are two places, but we'll be forced to deal with everything else through the children's groups. And it does not regulate this law, but the previous one, which was presented here by Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. So we are partly dealing with pre-school education through the possibility of setting up an extraordinarily after 31 January of the children's group, it is completely... and including funding, I stress this. It is then entirely within the competence of the individual founders. The key thing in this law that we are discussing here, and especially with regard to the amendment that was made within the Education Committee, i.e. in the Ministry of Education after the debate and discussion, is the possibility of accepting above the capacity itself, both in individual classes and schools as a whole. [[13.50 hours]] But then also remember that it is possible to create so-called adaptation groups that are not anchored anywhere in the law need not be anchored. This is the practice that is already in some cities today, for example, as far as I know, in Pardubice, the statutory city of Pardubice has already done so and for those Ukrainian children it creates the so-called adaptation groups. It is possible to use the mothers who came with the children, there are exceptions to the qualifications in the case of a school assistant. He's not a teacher. The teaching assistant is a teacher, the school assistant is not a teaching worker, so it is possible to use the mothers there without a problem, which of course do not carry any diploma or some proof of qualifications. So we go as far as possible towards the terrain, as far as possible to ensure that children can join homogeneous Ukrainian groups over the course of some time, in the next days or weeks, or, if there is a place, in those Czech classes and school groups, or children's groups. I consider this to be very important, both ways. There's nothing worse than that Ukrainian kid who was in Kharkov the day before yesterday and had a war on his own, he's gonna be locked up in a hostel somewhere and surfing on his cell phone for a week and figuring out what's going on at home. We really need it out of this environment to rip out this in the quotes of virtual reality. And education and education are the very area where this can be successfully done. This is indeed very important, and therefore I thank you for supporting this law, as amended by the amendment itself. It has a second effect. If, for example, in the positions of those school assistants, they succeed in employing those Ukrainian mothers, the women who come here, they can earn money beyond what has been discussed here in the previous points, whether the humanitarian contribution of 5,000 is little or much, and so on, so that we give them the opportunity to get them into the system, they will be employed, so they will pay health insurance and so on. So, of course, it has the double advantage, and that's why we're trying to allow those women and moms to take advantage of it in this way. So much in brief I wanted to remind you of some things that you will not all find in this law, because something will be dealt with by the Minister or addressed at these moments already by preparing methodological guidelines which will be directed towards directors or even founders. So much probably very briefly for me and thank you for supporting this law as amended by the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I will now ask for the speech of Mrs Renáta Zajíčková in the general debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u24	Good afternoon, everyone. It's actually all been said. In fact, I would also like to thank all those who participated in both the first version and the amendment. I am very glad that we were able to depolitize ourselves when discussing this point or this topic, because it is primarily about children, both Ukrainian and Czech. Of course, we are all aware of the seriousness of the situation. Every day there are hundreds, thousands of children coming to our cities. I can say for Prague that the situation here in Prague is very dramatic because, as has already been said here, Prague does not have enough kindergartens for its Czech children. About 20 percent of three-year-old Czech children were not admitted to kindergartens, so kindergarten schools are struggling with capacity. Of course, this is also true of some primary schools. This law allows school founders and school directors to increase their capacity and simplifies the rules for children to be accepted. As has already been said here, the work of the Ministry of Education needs to be appreciated, because they were really fast and they listened to our demands, our comments that we, as Members, had on these proposals. Almost all of them worked together, just to enable the education of Ukrainian children, but it was not at the expense of our Czech children. This must be stressed because our Czech children also went through a very difficult period, two years of covid essentially decimated, if I may say so, our Czech schools. There are burned-out teachers, catching up on teaching, so there's really a very complicated environment. That's what this situation has come up with. And it is always necessary to consider this comprehensively, and as I say, this law should just simplify the situation for founders, directors and at the same time create the quality of our schools to continue at a very high level. It said here that the methodology was being prepared. I think it will be very detailed that he will give the directors an exact guide on how to proceed in individual situations. I also like the fact that, in addition to the methodology, the Ministry prepares a description of Ukrainian education so that those directors and teachers know the conditions under which Ukrainian children are educated, what educational programs they have, what methods they may use there. So, once again, I repeat a really big thank you to the entire Ministry of Education and to all the Members who have been involved in both the original proposal and the amendment. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u25	Thank you, too, Madame. I currently have no application for a general debate. I wonder if that's the case. No one's coming forward, and I'm ending the general debate. I'll read an apology. Today, from 12.00 to 13.45 for work reasons, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan apologizes. Before I open up a detailed debate, I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur will take the floor. Or can I open a detailed debate, Minister? In that case, I am opening up a detailed debate and recall that the amendments made in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Jan Berki has applied for the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I, on this behalf of the whole group, mentioned in the general debate, subscribe to the amendment, which is in House document number 610. It included a justification and I justified it in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u27	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, I'm ending a detailed debate. Do I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur want the final word? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u28	Finally, I would just like to thank everyone across the political spectrum who participated in the proposal. I think the House will leave a very good proposal that reflects the acute practical situation that the directors and teachers must address. I really appreciate that we were able to unite and the result is to simplify the situation for the terrain. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u29	Thank you. The rapporteur? Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u30	I use my right to thank the team of the Ministry of Education, the team of the Minister and colleagues across the political spectrum, as we have been able to put this together within a few days so that assistance in schools is sustainable. What does sustainable mean? There must be accommodations, employment opportunities, places in schools. The 15th, 16th day of the war, we just can't predict how it's going to go. We trust directors and founders that they will best assess the possibilities of their territory, and this law will help them work temporarily with the capacity of receiving Ukrainian children into kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, solve the employment of Ukrainian teachers, assistants, the possibility of not teaching according to the RVP and so on. All of this is defined by the law in normal days. We're on the air seeing how they're handling it, and we can't let them do it like we did in a pandemic. They must not move outside the law and these transitional provisions will help them do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u31	Thank you, rapporteur. That concludes the second reading of this proposal. I will now introduce you, honourable Members, to the proposal for further action. I wonder if it is possible for us to proceed immediately and proceed to the third reading vote for all three press without this amendment being distributed to you as Members on tables? I don't see any contradiction from the diaper with this proposed procedure. This means that, under the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' Clubs, I am now declaring a ten-minute sanitary break. I will ask the club presidents to gather Members and Members into the hall, and we will proceed to the third reading of all three laws of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-11-ps2021-015-01-003-003.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the programme under discussion. For starters, let me read the note. Today, for reasons of employment from 14:00 to the end of the day, Minister Ivan Bartoš apologizes. Furthermore, today from 14.02 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work, Mrs Věra Adámková apologises. We will now proceed to the first point that we will discuss at the third reading.
