ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 45/2013 Coll., on victims of crimes and on the amendment of certain laws (the Act on Victims of Crimes), as amended, and some other laws /German press 86/ - second reading I will ask him to come to the counter - and here I have to report that there is a change, I have here that, under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will not be made by the Minister of Justice, but as it is announced and, as I have in writing, by the Minister of Culture, Mr Martin Baxa. I will ask him to take the floor for the petitioners and at the same time ask the rapporteur, Mrs Taťána malý. I would now like to see the proposal put forward by the relevant Minister, Minister of Culture, Mr Martin Baxa. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to apologize to the Minister of Justice, Dr. Pavel Blažek, and to speak for him only a very short word on this bill, because it is a second reading. The proposed amendment to the Criminal Code and other regulations has already been discussed in the previous parliamentary term, when unfortunately the legislative process has not been completed, although it is an implementing regulation that responds to more European regulations. In relation to one implemented European Regulation, the implementation period has already expired on 31 May 2021 and the next will expire in June of this year. The proposal specifically responds to the adoption of Directive 2019/713 of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud in the field of cash-free payment instruments and their counterfeiting. The implementation period for this Directive has already expired on 31 May 2021. The materials further incorporate the requirements of the Directive and the Regulation in connection with ECRIS and ECRIS-TCN, which create a so-called central system for the identification of EU Member States, which should keep information on convictions of third-country nationals, stateless persons and persons whose nationality has not been established in their criminal records. The implementation period of Directive ECRIS expired on 28. 6. 2022. The launch of ECRIS-TCN is only possible after all Member States confirm that all necessary technical and legal measures have been implemented, so that the unprepared Member State will prevent the launch of the ECRIS-TCN system throughout the EU, planned in 2022, which is most likely during the time of our Presidency. The adoption of this law is thus necessary in order to ensure links to the European system for the identification of Member States which have condemned third-country nationals, which constitutes a mechanism to ensure effective exchange of information on the condemnation of this group of persons, and is an important step towards strengthening the EU's internal security, improving external border control and preventing illegal migration. As part of the first reading on 11 January 2022, there was no debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u3	Minister, thank you very much for bringing this bill forward, and I would now like to say that we have ordered the proposal, first reading, to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 86/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mrs Taťána Malá, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present here the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the 4th meeting held on 19 January 2022, when the 'Constitutional and Legal Committee': I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal; II. recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to adopt the following amendments to this bill, that is to say, in Art. point 31 is deleted and the following points are amended; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; IV. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee to report on the results of the examination of this draft law at a meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations." As regards the amendments, three amendments were included in the system, which will be read in a detailed debate, and those who submit them are justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur and Member of Taťána. It is small that she informed us about the discussion of the proposal in the Constitutional Legal Committee and introduced us to possible amendments, which will still be heard here today. At this point, I would like to open a general debate in which I see that Mrs Helena Válková is registered. I'll ask her to come to the speaker's desk. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'm just here to fill in the information you heard a moment ago from the rapporteur. Of course, I will not speak at all about what is briefly here, but clearly presented by the petitioner representing the Minister of Justice, because there I think we have really discussed this and it is a clear diction, it is our commitments. We recommend most of us on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. But I wanted to draw your attention to one of the related regulations that was also designed to be amended in this amendment. It has already been said that there has been a position taken by the Constitutional Legal Committee, namely the Law on victims of crimes No. 45/2013 Coll. In particular, it was that the proposal, which originally was, was launched by § 28 para. 2 in which there is a possibility to take account when the court finally decides on the claims, even if those claims of the injured person do not coincide with those that are taxatically calculated in the relevant provision of the Law on victims of criminal offences. So there is some contradiction that the Ministry of Justice, or the Minister of Justice, has made with his proposal, so he would have dropped the whole thing. Well, that's always the easiest solution, but not the most unfavorable, and certainly not for victims of crime, so that's what we've proposed to release it. The Constitutional Legal Committee has agreed to this in its majority, it is within the framework of the resolution. However, there was another suggestion, and I'll be talking about it in a minute. So chronologically, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with us and after the discussions, came to the conclusion that the text could not be deleted, but better rephrased to remove the contradictions that are currently there, but brought a certain system into it on the other hand. That is why there is an amendment, which was just inserted under number 474, which says in Section 28 para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (b) or (d) if their amount has already been decided by final judgment. So instead of releasing, which has not been approved by the constitutionally-legal committee, we are giving a more precise diction of the wording. This is an amendment that we have also put in there with Mrs Mala, to meet the requirement which is being made out of practice to reconcile the differences between what is in one law, what is in one provision, in another provision and in the administrative order. And the other proposal, which was also discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, however, which I have put forward, drew my attention to certain legislative inaccuracies that Mrs Mala and I have reworked after consultation. This concerns a situation where we are basically extending the time limit, which is currently in Section 30 para. 2 established as exclusive to child victims of sexual crimes: sexual abuse, rape so that those children who, at six, seven years of age, still have no idea of the extent to which they were affected by their human dignity, the damage they suffered, that the exclusivity period for applying their claim for compensation would be longer. So the provision would read: "A request for financial assistance may be lodged with the Ministry within two years of the date on which the victim learned of the damage or non-property damage caused by the crime, but no later than five years after the commission of the offence, or the law is extinguished. " If that period has ended later, the right shall cease to exist. [[12.00 hours]] So if the boy or the girl submits at 15, then there is still that deadline, and it happened to him as a child, such an attack on his sexual integrity does not die, and in practice we know that children's victims are discriminated against by the current text, because the request for cash assistance can be filed with the Ministry not later than two years from the date on which the victim became aware of harm or property damage, or within five years of committing the crime, and very often those underage children, six-, seven-year-olds, respectively, do not serve 100%, because they do not know. And if they know, they're not capable of it. So we are correcting this, it is now also a legislatively pure text, so I am asking for your support, and this second amendment, although it was inserted there earlier, is under number 374, which amends the provisions of Section 30 para. 2, again the law on victims of crimes. So you see, I'm going to make one educational remark that even if this novel is about something completely different, once bona fide is in there, some little loophole change that bothers you in practice can cause these problems. But I suppose we have now succeeded in eliminating this by the amendments. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u7	Thank you, ma'am. We are still in the general debate and next is Mr Radek Koten. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u8	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of the fact that the criminal code is open after a long period of time, because amendments to the laws that we have put into the system are not even discussed in the opposition window, and therefore there is nothing left but our bills to put in the form of amendments to the laws that are government. I would basically read here an amendment that changes in Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, House press number 86, and I would read the change. Point 1. In Part One, Amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure in Art. 1. the following paragraph 3 is inserted after point 1 (Roman X), first: Paragraph 9 shall be inserted: " (3) the necessary defence is, on the contrary, if the defence is directed against a person who has trespassed through the use of violence or threat of imminent violence, or if he overcomes an obstacle which is intended to prevent entry, if such action may cause a defender to be concerned about the life or health of his or any other present person.' I will give a brief explanation here, and then I will read it in a detailed debate. The legislation in force too limits the cases of the necessary defence, which must be strengthened in view of the ever-increasing aggression of criminals, which concerns, in particular, violations of house freedom, when the perpetrator tries to violently enter a home or similar private space, regardless of the fact that someone is present. The main principle of strengthening the necessary defence is therefore to provide citizens with a higher degree of security and security so that they do not have to worry about using adequate tools and means when someone violates their home freedom, they will try to enter their homes and make them feel that the perpetrator can endanger their health or even their life. The new regulation anchors the principle of "my house, my castle," which is part of some foreign arrangements, strengthens the position and self-confidence of a citizen who is attacked in his home and intends to defend himself from fearing the subsequent prosecution by the state authorities when he used adequate tools against a perpetrator who is often armed. In such a case, the assailant takes the risk that, if justified by fear of endangering the property, health or life of an entitled person, the victim will defend himself effectively, but without any penalty from the State. The amendment of the law is intended to serve as a defence necessary in a situation where the necessary defence would not have to be from the unprotected space, and at the same time specifies the requirement of the law that it must be an imminent or ongoing attack, as, according to the current regulation, the defender, for example, must wait in his home for the attacker to be directly attacked if he does not want to risk prosecution. For example, shooting through the inner door to the attacker who has already entered the protected area and has overcome the obstacle can also be used as an appropriate example. At the same time, the new regulation covers a situation where the attack is being waged against another person present and the defender intervenes in its behalf. The limits to the use of the necessary defense are set by the so-called legitimate concern, which suppresses the possibility of possible abuse, such as the legitimate concern of the defender, for example, the conduct of the defense may be very far away or against the fleeing attacker. He can't do that. The conclusion on the fulfilment or non-fulfilment of the necessary defence in the protection of dwellings will be taken by the court, but the important thing is that the assessment of the adequacy of the necessary defence will be based on how the circumstances of the attack appeared to the defender, not the attacker. The proposed regulation follows the current development of the caselaw, which aims to increasingly respect and strengthen the behaviour and authorisation of the injured in an unexpected situation of life, to which it is necessary to respond immediately. The importance of this proposal is confirmed, for example, by the Pilsen case last year, when the owner of the house defended himself and his wife from entering the attacker's legally held gun. Later, it even turned out that a robber had committed the murder of a senior for money in the past. It was a brutal murder, and it was extremely dangerous. I will apply to this in a detailed debate and it is registered as House document number 475. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u9	Mr. Ambassador, thank you, and I ask if anyone else wants to speak in the context of the general debate? I don't see anybody, in which case I'm done... sorry, so here's the minister. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, I would only respond to Mr Radek Koten. What he's been lecturing here is the SPD proposal. The government has clearly taken a negative position on this, because the proposal was discussed both at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, at the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, and all these institutions clearly had a negative view that the proposal cannot remain this way, that it is poorly prepared and would have quite bad consequences in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u11	Thank you and I ask again if anyone wants to speak in the general debate? I still see Mrs. Helena Válková. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u12	Thank you. Just a factual remark, confirming the words of the previous speaker. We've had a similar proposal here once for the last election. There are a number of inaccuracies, and I think that the practice and the caselaw of the highest courts in particular shows that if we go some way, the one that has just been presented and well-founded by Mr Koten, however, in practice would have the opposite effect. I am afraid that if we were to agree to it in the third reading, there might be some disunity in the application and we would have to change other related provisions. I can't make any more of a de facto comment than I did to discuss it. [[12.10 hours]] And once again it is proof that when we open one law, it is very dangerous to open the laws, even though the criminal code is the one we have opened, but the provisions and issues that are not directly related to the main amendment intended to amend the criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u13	That was a factual point, thank you for keeping the time limit. So I ask again if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate? At this point, I see no one, so I conclude a general debate and ask if the appellant or rapporteur is interested in the final word? It's not. So I would like to start a detailed debate here and just remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. And Mr. Radek Koten came forward first. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would therefore, after the justification in the general debate, submit to my amendment, which is therefore under the number of House document number 475. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u15	Thank you and I will ask another debate, this is Mrs Helena Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u16	I will do the same, but with other amendments. Thus, those amendments, which I have already justified in the general debate, have been inserted into the system under the number 374 and 474. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-008-003.u17	Thank you, Madame. I do not see anyone still reporting, so this concludes a detailed debate. Do I ask the plaintiff or the rapporteur if they are interested in the final word? No, thank you. This concludes the second reading of this proposal. I thank the appellant and thank the rapporteur. And let me start discussing the next point, and that is
