ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 16th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I hereby declare that the reasons for not taking part in today's proceedings were requested by these Members: Adámková Věra within 13 hours - working grounds, Babiš Andrej by 14.30 - working reasons, Bačíková Jana - Jan Richter, Balaštíková Margita - Rais Vích, Bělohlávková Romana from 18 to 21 Válková Helena, Bernard Josef - Wenzl Lubomír, Blaha Stanislav - family Wenzl, Brázdil Milan within 14 hours - Svoboda reasons, Dražilová Lenka - Pošarová Patrik, Němečková Lochman - Bohuslav Crkvenjaš, Kohan Kamal within 13 hours - working Viktor, Vrána Petr Vondráček Radek Ondřej, Fridrich Stanislav - family reasons, Golasowská Pavla - health reasons, Kášníková David - Vojtko Jiří, Radovan Ožanová - Zuzana grounds, Pastuchová Pavel - health reasons, Klíma Pavel - working reasons, Růžička Pavel, Kohajda Michaela - working reasons. The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr - foreign trip, Baxa Martin from 18:00 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš until 11:00 - working reasons, Blažek Pavel - working reasons, Gazdík Petr until 15:00 - working reasons, Jurečka Marian - working reasons, Kupka Martin from 14:30 to 15:30 - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 18:00 - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk - working reasons, Síkela Jozef - foreign trip, Šalomoun Michal - working reasons. Furthermore, Mr Mašek of 24 and 25 apologizes. 3. for medical reasons. I'm so sorry. And today's meeting should begin first with information about yesterday's elections and then with points 115, House press 180 - Government proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence, paragraph 75, House press 178 - statement of the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, I'm reading now how today's programme is going to be, so please listen to me so you know what's going to happen today. And I also beg you to calm down, for the reason that we need a screen record here, and in such a noise, it really makes it hard for employees to work. Thank you. I'm begging for peace one more time. Next, we will proceed with paragraph 76, House press 179, which is the testimony of the Agreement on the Establishment of the International Investment Bank, paragraph 63, House press 98-E - Declaration of prior consent to the proposal for a Council regulation on the establishment of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, paragraph 64, House printing 42 - Agreement between the Czech Republic and Finland, paragraph 65, House printing 44 - Agreement between the Czech Republic and Great Britain, followed by paragraph 66, House printing 45 - Agreement on the International Financial Corporation, paragraph 69, House printing 135 - Agreement between the EU and Qatar on Air Transport, paragraph 70, House printing 142 - Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Preventing the Investigation and Suppression of Customs Delicacies, paragraph 71, House printing 149 - Treaty between the Czech Republic and Sri Lanka, paragraph 72, House printing 155 - Treaty on Social Security between the Czech Republic and Mongolia, paragraph 73, House printing 156 - Treaty on Social Security between the Czech Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina, followed by paragraph 74, House printing 157 - Treaty on Social Security between the Czech Republic and Brazil. And if I'm not mistaken, except for point 66, which is at second reading, the others should be at first reading. And then we would continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda of the meeting, which are points from the block of laws, first reading. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be dealing with point 119, which is oral questioning. After paragraph 119, we would discuss points according to the approved agenda, or points from the so-called opposition window if they were designed. This is information on how the negotiations should take place today. And now I'm asking if anyone has a proposal to change the approved program? And I have an application here, Mr. Tomio Okamura reporting with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, for three days we have been trying to get answers from Prime Minister Petr Fiala and representatives of the ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and TOP 09 on the political business of the STAN movement, when their MEP and so far Vice-President Stanislav Polčák asked for a commission of CZK 8 million for the enforcement of the Act on compensation to municipalities around Vrbětice. We all voted for this, but Mr. Polčák forgot to tell us here that on the basis of the adoption of this law, for which he lobbied here, he wanted to cash out $8 million. [[9.10 hours]] That's what we all voted for. But Mr. Polčák forgot to tell us here that based on the adoption of this law, for which he lobbied here, he wanted to cash out $8 million. Now there's news because it turns out that other STAN politicians were supposed to get commissions from this money. Specifically, it is Mayor Vlachovic Zdeněk Hověžák, whom we have seen here and who lobbied here together with the other mayors for this law. We all remember who was in the House during the last parliamentary term, lobbying in this group for this law. But he didn't tell any of us that if we raised our hand for the law, as we all raised our hand unanimously, he would claim CZK 1.16 million for it. And he is once again a member of the STAN movement. This reward was proposed by Councillor Vlachovic, who are again behind STAN. This means the STAN movement, the Mayors and the independent - it is probably a common business-policy method that, when they make public-money subsidies, they subsequently divide commissions or rewards for this public-money subsidy. These are all representatives of the STAN - Ladislav Obadal movement STAN, the deputy mayor of this village, which suggests the mayor of this village Zdeněk Hověžák and a friend of Stanislav Polčák. I think it's really crazy. And here we have - he has finally arrived - the Chairman of the STAN movement and the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. I think, Minister, that you should take a clear position on this. Because, Minister of the Interior and First Vice Prime Minister and Chairman of the STAN movement you know Rakušan, this is not your first case. Because you haven't said the names of the end-owners who sponsored you, sponsored your campaign for Pirates and STAN. Furthermore, of course, we all know what happened to your next Vice-President. Or what Věslav Michalik, Vice-President of the STAN movement, also sponsored your company from tax havens in Cyprus, and you wanted to push it through to the Minister of Industry. Then, under media pressure, you withdrew this nomination. You said you wanted to promote a different culture, but you forgot to tell us before the election that the other culture meant the worse, the worse. You forgot to tell us that, too. Then there was Mr. Farský. Also, one of the top representatives of the STAN movement, a member of the Farský movement, to whom you cheated the voters, when before the elections you had in the coalition treaty written to the voters that your Members would be fully committed to the work of the Member. And then after a long talk... Mr Farský has kept citizens from the election from going to work in the United States. He wanted to double it, those functions, and after a lot of pressure, he stepped down. Now here's another co-founder of the STAN movement. These are all just the top representatives of the STAN movement who split commissions for when there is a subsidy or a law. I think that your political-business project called STAN really goes beyond the limits. Again, I stress that we have all voted in favour of the compensation to those municipalities affected by the explosions. So that's not what we're talking about. The problem is that none of your representatives of the STAN movement, Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the STAN movement, have told us here, none of your politicians have told us here that they will subsequently receive millions of commissions for this. I think it's a huge conflict of interest. It's just typical, I have to say today that it's becoming a standard, that it's the political business of the STAN movement. So, as I announced on Tuesday, we started collecting signatures under an emergency meeting. We reached out to the YES movement, we agreed on it. So I assume we'll be able to collect the signatures together. We would like to propose this point - and I would like to propose it again today - a point called the Political and Business Project of the STAN movement - as the first point. And if you refuse again -- like we suggested it here on Tuesday, and it was rejected. On Wednesday, when the opposition suggested it here, you vetoed the votes of the five-party MPs, including the pirát. The pirates were also part of the veto that the pirát agreed to conceal it and not to talk about why this happens, that your politicians want to collect millions of commissions from public money when subsidies come. I am certainly glad, Minister of the Interior, Chairman STAN and First Vice Prime Minister, that you are finally sitting here. Because I have called on your colleague, Petr Gazdík, the Minister of Education and Vice-President of the STAN movement, to ask your close associate and friend Stanislav Polčák to submit a list of all the contracts he has as a lawyer and his law firm for the term of office of the MEP who he has billed for public money, respectively, for public money. Minister of Education and Vice-President of the STAN Gazdík movement refused to respond to this question, refused to respond. Or that means no. And, yes, now Mr. Gazdík here says - I hear him here, he's about two meters away from me - that he doesn't see why they should show it. Well, I'll tell you why. Because it is not until after the vote that we learn that we have basically been misled and that we have not been informed of a conflict of interest. This is so that the public and all of us can see whether, by any chance, other "customies" were also filled by MEP STAN - or other politicians of STAN - with commissions or rewards. That's why it is, Minister Gazdík. You want to hide it, and we want it to be transparent. So this is the important question, because it is necessary to check the list at the same time, so that everyone can look at it and compare it with those cities and municipalities - because there is definitely opposition everywhere in the Czech Republic - if there were any other orders. I do not understand why the Minister of Education and Vice-President STAN are resisting this. Why are you resisting this information? You were talking about the SPD. We are the opposition party, we were never in government. All of us and you are controlled by the Office for the Management of Political Parties. Citizen got us all a fine, all of us. I have the right information. The ODS got a fine in the past, I remember, the pirát got a ticket, the SPD got a ticket. It's just that every side gets a ticket. Because the law was new, as you know. There was no explanation, and we all learned that gradually on the Internet. So once again, it would be fair to say that, gradually, the smaller fines - it was not eight million, as Mr Polčák wanted to cash out, nor 1.16 million, as Mayor Vlachovice Mr Hověžák wants to cash out - the fines for all political parties were, I believe, in the order of about hundreds of thousands, to the maximum in total. That means, that's another thing. We're all in control here. So don't distract me again. The important thing is why your politicians here are cashing in public money. And it's even worse from today's point of view. Because Czech citizens are plagued by price increases. As I was saying, it's data from the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences. After all, it was in a news article this weekend. So this year, 40% of the increase in new executions is six months ago. And it's precisely because people are losing control of the price increase. [[9.20 hours]] So it takes every crown, and it would actually be necessary for a government other than yours to be in government. And the SPD's been pushing you into this for a long time, so you can finally help people with the expensive stuff. All the surrounding states have taken broad measures. The flat measures have been taken! They either cut the VAT, or they put down prices and stuff like that. And you haven't made any functional or area measures against the price increase. It's just that citizens see it, you can make a hundred excuses here, citizens can see it clearly, that's why they go shopping in Poland. There's no need to make excuses. There's no need to say if you've done anything or not. Even if you do something, the result is basically zero. So it's just-- it's still bad, even if you do something, okay? But even from the point of view of the upheaval - and the SPD stands up for the citizens, we fight for them to deal with the upheaval, but we are in opposition - here, of course, if your government comes up with anything, it will be mainly thanks to the opposition and the SPD, because we are pushing you hard here. Because it is not a priority for you to help Czech citizens. Now, as you know, it will be the anniversary of a hundred days of government rule, but half a year after the election and half a year, your government coalition in the House has had a majority, so even in the form of parliamentary proposals, you could have proposed laws here for six months, expensive treatment could have been solved, health care could have been better available - on the contrary, it gets worse there, as we know. And you don't have time for Czech citizens, your government, you don't do anything for them. You're dealing with everything else, and I'm talking about six months now other than Czech citizens. That means, in light of the price increase, and we're fighting for Czech citizens, we're fighting for decent citizens, the SPD, and you're cursing us for fighting for them. Petr Fiala, as the entire House saw here, on Tuesday, after I asked him whether he was able to condemn or comment on the $8 million commission for MEP Stan Stanislav Polčák, he came to me here in angrily to my bench and in front of the entire MP's club, that is, there are a number of Members' witnesses, even I think the ANO Members who are sitting there also threatened me. And he said, quote, he's gonna pay me back. And I asked him that he would give me back the fact that I asked him whether he would condemn - and you all saw my question - whether he was able to condemn or express himself, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, on whether it was right or wrong that Stanislav Polčák, as MEP and Vice-President of the STAN, had asked for 8 million of public money without informing us in advance. We voted on it here, he lobbied with the mayors for it, but no one told us that after we voted for it, they were essentially the only two people who were supposed to cash out almost 10 million crowns of public money. Now, now that it's like - and other times it would be wrong - but when there's no money and when we have more needed here, we have Czech citizens here. That means -- and Prime Minister Fiala followed me there and threatened to pay me back. I asked him how he was gonna pay me back. Our MPs overheard it, all of them, there's a number of witnesses. I asked him if he'd pay me back by sending CSI after me? He's gonna send the police after me? For what? Perhaps the BIS would send for me? What kind of threats are they? I understand, yes, you're right, Secretary of Defense Černochová says to the Prime Minister's address: whine, whine, whine. Well, I know that - I also didn't understand why he was coming to me and whining to me, I didn't get that at all, he could say that on a microphone. He was supposed to say his reaction to the microphone, according to the Rules of Procedure, the room's talking to the microphone. That's where he was supposed to say, "I'll pay you back." But he didn't specify how. So we can expect some bullying methods? Again, any lies from Home Secretary Rakušan, any list of disinformers without evidence will be published here just to exploit the Ministry for the fight against political competition? I think that you should concentrate fully on this, and that is what I wanted to ask the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and the President of STAN, if you would take a stand, that is all I am asking if you would take a stand on the commissions that are now coming out. So I'd like to structure the questions briefly. By the way, I would now propose a point, as the first point today we propose to include a point called the political-business project of the STAN movement. Now, if I sum up the questions quite simply, you might want to take your speech somewhere else and attack other political parties again, preferably the SPD, but that's not what you're talking about, yeah, we don't have your problems. So I'd like you to answer your problems. And the first question is whether you agree that your representatives of the STAN movement collect commissions from public money for subsidies or for laws and so on, if that's what you think is right. If you think that's right, there's no need for further questions. But if you don't think it's right, because we think it's wrong, but then we don't agree generally anymore, and if you think it's wrong, the next question is, what do you want to do with it? So if you're going to create whether or not you're going to present us that list, that public list, and it should be a public list, because it's from public money, all Stanislav Polčák's contracts, and his law firm, which he had for public money, so he can publicly check whether there were any other commissions for Stanislav Polčák and other representatives of STAN. That would be fair. The next thing is that I ask if you are counting on inviting Stanislav Polčák to resign his mandate as MEP, if you think, because the European elections are coming, the elections to the European Parliament are coming up, if you think, Mr President of the STAN movement You know Austrian, that he will be a suitable candidate for you in the European Parliament for the next elections. [[Minister Gazdík in government benches moved on to Minister Austrian and spoke briefly.]] Now, the Minister of Education is here to advise you on how to respond to the STAN. So if you think that - I know you're gonna have some primaries, you're gonna pick it up at Congress, at the Assembly, but your personal opinion, if you think that such a person is appropriate for your MEP to charge commissions from these orders? And once again, the point is, Minister, one. The most important point is that he didn't tell us in advance, yeah, so we don't get off the subject. No one told us in advance, not the mayor, not Mr. Polčák, he lobbied for it, we all remember that. Because there would be a completely different situation if he came here and told us all here, here in the gallows, because he's a MEP, he's not an MP, but he's been here, he's been to my office several times, so if he had told us - yes, he's been to my office several times - but he forgot to tell us all, or he didn't tell us that he was supposed to pick up $8 million for it. That's the point. There's no other point. He didn't say anything like that to us that he's actually trading laws, he's clearly trading, because he's a lawyer and, at the same time, an MEP normally billing jobs, business, it's probably his second job, maybe there are others, we don't know, but it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter anymore. So there's a law deal, there's a law deal. And now I've even heard, there are various informations that it's your association, it's some kind of union of cities and municipalities, or not the Union of towns and villages, where Mr.Polčák is - now I don't know exactly what it's called, but I have it in my notes - it's filled with subsidies, various subsidies, and that it's supposedly bought an electric car that Mr.Polčák drives or someone who just bought a car for it. [[Unintelligible notes from the diaper.]] And there are just other and other indications, yeah, which need to be detailed, and I know that there will be questions, there will be various announcements that I have information, because it turns out that the political-business project is probably much wider and much deeper. But it might make it easier if you knew the whole thing, because you know it all, Minister, how it is, you knew it all in advance, of course you knew it, and if they didn't, they're doing it behind your back, then the question is who's running the STAN movement, who's behind the scenes. We knew that Mr. Věslav Michalik was talking about it, you knew very well about his sponsorship in advance, didn't you? You knew he was in the solar business, you knew everything, okay? [[9.30 hours]] So it's about in a nutshell those questions, and maybe the last, fourth, if you're gonna keep doing this, in this kind of political business, that your leaders are always gonna get some commission and money out of getting public money. But I think that these are some questions at the moment, but the important thing is that this point is approved here, because it is important that all opposition Members can participate widely in the debate. This means that it is necessary to approve this point here, called the Political and Business Project of the STAN movement, because if it does not approve - it must be stressed that it does not come out that Minister Rakušan here will say something and that it is as done, well it is not, because there are 92 opposition Members here and many of them would certainly like to discuss this issue on a microphone - and if you do not approve that point, they can only discuss preferential rights and these are, of course, here as saffron. That means I also want to ask you to approve that point, and either way, we're trying to call an emergency meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister Vít Rakušan will now speak with priority rights and then Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ministers, colleagues, first two technical notes before I can get a statement as such. Firstly, through the Vice-President, Mr Okamura, I really wasn't hiding from you here. In case you haven't noticed, the resort I run now has certain tasks, on the contrary, for the votes I was supposed to be here, I was here, I wasn't only present twice this week to start the meeting, but it's definitely not that I would avoid meeting with you. I really do not need this, and of course I look forward to the afternoon interpelations, from which I also did not apologize, there will certainly be a number of them. I'm sure it'll be my turn, and I'm really looking forward to using that space to answer all kinds of questions. And I think that The Home Office has nothing to be ashamed of at least in this crisis that is under way. I also want to ask you, through Madam Vice-President, for one thing. Don't drag Prime Minister Fiala into this. Prime Minister Fiala is not from the STAN movement, Prime Minister Fiala responds to all matters relating to the government itself. Speak to me, address my colleagues, address the STAN movement, you have a legitimate right to do this, but interpret here in a childish way, what he said to you behind your back, did not say to Prime Minister Fiala, childishly commenting that my colleague Gazdík will come to me and whisper something to me and so on - I do not know at all, through Madam President, where you are entitled to this. I have no comment about who you're talking to right now, and I don't care. And most importantly, I think Prime Minister Fiala will always comment on the things that concern the government itself. This is about the STAN movement, and I'm happy to get on with it, and I'm not going to do it by attacking you or your movement or anyone else. I'll come forward with humility. No political party chairman, neither you nor anybody else who's in this room likes it when his people make mistakes. They do not like to make even gross political mistakes. And every responsible political party leader has to want people to draw their own political responsibility out of such mistakes. I don't know if you've registered it, Stanislav Polčák is no longer Vice-President of the Mayors and Independent Movement, resigned to this function, and that information is already available to the media, I'm sure you've registered it in public space. I agree with you, and it may surprise you that the situation, when he actually worked as a lawyer to represent the municipalities, had valid contracts for it, as a lawyer did a number of legal acts and from the lawyer's point of view, from the examination of the Bar and the like, there certainly was no error, but he cannot afford to fight at the same time as a politician for enforcing the law. Even if he had received and had not received - he should have received a financial reward for his lawyer's work, so I agree that the view of the situation when he performed in two roles can be seen by the public as a conflict of interest. I have said to Mr Polčák since the beginning of this vision, of course I insisted from the beginning that he cannot accept this reward, and I want to emphasise one thing - he did not accept this reward, that was already in our statement by the Mayors' and Independent Members' Club two days ago, and at this point I consider the political responsibility to be clearly correct. If you're talking about the village, Mr. Mayor Hověžák, well, you can see here, maybe you don't know how the village works. No reward was approved. No remuneration was granted to him; the remuneration of the mayor of the municipality must be approved by the council, by a special resolution, and the remuneration of the mayor of the municipality under the municipal law may be at most double his salary. So the idea that the mayor of a relatively small village would be paid a reward of more than CZK 1 million is illusionary, legally impossible. If you look at the municipality's budget, even in that approved budget line, it does not say "reward to the mayor of 1.2 million" or how much you have spoken, but it says something like "expenditure to the work of the council" and so on, it is the budgetary framework that is approved, and on that basis any remuneration to the mayor would have to be approved by a special resolution and not at that level. That would be an illegal act that doesn't exist. But now I'm gonna say one thing. If anyone thought about this and thought that something like this was possible, then it has nothing to do with the STAN movement. If anyone felt that maybe the mayor could be paid more than CZK 1 million for some subsidies, which I don't know - I don't know - I read it at night in the paper, and I'm based on what's in the budget line, there's no reward - and I'm based on it as a former mayor who is a valid law on municipalities. But I here reject Mr Okamura's words that STAN and the Mayors and independents are some sort of business project. I refuse. The mayors and independents are those Members who came here by giving them the trust of the citizens of this country. These are people who have done a lot of good political work, they are people who do good political work here too, they have better participation in the vote than the members of the SPD movement, they are people who are doing a great job at this point. We have a number of high-quality mayors and mayors all over the country who are doing their job perfectly. I feel sorry for the mistakes we make, I regret that this certainly does not improve the reputation of the STAN movement at this time, but generally look at the STAN movement as someone who behaves dishonestly in politics, it is absolutely false information and it is an interpretation that cannot work because we are behind us old, good, good work. And we, Mr Okamura, through Madam President, draw that political responsibility. If all politicians responded to their problems the way the STAN movement has reacted recently, taking responsibility, you, Mr Okamura, are no longer sitting here. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] And don't talk about it, through Madam President, that in some way I'm using the Ministry of the Interior for something. I'll tell you one thing - abuse, not abuse. You're gonna say, "You're off topic." I'll be back, you ran off the subject about five times. If the D.O.D. handles a technical report on extremism, I certainly won't keep it a secret. I don't influence her what she looks like, I don't give a political assignment, but if there's a name for a political party, she'll just show up. If that's what you think of this as abusing the Ministry, it's ridiculous. [[9.40 hours]] And if you're talking about the police investigating, that's what you said yesterday, the day before yesterday, I don't know - well, neither you nor I have any influence on that. The police will either save or they won't if she sees fit, or if you file a criminal report. Then put him down. Let's get him! You've already spoken to STAN's sponsorship. I have no information as to whether or not you have done something like this, but then, through Madam President, give some incentive. But don't say she should or shouldn't be saving the police. A politician can't just say that. It must not be said by the Minister of the Interior, and it should not, if possible, be said by any other Member, because the police would not have any political will, what any Prime Minister here will say from the microphone, really, but should not really be subject to. So the sum of the sum, I'm definitely not going to answer any of your questions here: Do you think he's an appropriate MEP? I do not ask: Do you think perhaps the President of the Fiala is an appropriate President of the MP's club? Please, let it go. Leave it to us! Leave really who we nominate there and what we think it is, or isn't appropriate, so really leave it to our movement. I know you're probably a little bored with the opposition, but I'm sure we can handle this ourselves and on the grounds of the mayor and independent movement. For another, and I have made it very clear that Stanislav Polčák will not accept any reward, even if it is a lawyer's job, I consider it the only possible solution. I clearly consider the political responsibility he has chosen to be the right step to take. And I say again, no reward to the mayor until now in the village you spoke of has been approved. Find out the facts. Of course, if any politicians say they should be approved, first it turns out they don't know the law on municipalities, and second it's just nonsense. Something like this can't happen from a legal point of view. I would like to apologize in particular to colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition. I'm sorry to keep you from working with these things. I considered it necessary to comment on this, I felt it necessary to call on Mr Okamura not to address Prime Minister Fiala on this matter, because Prime Minister Fiala certainly has more important things to do. And at the same time, I mean, I'm definitely not hiding, I'm prepared to answer questions. I understand you're proposing an emergency meeting. Let's deal with the points we have on the agenda today. I'm ready to answer your interpellation all afternoon, that's what I'm here for. I think there'll be a lot of time, because the Prime Minister is on a foreign trip. But let's focus on what's on the agenda. I think I have provided you with the basic information at this time, Mr Okamura, through Madam President. And I think that the STAN movement has shown that it can derive political responsibility from its mistakes, which I admit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u5	Thank you, Minister. President Radim Fiala will now speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. I've come to load two proposals for the opposition window, but before I can get to it, let me just briefly respond to Minister Rakušan. So we've actually learned that MEP Polčák is such an altruist that he already knew in advance that he wouldn't accept the money when he billed it, he can't even afford it, and he's actually a great guy. So I'm thinking a quote from a classic saying, "Bad guy or hero, all one family." [[A round of applause from several SPD MEPs.]] But we, Minister, are going to convene an extraordinary meeting here and we are going to ask this because we are really interested - and without anyone wanting to push you against the wall, to blame you, to be personal in these things - so it just seems to us that the spider is a little wider and that it is necessary to see how it really is, and without any personal invectors, blame, but we want to know what the STAN movement has done in the past and what kind of movement it is. So that's why I think we need to do this analysis. As far as extremism is concerned, Minister, I don't know who's doing this to you at the Ministry, we thought Mr. Hamáček was influencing these things, and the SPD filed a lawsuit against the Ministry of the Interior. I don't know if it got to you, but we just want the court to handle it, this is your Home Office game. But I'm afraid that in this situation, when you censor, you forbid websites, you may soon be burning books, renaming streets, disturbing statues - that's what's already been done - so I'm afraid I'm not quite sure how this lawsuit is going to end, but we're just gonna fight to get people to know the truth the way it is. Now, let me load two points of the opposition window. In the previous opposition window, we interrupted item number 26, House Press 3, the law on aid in material distress, which we interrupted, and I would ask you to include as point 1 of the opposition window, which means at 18 o'clock, and to continue this elaborate law. Upon agreement with the YES point 2 movement, the YES movement will read. And for the record, if there was time left, we would like to load point 3 in the opposition window, and that would be point 31, House press 8, national referendum law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So you're reading point 26, House Press 3, as the first point of the opposition window in the debate, and the third is the referendum law, paragraph 31, and the House Press 8. Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable representatives of the Government, honourable Members, Mr Okamura has spoken, the Minister of the Interior has spoken. You know that I was here yesterday with this, and I wanted to include a point on the compensation of the Vrbětice case for individual municipalities, and I was really surprised that it was vetoed by five MPs. Then last night it went on and we learned that Mayor Vlachovic wanted to pay himself a reward, which is contrary to the municipal law, that is what the Home Secretary said here, because the law says that the mayor receives a reward for his performance, receives twelve a year and can receive a maximum of fourteen, but the two must be approved by the competent authority. But when you look into the media space, it says in the media space that the councillors have already voted, the representatives have voted. I think that these things are really very serious, very serious and that they should be dealt with on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. If the Home Secretary here says that the starosta or STAN did not behave dishonestly, but Mr Polčák's conduct was dishonest, and we all know that, therefore, the step that has happened has also happened, and that is, after some pressure today, Mr Stanislav Polčák resigned from the post of First Vice-President of the Mayors and the Independents. [[That's a lie. He wasn't the first vice president.]] He wasn't? So just as vice-chairman, I apologize for this slip of the tongue. So he resigned as Vice-President of the STAN movement. [[9.50 hours]] If you look at the Facebook page of the Association of Local Authorities, a few weeks ago there was a meeting with the Government of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities, and who represented the Association of Local Authorities there? Stanislav Polčák. Look at the photos, he was present there. So I ask if Mr Stanislav Polčák resigned as Vice-President of the STAN movement - and we all know that the representative of the STAN movement is large in the Association of Local Authorities, I have already said this: the new chair of the Association of Local Authorities is Eliška Olšáková, our fellow Member for the STAN movement, Vice-President of the Association of Local Authorities is also my colleague Věrka Kovářová, so the representative of the STAN movement is large in the Association of Local Authorities. And we really believe that the things that are happening, and what we see in the media, when the media finds out and Mr. Polčák says that the municipalities have already sent out information about who they have been paid for by the legal services... So the communities have already paid for something in the past? Is that normal, this procedure? This procedure just isn't normal. And if we say today that Mr. Polčák has resigned as Vice-President, so well, and he said he will give it up, his law firm will not give it up, so his colleagues will get it. I repeat here again, the law was written by the Ministry of the Interior, the MPs across the political spectrum signed and signed this law, and we approved it in the '90s. No one is to receive any reward for this! Do you realize that? This is not possible. And that is why it is important enough for us to discuss this point. I understand that there are very important points today, the Secretary of Defense is here. That is why I would like to propose this item on the agenda of today's meeting as the fourth point after the important points that we have today, after paragraphs 115, 75 and 76, the fourth point entitled Indemnification of the village - case Vrbětice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u9	Thank you. I would like to ask you now, because I am registered with priority rights, if any of my colleagues can relieve me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u10	I wish you all a good morning. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to some of the speeches and comments that have been made here. As regards Mr Polčák as a lawyer and as a reward. It was clearly said here that he gave up the reward. [[Room noise from the left.]] He also made a statement stating that, in agreement with the municipalities, he had thus been deprived of confidentiality in quotation marks, and in his statement also answered some of the questions raised and provided some information on legal services following the approval of the mayors of the municipalities concerned, and these are the following. The Member states that the work of the lawyer, together with his colleagues for the municipalities, includes three basic areas of legal services, legal advice on compensation and compensation, satisfaction as a result of the explosion of the ammunition warehouse area, and the administration of public contracts in connection with the use of funds paid to the municipalities and, thirdly, legal advice to citizens who fail to reach compensation because of the definition of legal conditions of the eligibility criteria. This scope was defined in contracts which were mostly approved by municipalities. In no way, says Stanislav Polčák, it is not a commission for the enforcement of the law, as it is clear from the above, and so, as the listzpravy.cz said. At present, Mr Stanislav Polčák and his colleagues are still handling requests from dozens of citizens who are turning to ask for help because they are not remembered by the law. The municipalities have already sent them information about who they have been paid for by their legal representation. Stanislav Polčák also deduced, as has been said here, political responsibility and resigned as Vice-President of the movement. So much information from Stanislav Polčák's statement. I must say that I do not like here the purposeful behaviour of the fifth column of the Russian Federation, which attacks here from the House on Stanislav Polčák, on the person who stood up for the municipalities that were affected by the attack by the Russian Federation - and this is documented. I also repeat - the explosion was in 2014, the law was not approved until 2021, i.e. after seven years. For six years, the government coalition was not interested in the community. Therefore, they asked Stanislav Polčák's attorney to help them with compensation, and only then did the law begin to work. And that was the result of many hundreds of hours of negotiations and the work of an attorney. Furthermore, I must state and make clear what President Okamura is constantly repeating here, through the President. He keeps saying things about Stan's gifts. And I repeat again - Stan's donations were legal, we can prove it, because the Office for the Management of Political Parties has stated that they are in order, that they are in accordance with the law. This means that the companies that provided the donations had Czech IČO, had their registered office in the Czech Republic and paid taxes in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, we went beyond the law and it was stated in the contracts that none of the donors could expect any consideration. I wonder if SPD or other parties have something similar in such donation contracts. Among other things, we have agreed and approved a resolution that we will not accept donations from legal persons. President Okamura, through Mr President, also keeps repeating the case of Mr Farský. Mr Farský gave up his parliamentary mandate. Period. You don't have to keep saying that, forgive me for saying that. And thirdly, Mr. Michalík, he also surrendered - and was not nominated - he gave up his candidacy as Minister of Industry. There have also been a few brief statements made by President Okamura, namely that the government is not concerned with the price increase, that it does not take measures on the surface, such as in Poland, such as the reduction in VAT. Just so, Mr President, if you perceive, in Poland, given the low price, petrol is already on the ration. Do you want us to end up like this? The government will take smart measures, and they deserve time. [[10.00 hours]] Among other things, you have noted here that the SPD is as pure as lilies. You mentioned the fines you were given. Yes, you have been granted the SPD movement, which has been granted the highest fine of all by the Office for the Management of Political Parties, namely 500,000. And it wasn't just because you hung the poster wrong. There were some irregularities in the books, so please call things the right name. I would also like to respond to the fact that you have mentioned here, President Okamura, through Mr President, that STAN or Mr Polčák trades in laws and that you want to see the treaties that have been concluded. Do you know what the Register of Treaties is, Mr Okamura, through Mr President? You may have been at his approval. So if you want to see what contracts the law firm has concluded, you have the opportunity, for public money, to look into the Register of Contracts if you can work with it. Furthermore, I have to reject President Fiala's statement, through the President, of his remarks that there is a play at the Ministry of the Interior. Do you have any evidence for that? The fact that you've been marked or marked - I don't know how it is - the extremist side, I don't think the Minister has marked you. [[Ambassador Okamura from the place: we'll be marked, you know that in advance.]] You know that in advance, yes. Well, I think a lot of people know what kind of party it is, what kind of movement it is in your case. So I would conclude by saying the following: If you want to know something about STAN and funding, we have a transparent account, you can take a look. Thank you for your attention and I believe that you will save some of your remarks the next time you look at the Register of Contracts and our transparent account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u12	Thank you, and with priority rights, Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová is reporting. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u13	Thank you so much for the floor. Just a brief reaction. I must say that we are still getting some answers about the STAN movement, but no one is commenting on the Association of Local Authorities, which was associated with the case and, respectively, the negotiation of this law. When you look at the media outputs, it says everywhere that it was negotiated by the Association of Local Authorities. And I'd like to say that she was here too - I'll say inaccurate - information about the conclusion of some contracts. We know from the mayors that only the power of attorney has been signed, and I stress once again that even the power of attorney must be approved by the authority of the city or the village and that all the mayors who sit here know that. And the very last: The Association of Local Authorities provides legal advice such as the Union of Towns and Municipalities. You all know that, you're paying membership fees. The association of local authorities has a number of other organizations, eseróček and so on, but if the city pays a member contribution there, it is the legal services and legal counseling that the municipality can use. What they're saying about Mr Polčák right now, so he's going to collect for what municipalities within the Association of Local Authorities can use. And the very last: I would really expect from the Ministry of the Interior, which has an authority, supervisory and control department, not that the Home Secretary here will say that the mayor didn't take the reward or take it, but that he will tell us here that his supervisory authority in these municipalities will immediately start checking whether there has been an infringement of the municipal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u14	We have now exhausted the priority rights and the proposal to amend the approved agenda will be made by Mr Aleš Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u15	Thank you very much. After that incredible performance by Vice-President Kovářová, and of course which has earned Frenetical applause from the coalition benches, I will read the point that should be in the opposition window as point 2. It is a proposal from Members Patrik Nacher, Robert Králíček, Milan Wenzl and others on financial arbiter, as amended. It is House press number 34, and I ask for his inclusion as the second point in the opposition window. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u16	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now we would deal with the vote on proposals for change. Even President Josef Cogan with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u17	I think a lot has been said about some of the points here today, and, of course, we have important work ahead of us on the laws of this state. I would like to object, veto, to the two proposals, and this is the point of President Tomio Okamura, and to Mračková Vildumetzová, both concerning Vrbetic and what we discussed here today. [[Disagree from the SPD bench.]] And I give this veto on behalf of five clubs. [[From the diaper: Which ones?]] STAN, ODS, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u18	Thank you. So it has occurred... we will not vote on the motion of President Tomio Okamura and Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. And we have three points left, three proposals for the opposition window, that is, after 6:00. The first proposal that we would vote on is the proposal by President Radim Fiala, when paragraph 26, House Press 3, the Law on Assistance in Material Need, would be placed as the first point in the opposition window and will continue to be discussed. Before we come to the vote, I'm gonna put you all on hold. I've heard the application for check-out, please log in with your cards again. And before the vote comes, I'll read the apologies. Ondřej Kolář apologizes between 9 and 9.45 for reasons of work, Michael Rataj today between 14 and 17 working reasons, Mr David Pražák between 14 and 21 because of a doctor's visit, Mr Tom Philipp for this morning's work, Mr Ivan Jáč between 12 and the end of the meeting, and Mr Ivo Vondrák between 14.30 and 21 hours for reasons of work, and Minister Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 9 to 11 for reasons of work, also Minister Vít Rakušan apologizes for today's meeting from 10 to 13 and from 18 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work and the last apology is from Róbert Teleky, who apologizes between 9 and 12 for reasons of work. [[10.10 hours]] Now we would vote on whether or not item number 26, House Press 3, the Law on aid in material distress will be included. It is President Radim Fiala's proposal, and it is an opposition window. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 46, 146 Members and Members, for 145, against no one, the proposal was accepted and we included this House press as the first point of the opposition window. The next proposal is Mr Aleš Juchelka's proposal. It proposes to include the House press 34 in the opposition window, which is the law on the financial arbiter. Yes, Mr. Ambassador? Thank you, so it is item number 2 behind House press number 3, which is behind the point that we have approved. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Voices from the O.R.: We're logged out.]] Yes, so I checked you out. [[Glee in the hall.]] Thank you for paying attention, and again, please log in and we will wait a little while for the number of entries to be settled. So we will try to vote repeatedly on Mr Juchelka's proposal. I'm opening the vote, this time I hope right, and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In the vote number 47, 146 Members and Members of Parliament, for 144, the proposal was adopted, and therefore we have approved the second point in the opposition window. Another proposal was the proposal made by President Radim Fiala. It's point 31, House Press 8. This is a law on a national referendum. The President proposes to include him as the third point in the opposition window. Initiating vote. Who's in? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In the vote number 48 registered 147, for 136, against no one, the proposal was accepted. And now I can say that we have approved three points in the opposition window. And before we proceed to discuss another point, or the first point, I will ask the President of the Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to inform us of the results of the elections that took place yesterday, on Wednesday, 23 March before the end of the day. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-24-ps2021-016-03-000-000.u19	Good morning. Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I state the results of the elections, and I will say that following the agreement of the members of the electoral committee, we have logically released these results to the media, to the Czech News Agency officially so that they are publicly known, so that we do not strain anyone, and the outcome of the elections is somehow not delayed for you and, of course, for citizens, for our voters, so that they have already been held in the media. So now I'm going to formally introduce you to them. However, it is also important for the House to be able to draw up a final resolution, and those elected to the institutions are only rightfully able to take up their duties at that moment, or their mandates will begin. So much for the introduction and now quickly the individual choices. The first secret electoral point is
