ParlaMint-CZ_2022-05-19-ps2021-024-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 24th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, first I will unsubscribe all of you, I have already checked you all out, please log in with your identification cards, or tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I have no such message yet. I called this meeting following Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of a proposal from the Government to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, May 17th of this year. I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down, because we will now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Renáta Zajíčková and Mr Tom Philipp. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone. I will therefore begin the vote on the proposal submitted to the verifier and ask who is in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 1, 103 Members and Members, for 103, no one stayed or opposed. That is why I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Renáta Zajíčková and Mr Tom Philipp. I declare that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence to the meetings by the following Members: Babiš Andrej all day for working reasons, Bačíková Jana all day for personal reasons, Balaštíková Margita all day for work reasons, Bašta Jaroslav from 15 to 16 hours for work reasons, Bělor Roman from 15.30 to 23.45 hours for work reasons, Berki Jan all day for family reasons, Dražilová Lenka all day for work reasons, DubskDubský Tomáš from 15 to 17 hours for work reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav all day for health reasons, Fiala Radim all day for personal reasons, Flek Josef from 15 to 17 hours for working reasons, Fridrich Stanislav all day for health reasons, Golasowská Pavla all day, also for health reasons, Hájek Jiří from 18 hours for family reasons, Šimon Šimon all day - personal reasons, Janulík Miloslav all day for work, KaňkovskKaňkovský Pavla Vít all day for family reasons, Kašník Pavel all day for work reasons, Klíma Pavel until 18 hours for work reasons, Kobza Jiří from 15 to 17.45 hours for work reasons, Kocmanová Klára from 15 to 16 for working Kohajda, Kojad Michael for the whole day for work reasons, Kolář Ondřej for the whole day for family reasons, Kovářová Věra from 15 to 1615 hours for work Rais, Krejza Karel for the whole day - without reason, Krutáková Jana - for the whole working day for family Ratiborský, Kučera Michal from 15 to 16 hours - without reason, Kukla Martin from 15 to 17 hours for work reasons, Lang Hubert for the whole working day for health reasons, Vladimíra Vladimíra all day for foreign travel Vondrák, Taťána Tatána all day - family reasons, Mašek Jiří, again all day - health reasons, Navrátil Jiří all day for health reasons, from Lang Hubert for the svoboda Potůčková Lucie for medical Jan, from Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdena all day for foreign travel Stržínek, Olšáková Eliška all day for family reasons, Pastuchová Jana, all day for family reasons, All Kubík, all day for Válková Helena, After working Pavel, After Staněk reasons, After Ivo Pavel, all day of work for the whole day of work for the whole day for the Šimek David for the Jan day for the whole day for the whole day of work for the whole day of work, from 16 hours of work for reasons of work, from the Šebelová day of work for reasons of work for reasons of work for reasons of work for reasons of work for Lubomír of work for reasons of work for Wenzl of work, from the Robert day for reasons of work, from the whole Michaela, from the whole day, from the whole day for reasons of work for reasons of work, from the whole day for reasons of work, from the whole day for reasons of work, from the whole day of work, from the day of work, from the same day of work, from the last time for reasons of work for reasons of work, from the last time for reasons of work for špičák of work for Julius of work for reasons of work for reasons of work for Pavel of work, from the same day for reasons of work for reasons of work for reasons of work, from the day for reasons of work, from the last time of work, from the last time of work, from the last time of work, from the last time of the last day of From the members of the government apologized: Bartoš Ivan from all day for work reasons, Baxa Martin from 15 to 17.30 hours for work reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Blažek Pavel all day for work reasons, Černochová Jana all day for work reasons, Gazdík Petr all day for health reasons, Hubáčková Anna whole day for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day due to foreign travel and Vlastimil Válek from 15 to 16 hours for work reasons. Members of Parliament, on 2 March 2022, the Government has declared since 4 March 2022 midnight in accordance with Article 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to the need to respond to a large migration wave in the territory of the Czech Republic emergency state for 30 days. The Chamber of Deputies subsequently held its 17th meeting on 29 March 2022 by its resolution No. 183 extended the duration of the emergency situation to 31 May 2022 at the request of the Government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 17 May this year, the government again asked the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period for the territory of the Czech Republic due to the need to respond to a large migration wave in the Czech Republic until 30 June 2022 until 23.59 hours. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. [[15.10 hours]] We will now proceed to our own agenda of the 24th meeting as shown on the invitation. I don't have one on the agenda or I don't see anybody. We will therefore vote on the full proposal for the 24th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm registering an interest in the check-out, so I'm asking you to re-subscribe with your ID cards. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I would remind you that we will vote on the agenda as tabled, i.e. without amendments. The number of entries has been established. Initiating vote on the agenda submitted. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 2, 123 Members and Members are registered, for 107, against 13. The motion was accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved. So we can proceed to the point
