ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u1	119. Government bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /German press 296/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The proposal for rejection and amendments were not tabled at second reading. The guarantee committee did not deal with this bill because this was decided by the Chamber of Deputies at second reading. Do I ask the plaintiff, Mr Minister, if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to briefly remind you: this amendment to the Act on the Organisation and Implementation of Social Security, the House Press 296, is presented here at third reading. The aim of this amendment is, above all, to look at how to speed up the activities of the medical assessment service, how to strengthen it, how to speed up the overall agenda, because it is a problem that our company and MPSV have been dealing with here for several years. The experiments were already here at the end of last term. So here we are doing a few things that I will just briefly sum up, which means: we are introducing a new position as a medical professional, who should be a staffing support for us to manage the agenda more quickly. And then there are also some, let's say, procedural issues, that is to say, setting deadlines for the submission of documents by the person considered to assess the state of health, refinement of the scope of the documents and also the introduction of electronic communication. So these are the major major changes. Thank you for your support and I believe in a rapid constructive discussion at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u3	Thank you, Minister. I open the debate and ask who is applying for it? Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I am sometimes critical of the Minister, here I must thank you for this proposal, because as we all know, the Medical Assessment Service is dealing with a great lack of doctors. I think that when I hear from some people that if sisters are educated at this opportunity, that they won't be so perfect as to judge, I don't think that's the case. We need to think that the reviews are going to get faster, they're going to be done faster. And the other positive thing I see in this is that nurses who qualify for this qualification can, if they are not able to work in their original job, do this job as well. So I thank the nurses for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u5	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is still applying? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u6	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, I'm just going to add a little bit more, and I'm glad my colleague Pastuchová has spoken about this. Indeed, at the time of the discussion of this draft law, which took place here in the House rather consensually, there were some doubts in the media space, but also on social networks. This concerned some patient organizations, which had already expressed some doubts in advance, that if we gave certain competences to non-medical, nevertheless medical professions - and as has already been said here, they would mostly be non-medical, but health professionals with higher education, besides nurses there are some other professions - so that they would suffer the quality of the assessments. I'd like to clearly distract those concerns here. For one thing, today and in clinical medicine, we are increasingly giving competence to non-medical professionals, and this is not only due to the lack of doctors in some fields, but also due to the change in the education of nurses and other non-medical professions, when most of them actually have higher education today, and they expand their competences. Although it has not always been nice for us doctors, we are gradually trying to give greater competence to non-medical professionals in clinical practice, but to university-educated health professionals, and I think it is not appropriate not to do this even within the Medical Assessment Service, the more so that we perceive the long term, many years, the critical lack of medical opinion services. And in order to distract those fears even more, it must be said that it is clear at this point that health professionals - non-medical workers will not be involved in a whole range of assessments. Primarily, it is expected that they will focus on this slightly simpler agenda, such as disabled people's IDs, some types of care allowance and so on. On the contrary, the most complicated agendas, which are mainly the assessment of invalidity, will remain the competence of doctors to assess services. And in addition to that, I want to say that if a non-medical medic does the evaluation, he'll check it anyway and confirm the medical evaluation service with his signature. So I also want to thank the Minister for picking up our parliamentary proposal from the past period, which we presented here sometime in May 2021 with my colleague Běhounek, that the proposal was completed. I would like to ask your fellow Members for his support. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister not to dignify in the next steps that we need in the medical assessment service, because we know that the demographic curve in doctors is relentless. If we look at the statistics, we have a huge number of doctors working there over the age of 70. And while they're trying very hard, they'll be leaving the system, of course. The Vice-President of the House of Richterová spoke of this at second reading. The changes that we need to make not only in the medical assessment system, but in the overall assessment system of people with disabilities, need to be made a number of things, and we need to start when discussing a major amendment to the Social Services Act, where we should consider the contribution to care, its overall structure and the related assessment of people with disabilities. These steps must also be taken in education. We still have inefficient communication between clinical doctors and medical assessors. We have a problem in the postgraduate education of clinical doctors, who often do not know what the Czech administration, i.e. its medical assessment service, requires of them for individual agendas. That means, if we can improve this, we can get a lot of those agendas into electronic space, so I don't think we're gonna have that much trouble in medical review. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u7	Thank you, too, and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate? I don't see anyone, in which case I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if the Minister or the rapporteur would like the final word? It's not like that. I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u8	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues. We have a very simple situation here. Neither the committee nor the second reading tabled an amendment, nor any legislative technical proposals were applied at third reading. We should therefore vote only on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-18-ps2021-045-03-002-119.u9	Okay, thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution, given that there are no amendments. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws under House press 296, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 40, 149 Members and Members registered, for proposal 146, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. Thank you. [[12.40 hours]] And I'm opening up another point in today's meeting, and that's
