ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 235/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy, Member Vladimíra Lesenská, take the position of rapporteur at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 235/2, which was delivered on 16 June 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 235/3. Now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? He's interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, colleagues. I would just like to make this proposal very briefly for an amendment to these two laws and the House's press 235. In this proposal, we are trying to address the complicated situation that has been repeatedly mentioned in recent months, and this is a relatively large complexity of administrative claims when applying for a housing contribution, which means we are really going the way to simplify the environment for those who are asking. He doesn't have to submit a new application every year, he doesn't have to document all the information every quarter, he just has to do it in a six-month period. If, of course, something changes in that household, for example, the cost of housing increases, then logically these applicants can come in that six-month period, update the information and thus obtain a higher claim of the contribution. At the same time, we also adjust the things that concern extraordinary immediate assistance, so that we are able to respond to the situation, that when energy prices increase, there will be more flexibility, more operational in decision-making, so that this form of support can really help people, so that we do not run into the places or situations that we are referring to now, that, let's just say, objectively, these people are in a difficult situation and we are not able to help them quite effectively. This is the purpose of this proposal, this House press. I think that this has been said very much at the committee's meeting, so I thank you for the constructive debate. At the same time, I will also point out that we are also increasing the degree of flexibility in drawing parental allowance with an increase in the limit from CZK 10,000 to CZK 13,000. Those are the main areas that we're trying to adjust with this. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. Do I ask whether the rapporteur is interested or not in the debate? [[He's not interested.]] Okay, thank you. I am now opening up a debate to which President Tomio Okamura has entered with priority rights. After that, Vice-President Jana Pastuchová, who is today representing President Schillerová, will perform. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long advocated reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens, so we will also support reducing the administrative burden of applying and proving entitlement to social benefits. For many people, bureaucracy is an unstoppable barrier. Every day people in need turn to me or to the SPD and desperately call for any help. Petr Fiala's government, which, on the one hand, can give the Ukrainian family up to CZK 12,000, refuses to contribute to the death of a sick Czech invalid or a stolen pensioner. I mentioned the case of old woman Vlasta Bartošová several times. To this day, I repeat, it has not been able to make a housing allowance when, after being robbed by fraud and having a pension lower than the rent at the hostel, and although it has a beggar's pension of about 8,500, the state, the government, is refusing to help it in any way. What kind of signal is that for citizens? The government does not give a damn about normal Czech citizens who have worked their whole lives because the government has money and kindness mainly for minorities and migrants. That you are not ashamed of yourself, Minister Jurečka of the KDU-ČSL! This government law to reduce administration in benefits, however beneficial it is, is just a lousy patch, because what needs to be dealt with now, inflation and expensive, not only does it solve this, but vice versa, if you just solve the cost with alms, and that's your style, then you will continue to increase inflation. Energy prices need to be reduced, not subject to expensive submission. And it's so easy it hurts. ČEZ should immediately terminate the sale of electricity abroad and sell directly to our citizens and companies at a cost of production plus a reasonable margin and sell up to surpluses abroad. That's our opinion, the SPD's opinion. CEZ, because it has a license to purchase gas, should immediately start negotiations with Gazprom and buy gas directly for the Czech Republic. That cheap gas. Just as it has democratic Germany, Austria, Hungary and Slovakia. These steps will reduce the price of electricity and gas, and this will immediately affect the prices of food, construction, industrial goods, as well as lower household spending. It's also not a problem to buy straight oil. Unfortunately, the state no longer owns the refinery. I think it is time for the state to consider deprivatizing strategic infrastructure so that it is owned by the state, as it is in many super-advanced democratic countries. But I'm going to give an example from a more distant country, which may not be one of those super-advanced ones, but in many ways, it's getting closer to them. In Mexico, for example, they have deprivatized strategic energy and the oil industry, including gas stations. Today, these state firms not only maintain ridiculously low energy prices, but from profits income goes to health, education, and pensioners. Is it communism? No, it's the right economic and social policy. Poor kids in Mexico have lunches, but also a bus or school uniform for free. What about us? They just don't get lunch with the poor guys. And when I look at the number of homeless people in Prague and the number of people living in our country on or below the poverty line, then we have to ask ourselves what level we have reached after 30 years of government. Here I would just point out that most of the government was ODS, CSSD and KDU-ČSL. The growth of society is recognised not by what technology it has, but by how it cares for its infirm fellow citizens. Ironically, the only people the government cares about, as the public sees, are migrants. I understand the feelings of people who go for better, but it's not normal for a state that has been built by those who need help today to help people who haven't contributed a penny to this state, and at the same time those who made the money, the government has bailed out and let them live. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not rhetorical turns. I have dozens of specific cases, and I bet that not only does Minister Jurečka have them, but also you, my fellow Members, because I often see from the correspondence of desperate people that they have turned to many of you. And here I would repeat it again, and I said it on Tuesday at a press conference that he writes me a huge number of citizens, I get up to 5,000 impulses a day, so we have several co-workers in the SPD, so that, as far as possible, we can at least respond to that amount of citizens as far as possible. [[9.20 hours]] One of the most common complaints out there that the government leaves people in poverty - and they're working people and pensioners - and doesn't care about them, even though they're in desperate situations because of the expensiveness, is that two state institutions don't respond at all, they don't communicate with citizens. And it is the Office of the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the present Minister Jurečka. I wouldn't say it here if the real impulses -- well, there are at least hundreds of them in a short time, that means, it's not even in dozens -- because they're in a desperate situation because of this government, because Petr Fiala's government isn't doing it, so they're trying to write emails or make phone calls to the Office of the Government, to Mr. Prime Minister, and to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, nobody answers them, and when they call and pick up the operator, she connects and it never happens that someone will pick up in those offices. This means that this is how work is set up with Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka for KDU-ČSL, he is Chairman of KDU-ČSL, and Prime Minister Fiala. That means desperate citizens can't make any calls, and no one's answering. No one's answering their phones. No one's saying the Minister is supposed to answer the phone. But it might not be a good idea to have some kind of information link, or someone who really would have those desperate citizens - and I have the evidence for that, and we have the incentives in our secretariat, and it's not in tens. These two ministries - so, of course, let's be honest again, because it concerns social affairs, so obviously the citizens will not write on some minister for legislation or I don't know who for, the minister for science. But I think it would be a good idea for citizens to really go there to meet them. Because the impenetrable wall that the government created between citizens and those ministries, I think it's a real shame, and I think it's really wrong. I would add that, of course, we're transferring the incentives to the Ministry. We're the opposition party. We're trying to tell them that we're in opposition, that if the SPD were in government, it would be different, of course, but that this government just isn't a acquisition. So we have nothing to say because we know you. You don't want to talk to us, you don't want to talk to us, so it's clear you're not even talking to the citizens. So let's move on. Many countries around the world are at war. We cannot help all people around the world affected by criminal aggression because we are a small country. But we should definitely help our poor at least. And that's all the government doesn't do. Why is it so easy for the government to put up the Ukrainian flag and, on the contrary, so hard to help a helpless Czech grandmother? Isn't that worth it? Why are you rattling with weapons instead of promoting peace and ending the war? Your sanctions have spread the Russian gas and oil consumer network around the world. Your sanctions have strengthened the ruble and the Russian economy and, on the contrary, they are clearly destroying our economy. What have the Čech and Moravan done to you to strengthen both Russia and the United States at their expense, because they are the only two countries that visibly benefit from the war? If you do not want to act like Orbán, who defends the interests of Maďar, then in this particular case act at least as Němec who, as we see, are not shy of profiting from the war and take cheap raw materials from Russia to sell them to us pretty expensive. Why, Petr Fiala's government, do you destroy both Czech households and Czech companies in such a crazy and obvious way? Do you think this beggar patch we approve of today will solve what you've done? Stupidity and ideological blindness are all private things. But the problem is that your ideology and incompetence are destroying the entire country and its citizens. I noticed that, based on the way I was talking here about the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs doesn't respond at all, it doesn't respond to citizens' stimuli, so that Minister Marian Jurečka here, who otherwise keeps his phone in his hand, maybe he made a note of something. So if you take at least the fact that you start helping people out of my performance and at least start by setting up some kind of line or information service so that people can get some answers to some little advice, I think that would be a little positive step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Vice-President of the ANO club Jana Pastuchová and then the Minister, also with priority, are registered with priority rights. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear fellow Members, Minister, allow me to comment on this bill for the club of the ANO movement. There are three points. We agree, of course, to simplify the payment of the housing allowance and to reduce the administration. Expanding extraordinary immediate aid and simplification, we also have no problem with that. The only point we don't like a little bit is that, while you're suggesting that some families can choose more quickly. I understand, given what's happening to the energy now. However, I must thank the Minister for sending me his statistics after an emergency, how many families are involved, which now draw 10,000 and will be able to draw 13,000. For your information, it's from January to May - I'll just say the last May issue - total parental contributions are 308 004. Of which, this contribution of 10,000 draws 71 363. We have pointed out that we are surprised that the Minister, as a representative of KDU-ČSL and pirát, who were very much married to families with children here in the past period, may have done something here, increased, but, on the other hand, did not add a crown to the families and the parental contribution. So I know the Pirate Party had in their program, they even talked about it in the media, they're gonna propose an increase. It was supposed to be 300 to some 345 grand, if I'm not mistaken. I think that if Mr., by your means, was standing in opposition here, Minister Jurečka was behind the KDU, and we filed this without any increase, he will also definitely propose an increase here. So we have an amendment when we propose an increase in the parental contribution from 300 to 400 thousand. Another amendment - a colleague of the SPD, through you, has a lower point. I will be really curious about the vote of the Pirate Party, which advocated an increase in parental contribution. Another thing to point out, or I pointed out to her here last time, that I understand your increase from 10 to 13 grand. We picked it up from 7 to 10,000 in the last parliamentary term. I'm asking, if you do the math, that parental allowance will be exhausted by some families seven months before it's in the thousands. I asked for statistics, which I don't think is how much parenting allowance of 10,000 families actually draw - outside of students, because we know that students who can't document - are also unfortunately not working. The unworkers who are born a child, and they're going to the employment office to marry the lowest parent who goes, drains it, and then returns to welfare. So now we're gonna have them there seven months early. So this brings me to our next amendment, which Mrs Lenka Dražilová has read here. So we're adjusting the possibility of drawing an increase, a parental contribution from 10 to 13,000, with students being excluded from it - we support them - but we also want those people to work a little bit and not just go for parental contributions. So that's the amendment. [[9.30 hours]] And one last thing. I would like to thank the government for doing something, but I think it's still slow. I'm going back to the 5,000 only for the kids until their 18th birthday. It's approved, but there's nothing we can do about it. Just the next time you write your election program, don't get the support of families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Madame. Minister Jurečka will now perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor. Before I give you my word, I will read my apologies: President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologises from 9.30 to 10.45 for reasons of work, and Mr Jan Richter apologizes for today's day because of illness; Mrs Eva Decroix apologises for the whole day for personal reasons; President Alena Schillerová apologises for the whole day for working reasons. And one more message - Mrs Válková cancels her apology. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. Madam President, I volunteered because I have to respond. Mr Okamura, through Madam President, do not lie! You're just a pathetic liar who stepped up here, and either you don't know that, and you're a stupid MP who doesn't know what he's voting on, or you're a dirty liar. Because here at the beginning of your speech today that 12,000 people receive Ukrainian families as part of their solidarity contribution, perhaps no sane Member of this House can say that! Because you need to know what you voted for. Or don't you know? Do you know or don't you know what you're voting for here? I feel like you don't know. We all agreed here that the solidarity contribution is the income of the Czech household that accommodated someone. Not Ukrainian families. On purpose, you walk here, you spread hate, you say total nonsense, and you deliberately lie. So here you go, apologize to the microphone that the solidarity contribution - either you're wrong or you did it on purpose. And apologize. It was really rude of you to say that here. If you're saying we're not communicating, I'm calling you now, if you're a man, come to the MPSV for a week, to the resort, come. Come to our house for a week. Sit in the call center... Come on, if you're up for it, come on, we'll put you in the call center, I'll put you on the e-mail, and you can see hundreds of e-mails we e-mail every day, and the phone calls we make. Like the questions of Czech citizens, seniors, people and people with disabilities, which we answer. Come. You're criticizing that the authorities aren't communicating. So for your previous coalition government, which you supported when you looked at the websites of institutions such as the CSSS and the Labour Office, there was only one contact point, and that was the vending machine you called to, and there, according to the ones, the two, which divided you, who connects you, and it took tens of minutes. You haven't changed that. Today, if you look, not only do people from the Ministry's management, including the Minister, but also people from the Labor Office, from the ČSSS, starting with the central directors after the district officials' directors, they have their cell phones posted on the website so that they can be caught up so that those people know where to call to face the feedback of those people. You're lying twice. Then you say that we are not helping Czech citizens and Czech people. What kind of nonsense is that? I don't know. Mr. Okamura isn't listening to me right now. It's hard to talk to him if he doesn't want to hear it. So just for the sake of interest to the rest of you: Every month the labor authorities pay support, whether in the context of social assistance or material emergency, 1.4 million Czech citizens and every month it averages around 9.3 billion crowns this year. For example, single moms have support around CZK 16 to CZK 29,000. We increased pensions this year on the basis of legal valuation - I note legal valorisation - by CZK 2,500 on average. We've increased life's existential minimum, next week the government will raise it again. So don't say here that it doesn't help Czech households, people who are in some difficult situation. I think the Czech Republic has a decent social system in terms of the scope of possible support. Yes, it is our common task to tune it up so that some moments that are there are complicated that create blind windows to remove them. And that's what we're working on. But what you've done here has been pure manipulation, lying, enviing hatred and the ignorance of a Member who doesn't know what he's voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Tomio Okamura. Are you going with the facts or with priority rights, please? [[In fact.]] Okay. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, to insults and invectives and to who is stupid and who is not, I will not really respond to that from the chairman of the three percent KDU-ČSL. You can't make me do that. That'll evaluate the voters, and maybe we'll be downstairs, sometime, and you'll be upstairs. So you're not worth it for me to respond to your attacks. Because what I saw here last night, when President Pekarová Adamová attacked in exactly the same arrogant way and made fools of the entire ANO parliamentary club, that's really your government rhetoric, your nervousness as your preferences go down, and you fell in half. And you have a tension in your KDU-ČSL, where many people don't want you to be chairman anymore, Mr. Jurečka, through me, because you've pulled the party into half the preference, so please don't take these out on me. These are your problems, you deal with them and continue this rhetoric. Because with this aggressive, crazy rhetoric, you're pulling your side down more and more. And as for the housing allowance, I'm right. You're using the terminus technicus "a contribution to housing," and I say it's a contribution to housing for Czech families who accommodate Ukrainian families, it could have been about 12,000. I don't know what you're talking about. I'm right. What are you talking about? You're overwhelmed by some bureaucracy of yours, for a normal citizen, it's just a housing allowance for that Ukrainian family to get to the Czech family. What's the problem? So don't play games here. And as far as I'm sitting in the ministry, I don't want anything to do with you, nor with your government, Mr. Jurečka, it's all your responsibility, these desperate suggestions that you want to transfer your responsibility for that botched government to the opposition side, you can have it. Don't drag us into your problems. It's all your fault. You're responsible for millions of people being in trouble, you're responsible for people being in trouble, and it's all your responsibility. So I don't want anything to do with you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u11	Thank you for keeping time. In fact, Minister Jurečka came forward. In fact, or with priority? [[In fact, I'm applying.]] Okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u12	Madam President, I will calm you down, Mr Okamura. I don't want anything to do with you, either. If I want anything to do with any Okamura, it's Hayato Okamura, but what you're doing, I really don't want anything to do with you. And just look at the transcript of your speech that you said here, you were talking about the sum of 12,000 crowns of solidarity contribution that Ukrainian refugees are drawing on it. That's what I responded to. You've avoided that, you've come to the debate here on purpose. And if you're really saying that someone isn't communicating, then come to the Social Committee. I'm communicating, I'm responding, I'm responding, the Ministry is responding, there's no censorship that was in the past when the MP asked or the senator, the senator, the MPSV, so the secretary had to know about it from the house. No. Members will come, need advice on the changeling, fine-tune it, our people have full instructions to make maximum synergies. That wasn't here in the past. So don't blame me for not communicating here. I communicate with anyone who comes to me. The fact that we don't agree, I don't give a positive opinion in the finals, that's a matter of looking at some specific things. But it's not true that my colleagues and I don't communicate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Jakob has now signed up with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Tomio Okamura, through Madam President, your populism is absolutely outrageous. The way you divide people is totally irresponsible, and we're not going down to your level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, too. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Richterová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point out and remind you that the openness of the office has completely changed. Of course, the culture that has been there for years, the culture of non-communication, the culture that it really was - and that, in my opinion, is absolutely scandalous - the ban on communicating with Members and Members has changed. And I want to point out that, in addition to these things that may not be of interest to citizens, that goes hand in hand, of course, with the fact that we are now making simplifications that have been missing here for years. So the key thing I would like those who are watching this House's meeting to take away is that after many and many years of tightening screws, both for workers at the offices of work and for those who have come there for help, we are now clearly saying: do not be ashamed to say for help, who needs help, has to get it, it is not okay for you to meet, if necessary, with some inquisitive action, we are simplifying it. And this press that we have here today is something that I very much cared about, so that we can come to the simplification of the housing allowance. It will start gradually, gradually shrinking the requirements for, for example, the homeowners, who have to deliver to the tenants, which, of course, is a big barrier to the conclusion of contracts for people who need a housing allowance. In the same way, I think it will be very good that it will be sufficient to take photos of documents on the mobile phone, only in case of doubt will the inspection be dealt with. From my point of view, the crucial thing is that in the past, there have been various unnecessary administrative obstacles of the type - every year to 1. 7. it had to apply again and again for a housing allowance, although nothing has changed in the situation of a person, such as a senior or a senior. We're fixing that. Likewise, in the future, people will only be able to document the costs twice a year, not four times today. So every quarter today is a huge strain on people and the workers. I also wanted to point out that there was something here that, unfortunately, the previous speaker called very much in the past, and it turned out that it didn't work in practice. So let me get this straight. I'm very glad we're communicating. It is very difficult to change the situation after many and many years when communication was de facto forbidden. But we're also simplifying. That's what the state should do. At the same time, however, we are trying to balance what we can do, swift measures, with what budgetary options are. And I would like to remind you of one last thing about parental allowance. I've been standing here in the past, and I've asked for the support of an automatic validation of my parent's contribution. The YES movement rejected it at the time. I think it is very important to remember that these were the votes of the YES and the ČSSD movement that rejected it, and that today we are actually here with such a small improvement, which will be big for a lot of families, that is an increase in the monthly limit to CZK 13,000. But what awaits us is the implementation of the European work-life balance directive, the reconciliation of work and family life. That's what's left of the last government, that's the rest that's waiting for us very soon. This is an opportunity to think carefully about how to adjust our current parental contribution. I have never kept secrets from myself by thinking that it should not only be automatically validated, but also now increased. But at the same time, I find it very unfair - in a situation when you were a government party and you could automatically valorize to do that you didn't want it and rejected it - to point it out now. And the very last word. This law, which we will approve today, still contains a lot of simplifications, which are more interesting for social workers, about the local jurisdiction of labour offices, simplification as regards the so-called benefit of emergency immediate assistance. In fact, we're extending the definitions of legal situations that may give rise to entitlement to the benefit. It turns out that this is a dose very effective that can help very effectively. I, on all that is going on there, on those changes that, for a person who may not be so concerned with the area, may look like a small one, I want to show that this is actually a very crucial step back to a more functional social system, in order to better consider when it is fair and when, on the contrary, unacceptable -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u17	I'm sorry to interrupt, Madam Vice-President. I'm asking the left side of the hall to calm down. Thank you. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. - when it is fair and when it is unacceptable to judge certain incomes and the like. And in this area of system simplification, while also making the labour market accessible to people, we continue, for example, by introducing part-time jobs. Support for part-time work was on the agenda, which is an important promise that we made to voters, and our parties met very quickly given that only half a year of government is behind us. On that point, I want to show that we are taking steps as promised, but at the same time, we have to throw away a large pile of things that have been infuriatingly gathered here over the last few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too. And now, with priority right, Mrs Jana Pastuchová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I have to respond a little to Vice President Richterová. If I didn't know her from last term, maybe I'd believe her. But I think I'm gonna pull up the stew footage from a meeting where you guys were designing and saying how to help families. You were supposed to be the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, so you'd better clean up on the umpire, and it's easier there, and now you're training us here what the last government did and didn't do. You've been saying for many years that you've been correcting and that there's no communication. Communication hasn't been for three years with Minister Maláčová, who, I must tell you, has banned her officials from discussing with us. I agree with you on that. But if you say many and many years backwards, it's not just about our government. So you're making amends to the governments of the past who led the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. We've gotten used to the pirát rhetoric that it's all Babiš's fault, it's all because of another government. But I'm really curious today about how you're going to vote for the raise, whether it's the 65,000 or the 100,000. I mean, you guys used to push for it all the time. Specifically, you've had it in the media sometimes, that you're okay with it. Then show that you really mean well, and help those families. I'm really going to take your vote. Because in the past period, you were still behind those families. Like the pirát, like the KDU. And now here is the possibility, we are offering it to you, offering it to you by the amendment of our movement YES by 100,000, offering it to you by the amendment of the SPD by Lucie Šafránková by 65,000, if I am not mistaken. Then show me you mean it. When you said you wanted it, you yourself admitted that it was not enough and that you agreed to it, so I don't know why four MPs -- so you're here one yet -- you're not gonna pick up... Even one vote is a message for those families that the pirát want to support the families.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, and Mrs Válková will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Well, my dear colleagues, I'd say that now, as Patrik Nacher always says, and I don't want to take it away from him, I didn't expect to get off here. But I really had a lot of hope - and you know that I worked with the pirát, and quite successfully, on some of the proposals, and on the criticism of the YES movement, which eventually did not vote, it was the Istanbul Convention, it did not come at all, it was the children's ombudsman, where we were - I wonder how they would be The pirates have now voted - they have agreed to set up the institution and a comprehensive amendment has been prepared. And I remember very well all those suggestions, when I was very close to those approaches that the pirát - and I will now be optimistic - have been driving, and I hope that they are coming, that we will soon be convinced that - for me it was also very disappointing - that Mrs Olga Richterová did not accept the position of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I think that she would be a good minister and that she should not get scared, and I would certainly like to work with her as an opposition MP. But so be it. [[9.50 hours]] But now I would like to join the appeal that Mrs Pastuchová, a colleague of mine from the ANO movement, said here a moment ago, through you, Madam Vice-President, to show the will to actually raise the hand and fulfill those promises they said in the past. Then I will be glad to work closely with this party, and I will be happy to work with it, even if it is, if she is interested, even if she is now in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, too. And now, Mrs Lucie Šafránková, duly signed up for the debate, will speak. Mr. Igor Hendrych will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, our SPD MEP will support the simplification and reduction of the administrative burden when applying for a housing allowance for decent and working citizens, as well as other measures contained in the proposal. At the same time, however, I beg you to support our amendment, which we want to increase our parental contribution by CZK 60,000, i.e. roughly by the aggregate rate of inflation since its last increase in 2020. We consider this measure necessary and necessary in the context of support for our families with children, given the situation of rocket-growing inflation and the cost of basic living and needs. At the same time, we propose that the parental contribution should be increased on a regular basis in the future by a supervisory mechanism based directly on the law, depending on the growth of inflation for the previous calendar year, according to the official data of the Czech Statistical Office. Please support our families with the smallest children in the current difficult situation. It's clearly in our entire public interest. Let me also ask you to support the accompanying resolution on forms and applications for benefits of state social support and assistance in material distress in the sense that they are as simple and as understandable as possible for citizens. And this accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Asks the Government to impose on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic to revise all forms used in the context of requests for benefits of state social support and assistance in material distress from the point of view of (a) user friendliness, (b) needs and necessity of individual data, (c) duplication of individual data, (d) possibility of a comprehensive form to be used to re-document the supporting documents for individual benefits, and subsequently submitted the outcome of this revision to the Committee on Social Policy by 30 September 2022; II. asks the Government to impose on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic, by 31 October 2022, to submit a report to the Committee on Social Policy on the updating of the forms carried out on the basis of the measures resulting from the outcome of the revision on the basis of point This resolution and its implementation." Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Madame. Mr Igor Hendrych is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think I'll be brief today. Basically, a lot of what I wanted to say was said by my colleague from the club YES, Mrs Pastuchová, so maybe just a few things to add and then I will touch on a little bit of my favorite subject of one that is very relevant to today's discussion. First of all, perhaps the amendments that basically increase the parental contribution, ours by 400,000 and the one from the SPD by 360 000. I really think 300,000 last year is a completely different figure than 2022. And the young families, which I'm essentially calculating these days, whether they're starting a family or not, are very often hesitant about new studies and delaying their decisions. Which, by the way, is a specific sign or a clear sign that the average age of a primary mother now exceeds the 30th year of age. And it is very closely related to the extent to which these people are able to secure themselves economically at this difficult time. The current situation in the Czech population is that one woman accounts for approximately 1.7 to 1.8 children and the population in the Czech Republic is basically permanently supplemented by so-called naturalized foreigners, which is certainly not wrong, but I think we should also support the populative policy of basically our citizens who were born in the Czech Republic. Now, one more comment that hasn't been completely divorced here. Today we will approve the simplification of the administration of the housing allowance, it has been acknowledged here several times. I'll call it a day, too. Digitization is basically an irreversible process, evolutionary nowadays, which is intersected essentially by all the spheres of our lives. And it's a good thing we're doing that in this area, too. A short branch; Unlike yesterday's EET meeting, where we're going back to the 1990s, but in other cases, the evolution really continues, and it's good. However, I fear, and not in any way in a bad way, that it will still have a relatively small impact in the present or in the coming years. When I look at statistics on the drawing of the housing allowance for last year and this year, which I obtained from the Czech Statistical Office, I see that the figures are essentially no different. They're basically the same, somehow oscillating around some 150,000 plus minus in each month. And when I say a specific example that I think is very relevant, and that is May 2021 and May 2022, so even in May 2021, there were 17,000 more to those who received the contribution than last year - that is, last year was more than this year, so 18,000 2021 - there were 17,000 more than in 2022 in May, specifically. I was talking about this at a time when we were here debating whether or not this is an adequate tool to mitigate the effects of the energy crisis on the most needed citizens, which are mainly seniors, or families with young children. And I've been constantly calmed down, not just me, actually, our whole movement, that's right, this social policy tool is meant to be, and it's definitely gonna work. At that time I opposed the fact that unfortunately, unfortunately, it did not work and does not work and that there are many references to this in professional literature, which has been writing about this issue for many years. There is some widespread myth that there is some abuse in the Czech Republic, say, or excessive use of social benefits, but there is no longer talk about the fact that some social benefits are simply not being used, and they are not being used in the long term. And as I'm saying, it's written about the basic social policy textbooks. All you have to do is look at them. The statistics at the moment are basically about 25 percent (?) The population and it does not increase dramatically, although according to the PAQ Research analysis, it would, in fact, be entitled to up to 21 per cent after the extension of the range of beneficiaries today (?) population. And they're still only taking it 4 percent? population, which is approximately 20 per cent justified. Digitization could help. I'm not saying no. But it's gonna take a long time because I don't think if we can send a lot of things electronically all of a sudden, they'll somehow convince the current generation of seniors to do it this way. Maybe it's a long-distance run, and it's going to be about some next generation, let's say, in ten years. Although I would very much like it to work, I am skeptical in this regard, and I would ask you to continue to create a kind of campaign and try to promote this thing through all possible channels so that it can actually reach as many people as possible on this dose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Olga Richterová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u28	Thank you very much for the floor. At the same time, I also wanted to thank you for those - I must say in this House - unexpected words of support from my fellow Members. Appreciation is not common here, but I think what is important is to focus not on what was and what were the options, but on what will be, what we can do for our country, and also what are the measures that are being taken now and what will be later. And that's what today's debate is all about. I stand by everything I've ever said and voted for, and at the same time I know that everything is not possible right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. I'm asking the plaintiff's final words. He's interested. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u30	Thank you very much. I'll allow myself to react briefly. Of course, I see the situation here, the context of inflation, the impact on Czech households, on parents, on families, on singles, on seniors, we just have to be able to say that it is simply impossible and the possibilities of this state and the state budget to valorize all the support, all the benefits of full inflation. It's just that the budget isn't able to handle at this point. We need to prioritize these things, we need to target them to the specific most vulnerable groups. That is what we are trying to do, and at the same time we are taking the steps that I have mentioned here, which means, for example, increasing the life and existential minimum. Here, this adaptation of the housing allowance could target a larger circle of people more easily. There are pension valorisations going on, legal, and we are also planning to amend the amendment to Act 329 in order to adjust the aid for disabled people, increase the mobility allowance, increase the aid for individual aids. Support for people with disabilities employed by employers, and this is what we are planning to do now over the next few months. We've already started these legislative steps at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, so it's on. So we're doing the other things that are important, too. Even these groups of people with some type of disability also need this form of help to increase in order to increase these amounts. At the same time, the last thing I want to say - and I am now addressing Mr President again to Mr Okamura - when you say that I am not communicating with you here either, I just want to say that your colleague Mrs Šafránková was here to see me when we discussed this press last time, she came up with a motion for a resolution which I promised to give a positive opinion to him after a minor adjustment, I am prepared to support it, I think she is giving me a head and a heel, a logic. So it's like another legacy that you didn't tell the truth here. That if anyone comes to me, I communicate when it gives a ratio, we can make a deal, I'd be happy to support it, even if it's a proposal from the opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, fellow Members, I would like to sum up the whole process of submission -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u33	I'm so sorry to interrupt. I'd like you to calm down in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u34	I would therefore like to sum up the press' progress through the whole legislative process. The Government submitted a draft law to the House on 3 June this year, when the applicant's representative is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. On the same day, this bill was sent to Members as press 235. At the same time, the petitioner proposed to the House a hearing of the law so that the House could agree with it at first reading. The President of the House recommended and identified the rapporteur and proposed to order committee discussions, namely the Social Policy Committee. The first reading thus took place 15. 6. at the 26th meeting and the proposal was discussed in the general debate. However, the House did not agree to discuss it in such a way that it could agree with the bill at first reading. The bill was ordered by the Social Committee and the House's meeting was suspended and the committee's meeting period reduced to one hour, so that the committee could still meet on the same day, which it did. The guarantee committee therefore discussed the bill and issued 15 more. 6. Order delivered to Members as press 235/1. The second reading then took place both by a general and detailed debate at the 25th meeting of the following day, which is 16 June of this year. Amendments, which were processed as press 235/2, were loaded, and they were sent to you on the same day. The House has reduced the deadline for seven days, which is why we can discuss this law today. The Social Committee issued its resolution from the meeting on 22 June this year and was delivered to you as press 235/3. I would now like to introduce you briefly to the various proposals, to the various amendments, which we will then vote in the procedure. The first amendment was tabled and signed up for it at second reading by Mrs Lenka Dražilová. The amendment tightens the drawdown in such a way that the proposed advantage applies only to families in which at least one of the parents is employed or is a student. As a result of these changes, there will be a distinction between the possibility of choosing the maximum amount of monthly parental allowance depending on the productivity of the beneficiaries and their economic benefits, including potential for the whole company. In the case of students, the petitioners take into account their difficult life situation, which is mostly associated with the fact that they are preparing for their future careers and are often without any income of their own. The second amendment, to which Mr Aleš Juchelka applied, raises the parental contribution due to the care of the youngest child in the family for 2022 to 400,000 and, for two or more children born at the same time, to 1.5 times the amount of 400,000, that is to say, 600,000 crowns. The third amendment was tabled by my colleague Lucie Šafránková and it is a proposal to increase the parental contribution from 1 January 2023 by CZK 60,000, which corresponds to the rate of growth of aggregate inflation since the last increase in this contribution in 2020. Thus, it proposes to increase the amount of parental contribution from the current 300,000 to 360 000 crowns. At the same time, it also proposes to include a permanent valuation mechanism in the Act on State Social Support, which would guarantee a regular increase in parental contribution by the annual rate of inflation expressed as an increase in the consumer price index for the previous calendar year, according to data from the Czech Statistical Office. At the same time, Mrs Lucka Šafránková read the accompanying resolution, which she introduced you to in detail, so I will not read it again. That's all on my side at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Before we proceed to the vote on the amendments, I will read the apologies. Minister Kupka apologizes today from 9.50 to 12 o'clock for work reasons and Mrs Golasowská from 1.00 to the end of the day for work reasons. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments. [[A voice from the diaper]] Excuse me? Yes, of course. And I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to introduce us to the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u36	Resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 16th meeting of 22 June 2022 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, as amended, House print 235. The Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after discussing the draft law after second reading first recommends The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in the third reading on proposals submitted to the draft law pursuant to House press 235/2 in the following order: I can say at this point that a motion to reject the bill as such has not been put forward, so we would propose to vote first of all on the proposals for amendments under Section 95 (2) of the Act. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. These, however, have not been read and presented, which is why we will not vote on them. Secondly, the amendment under point A. This is the proposal by Mrs Dražilová. There would also be a vote on point B, which is Mr Juchelka's proposal. If this is adopted, there is an unvoting proposal under point C. If it is not adopted, we will vote on point C, which is Mrs Šafránková's proposals. Then we would vote on the bill as a whole and finally vote on the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I will now call my colleagues from the O.R. and vote on the draft procedure. In the meantime, I'll have you all checked out. I'd like you to sign up with your ID cards. We'll wait a while for the number of entries to settle. [[Initiating vote.]] I ask, who is in favour of the procedure proposal, as the rapporteur has put it? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 117 Members and Members of Parliament, for 117, against none. We've accepted the draft procedure. Now, rapporteur, I ask you to take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u38	We would now vote on point A, which is the amendment by Mrs Lenka Dražilová, who tightens the drawdown, so that the proposed advantage applies only to families that somehow contribute economically to society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u39	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Sorry. I'm sorry. Of course. Opinions. I declare this vote confusing. I forgot the Minister's position and I apologize to him. And, of course, the rapporteur should also give the opinion of the committee. So I'm asking for an opinion. First, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u40	The Committee does not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u41	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] We can therefore begin the vote now. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 117 Members and Members signed up, for 52, versus 61. The motion was not accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u42	We would now vote on the amendment under point B, which is the proposal of Aleš Juchelka, which increases the parental contribution to CZK 400,000, for two children and more to CZK 600,000. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u43	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 117 Members and Members signed up, for 52, versus 57. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u44	Since this amendment has been rejected, we can vote on the amendment under point C, which is the proposal by Lucie Šafránková, who presented here in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u45	Committee opinion? [[No opinion. The Committee has not delivered an opinion.]] For the plaintiff, Mr. Minister? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 117 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 51, against 20. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u46	We would now vote on the law as a whole. [[Voices from the diaper: Even the accompanying resolution.]] After last, after.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u47	Yes, the resolution will not be put to the vote until the law has been passed. Opinion? [[The Committee recommends.]] No need. Sorry. Neither does the Minister. Yes. We will therefore now vote on the bill as a whole. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[A commotion in the hall.]] I'm sorry. I forgot to read the motion for a resolution. So I would declare this vote confusing. And we still have Mrs. Maříková reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I voted in favour of voting number seven, and I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u49	Yes. I will just repeat that, given that I have forgotten to read the motion for a resolution, I declare the previous vote confusing. Sorry about that, of course. I will now make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support, as amended, and Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, according to the House's Press 235, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. We will vote on the law as a whole. I ask who's in favor, have him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 9, 117 Members and Members signed up, for 117, against none. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I also ask the rapporteur to present the motion for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u50	We will therefore now vote on the accompanying resolution. I don't think I have to read it here. In the course of the debate, my colleague has read it in detail. The Committee adopted the following opinion: it did not express itself, simply without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u51	No opinion. The plaintiff?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u52	I said that in the general debate. I support the motion for this accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u53	Yes. This means that you have received the motion for a resolution, it has been loaded here. And I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? In voting number 10, 116 Members and Members, for 114, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. And I'm done discussing this point. But with priority rights, Minister Jurečka wants to speak. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Colleagues, I'm begging you to wait. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u54	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I want to thank you and I want to thank everyone, including my colleagues here from the opposition, because we did not agree on this bill, although we did not agree on some amendments, but we have shown that we can agree very quickly and discuss this press in such a short time, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-24-ps2021-028-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, Minister. I therefore conclude once again on this point, and I say, Madam Members, that we have discussed the approved agenda of the 28th meeting, which I am ending with this, and I wish you a good weekend.
