ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u1	1. Opinion of the Chamber of Deputies on Russian aggression against Ukraine I will add to the apologies that have been brought together in the meantime, an apology from Mr Milan Feranc for the whole day because of illness, from Mrs Jana Krutáková without giving any reason, from Mr Lubomír Metnar on account of foreign travel, from Mr Vladimír Balaš for the whole day for family reasons and also from Mr Tomáš Kohoutek for health reasons. According to the agreement from the Gremium, for which I would still like to thank all those who participated in it, we agreed that at today's meeting for each club there would be a maximum of one Member or Member, with the club's position. At the same time, some ministers are also enrolled. From both the point of view and the agreement, I thank Mr Jan Jakob, for agreeing on the rapporteur, and would be him - and I beg that he take up his seat at the news table. I hereby initiate the general debate in which they are entered, in this order, Minister of Defence Jana Černochová, Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský, Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan, Minister and Vice Prime Minister - I am not telling everyone here, so I apologize - Minister Jurečka. In addition, President Babiš, Vice-President Skopeček, Mr Bašta, with the club's position, and as the last myself, in particular, are enrolled. Please, Madam Secretary of Defense. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the government, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Ambassador, just before the House's meeting, we had bilateral negotiations. The world has changed tonight. Although the world security situation was not ideal and was getting worse, it is still as if we were all hoping that an open war conflict - an armed attack on a sovereign state - is something that does not belong to Europe of the 21st century. Unfortunately, reality is different. Although the Alliance and all the countries of the democratic community have done everything possible to resolve the situation between Ukraine and Russia by diplomatic means, the opposite has happened tonight. The worst-case scenario ever came true. There has been an attack on a sovereign and free country, an attack that cannot be called anything other than a heinous crime. As has been confirmed many times in history, an aggressor cannot be dealt with, and if he wants a war, he will achieve it. It is always only a matter of time before and with what pretext or justification it will be. Together with allies in NATO, the European Union and other partners, the Czech Republic stands at this difficult moment in Ukraine. Ukraine is a country that is not only civilised and ethnically close to us, but it also connects us with the fact that it faces a situation that we have faced ourselves twice in the last century - in 1938 and 1968. It is therefore our moral duty to appeal against territorial integrity disruption and unprecedented attack. We clearly condemn this attack by Russia and the Western response must be as hard as possible. The Russian regime must clearly feel the impact of severe sanctions and the strength and unity of Western allies. We must all speak with one voice as an Alliance, but also as the Czech Republic. Therefore, I very much welcome and I, too, thank the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for his judgmental words to President Putin. Mr. President Zeman, thank you. [[A round of applause for the majority of Members in the Chamber.]] We must also not allow Russian propaganda and the interpretation of developments in Ukraine to dominate the public space and overlap the real essence, namely that Russia has taken a step that is not justified by any argument. Things need to be called real names - invasion is always an invasion, violence, murder by murder. Let us not allow this to be diluted in any way by lying spoils about how Russia was provoked to be cornered, frustrated. None of this is true. Russia is not and has not been in any danger. This morning, I called a DOD crisis crew where we received information from our military command. There was a meeting at the Security Council of the State. There was an alliance council meeting. I'll meet my colleagues at the Ministry of Defense's next crisis staff again tonight. As regards reactions and other actions, colleagues and colleagues, the Czech Republic is intensively discussing joint action in the framework of the North Atlantic Alliance at many levels. As I was saying, the North Atlantic Council was meeting today, an extraordinary summit will take place tomorrow. The Alliance activates extraordinary defence plans allowing the deployment of forces of a very rapid response to the defence of the Member States. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4a of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 4 North Atlantic treaties guaranteeing a common procedure to prevent the integrity of the Member States on the east wing. If necessary, we are ready to send soldiers a very rapid response and act according to the situation on further demands. At the moment it would be 400 soldiers from the rapid deployment brigade and 180 soldiers from the chemical protection. In view of the seriousness of the events, NATO has declared emergency measures for Member States precisely in these cases. According to the situation, the government will be ready to implement them immediately. We have a government meeting tomorrow. I'm ready to submit this material tomorrow. But we will follow the legal procedure, the alliance rules and international law, because we are not Putin. For us, justice is sacred. [[A round of applause for the majority of Members in the Chamber.]] We are ready to help Ukraine to the maximum. We already support it materially, whether it's the gift of artillery ammunition or humanitarian aid. Similarly, we must not forget the health care contract for wounded members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces at the Ministry of Defence's facilities, which we signed a few weeks ago and which is taking on more up-to-date than we thought a few weeks ago. Our goal is not to escalate the situation, but to show strength. Putinův's regime must be held accountable for its aggressive policies and the murder of innocent civilians. If we don't stop him today, we'll face an even greater threat tomorrow, for example, ourselves. Putin wants to rebuild the Soviet Union at the expense of free sovereign countries that do not want Russian domination - they have experienced it. This also applies to the Czech Republic. He doesn't have to stop in Ukraine. All the capable bandit Putin will lose in the end, but it will cost lives, health and great damage to the property of innocent people. He risks the lives of not only Ukrajinec, but above all his soldiers and residents, who he takes hostages to implement his crazy plan. We like the West are not weak. We just have to make it very clear. [[16.40 hours]] In conclusion, I would like to make a small remark: The current situation clearly shows us, dear colleagues, how important the defence of the country is and how we must not underestimate it. Unfortunately, war threats are not the past or things of other continents. It clearly shows that we must not underestimate our defence and we must invest in it. And it's a big one. Others, you and me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u3	I will now ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jan Lipavský. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madame Ambassador, in recent months, we have tried diplomatically to avert the conflict in Ukraine, but Russia has chosen the way of war. Today we are witnessing an absolutely indefensible and unprovoked act of aggression by Russia against Ukraine. Russia tramples on the most fundamental principles of European security architecture, international law and peaceful coexistence. After years of laborious stability in Europe, Russia is bringing war, chaos and suffering to Europe - and suffering not only to countless innocent Ukrajinec, but also to its citizens and other Evropan. We are experiencing live manipulation of information, misinformation and artificial grounds of aggression created by the Russian security apparatus to justify its actions in Ukraine. Such false reasons cannot in any way justify Russia's invasion. Yesterday, the Russian Ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, my deputy, claimed that reports about the presence of Russian military troops in Donbas were merely misinformation from the Western media. It is therefore quite obvious that the lie has become an entirely common instrument of Russian state power, including diplomacy. Therefore, the Czech diplomacy has also clearly condemned and described the unacceptable behaviour of the Russian Federation, and accordingly follow the steps that the Czech government is taking in the international field in relation to Russia and Ukraine. In the international field, particularly in the European Union, we are taking a clear and strong position on sanctions. Tonight will be an extraordinary meeting of the Council of the European Union, where Prime Minister Fiala is taking part. There's a meeting of foreign ministers tomorrow, which I'm taking part in. We assume that sanctions will be adopted in these two negotiations. As far as the relationship with the Russian Federation is concerned, we have launched a number of steps to reduce the influence of Russian security forces on the territory of the Czech Republic. Some of them have already been announced today, others we are actively working on. To Ukraine we are looking for the maximum possible level of support not only by expressing solidarity, but also through concrete steps, whether humanitarian or other. Of course, we also take care of our citizens in the territory of the Ukrainian Republic, actively addressing the situation of our employees at the representative office, observers in the OSCE mission and so on. I think the state administration is doing absolutely maximum performance today, they're all going 100%. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing unprecedented events, we are experiencing a barbaric act from Russia towards Ukraine and what is happening today, and the importance of this is that we are fighting as a whole of the Western international community to respect the most fundamental rights and principles that we have formed here after World War II, namely that the territorial integrity of the state, territorial integrity and its sovereignty do not change by force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, too. Minister Rakušan is now registered. I am merely announcing the withdrawal of Mr Balaš's note. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. Madam President, Mr Ambassador, Prime Minister, Members, Members of the Government, honourable colleagues. This morning, when our phones were flooded with dozens of messages and information, we witnessed something unprecedented, something in which we all hoped we would not live in our lives. In the morning, when we woke up, we became victims of our children's questions if there was a war. And that's the thing that we haven't experienced in our private lives in our geographic widths either. We here in the Czech Republic can calm our children down, we can tell them, "No, no, there won't be a war, we won't let that happen, it won't happen." But those who woke up in the morning in Ukraine and their children, and I don't know how it's done, had to explain that war is and that they're in danger of their family, their safety, their bare life, their property, that it might be necessary to get up and go somewhere, somewhere where those children have never been. The situation is unimaginable for our generation, but for the generation of my grandparents, it was a reality. They knew the war. And we should be thinking about the historical experience of the Czech Republic at this time. We should be thinking that we are a country that met two bloody totalitarians in the last century, a country that, of course, was part of two bloody world wars. That the war was going through our territory, that it had its victims material, but above all the victims in life, in human health. And it is the country that has such an immediate historical experience and, after all, not so long ago, from 1968, when tanks that have temporarily remained here for more than 20 years, and we should be the first to offer help. We should be the first to understand the terrible reality that the Ukrainian nation has awakened to today. At the same time, we need to say that at this point, we're actually at the war, too. As the Ambassador has already spoken, it is an attack on the historic structure of Europe after the war, it is a trample on all international agreements, it is a trample on the architecture of Europe that we were hoping will not be trampled on, and we were part of it. But we're also in a different kind of war, we're in a kind of war with misinformation, with the fact that in this weird time, we're afraid to mark things with real names. Don't worry! Today we have to do it, and here we have to hear it: Russia is an aggressor, and Ukraine is a victim! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] That's just a fact that we all have to say very loudly, not just in the first wave of solidarity, because the conflict can be long. The first wave of solidarity in every crisis is strong, but we must endure. We Ukraine must show that we will still be those partners after weeks and months, and we still need to speak the same voice and the same language. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to thank the citizens of the Czech Republic for a huge wave of solidarity. I would like to thank the opposition, I would like to thank Mr President, colleagues and colleagues in the government, because we are really all doing our best right now, and we have forgotten what divides us. For the Home Office, I say we're ready. It's a type plan for a migration wave of various intensity. Today the government of the Czech Republic has activated the so-called green stage, a stage which requires no extraordinary legislative measures and in which we are basically preparing and putting all institutions that have to do with migration on alert. Tomorrow I will be the government of the Czech Republic, stressing preventively, asking for the activation of the orange level, which counts on the migration wave at its maximum, with the number of refugees arriving around five thousand. At this point, it also does not require any amended legislative framework, we are moving in a standard legislative environment. However, this type allows, of course, many simpler procedures for Ukrajinec in our territory, and that is how we begin. We have 200,000 Ukrajinec for a long stay, 60,000 for short stays. I would like to assure our Ukrainian friends: we have stopped any expulsion processes of Ukrajinec from the Czech Republic back to Ukraine. I want to make sure they don't have to worry if their residence permit expires in the Czech Republic in these exposed days. Of course, they will be able to stay here, and the police will certainly be benevolent, and above all we come up with a new type of visa, which will be very easy to fill. The request will be as simple as it can be, and all information in Ukrainian will be provided on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. We have introduced a special telephone line for Ukrainians, it is already in operation, its number is also on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. We have introduced two e-mail addresses: one where Ukrajinec can ask directly how to proceed, if they want to get one of their family members to the Czech Republic or solve some current problem on our territory, the other line is for Czech citizens and citizens and there you can offer any assistance but especially accommodation. Since yesterday, since yesterday afternoon 104 citizens of the Czech Republic have offered accommodation capacities in hundreds. This solidarity is enormous, and I'm sure it will continue. At the same time, I would like to say that the contact point is also ready. His address will be published tomorrow following the approval of the orange stage, where basic needs such as accommodation, food or medical assistance will be provided for possible arrivals from Ukraine. None of the Ukrajinec will be left without help. Wives, children, older family members can come to the Czech Republic at this time without any visa application for a normal passport and we will then issue with priority all residence permits for them to stay here longer. The police of the Czech Republic are monitoring the security situation very closely with us, but I would like to assure our citizens that the security situation in the Czech Republic is not affected in any way at present. Everything is monitored and the police and other institutions would certainly respond to this in a very timely and prompt manner. At the same time, the Ministry of the Interior identifies additional accommodation capacities in state property. This is also prepared within the departmental and non-reortal capacities. And I can say that the Czech Republic is now ready to help Ukrajinec in their problems. It's not a question of whether or not we want to, we have to. We have a historical duty because in our difficult times of national history, we have always and effectively been helped, and we must act the same way now. Let us do it with determination, do it with endurance, and do it with the fact that those who come here are in real trouble and are in danger of their lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u7	The Minister Jurečka will now appear and the President Babiš will follow. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u8	Thank you. Madam President, Mr Ambassador, fellow Members, I also express my great belongings, solidarity and support to Ukrainian people, who are experiencing very difficult moments, one of the most difficult times in modern history. We are with you, we are with your soldiers, all those who today in these hours, but also in future days and hours fight for your freedom, independence, sovereignty. Our two countries divide and combine many common moments, especially the history of the 20th century. We have experienced a period of testing, what it means when it comes to Nazi totalitarianism, when we lose our sovereignty, lose our own borders, and foreign troops enter our territory. We also experienced a period of influence of the sphere of Moscow. We experienced this when our affairs could not be decided in our territories, and you may have experienced specific moments such as the Chernobyl accident, its easing, ignoring and demonstrating how misinformation works in the 20th century. And all of this, we thought we were done. We thought in the 21st century none of this could happen again. We managed to join NATO and the European Union and we believed that in the 21st century there was room for peace building around the world, cooperation between states, and searching for what could link us, not what could divide us. You had at least a certain guarantee in the form of the 1994 Budapest Memorandum, which was also a link to Ukraine's surrender to the nuclear arsenal, which was to guarantee your sovereignty, your national borders, your right to self-determination, the democratic development of your country in connection with other international agreements. Unfortunately, none of this is valid at this point, because Putin and his administration are here, disrespecting everything I was talking about a while ago. And I can say as my colleagues from the government also said from their respective departments, concrete forms of help, that we are ready to help all the families that are here in the Czech Republic and from whom their husbands or partners in the framework of the conscription will have to leave the territory of Ukraine, and all those who remain here will have to help. And also help those who come, who will complement their families from those parts of Ukraine where they will not be able to live safely, move and function. For all these forms of assistance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is either prepared or we are taking some steps to be prepared. We have to help, we have to help and we will help. We must define the boundaries of the negotiations, the limits of the real, the borders that must not be crossed. Let me conclude by saying a text that I think symbolically describes a lot: " Ukraine has not yet died, neither glory nor freedom. Still, the Ukrajinec brothers, fate will smile at us. Our enemies will perish like dew in the sun. We will finally begin to rule in our country." The lyrics of the Ukrainian anthem, from which they not only freeze these days, but in which there is a certain hope, and I believe that hope will come true. Many forces, we're with you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u9	And now, President Babiš will speak with the ANO club's opinion, followed by the speech of Vice-President Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Government, I have long avoided the word war in discussions on the Ukrainian-Russian conflict, probably because, for my generation, who grew up knowing the horrors of World War II, knowing the horrors of the bipolar world, in the atmosphere of the Cold War and in events such as the Cuban crisis, the term war is too strong. At present, as well as with regard to the information that comes from Ukraine, I must use that word already. On the part of Russia, this is an act that clearly provokes war. I refuse to use the word invasion that was first used by Vladimir Putin after the invasion of Ukraine. It is not an invasion, but a regular start of war, and such a step must not only be harshly condemned, but, above all, also clearly confront it. We must clearly support Ukrajina and all Ukrajinec in their fight for peace and for the preservation of freedom - firstly, because evil cannot be retreated, secondly, we have a duty to do so because Ukrajinec are the largest minority in the Czech Republic. We know them as decent and hardworking people, they're our friends and we have to help our friends. They call me from various Czech companies that they are worried about their colleagues and ask what will happen. And I understand them, many of them are now experiencing or soon experiencing unpleasant moments of surprise that their friends, colleagues, neighbors and friends will be saying goodbye to them because they will receive a summoning order to the Ukrainian army. I would like to ask all of you to be with them in spirit, to help all those whose husbands and fathers are leaving for war. I have to say, it's something terrible that I thought I'd never experience. I admit that I am very disappointed that diplomatic negotiations have gone nowhere, and the Prime Minister should ask French President Emmanuel Macron tonight why the negotiations with Putin failed. However, this does not mean that we are to resign from a peaceful solution. On the contrary, now more than ever, we should be united and act together within the European Union and NATO. The situation is serious, and therefore we will not be opposed to the government on this matter. I would like to make this clear that the ANO movement supports Prime Minister Petr Fiala and his government in action against Russian aggression in Ukraine. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] We've had the Vrbětice case, so we know who we're dealing with. We dealt with this actively and expelled Russian agents and diplomats and employees of the Russian embassy from the Czech Republic. For the first time it was 3 diplomats in 2018 and last year we expelled 63 other people from the Russian Embassy. And I am glad that President Miloš Zeman has spoken today, gave a clear opinion on this event, and it is a good thing that he will act in harmony and coordination with the government. At present, we must do our utmost to make life easier for the Ukrajinec who live here. It is good that the Ministry of the Interior announced today that even those who end their residence permit can stay here. But it is necessary to actively help those who will have to leave their homes and seek security in our country. No one wants to leave their home voluntarily, which is why I would like us to prepare the best possible welcome and help for these people. At the same time, however, we are also obliged to start actively organising humanitarian aid. I know what I'm about to say may turn against me, but I would like to ask all our citizens for restraint towards the Rus in the Czech Republic. By far, not all Rus agree with Vladimir Putin's actions, and I dare say that many of them fled to us just before his policy. However, this does not mean that we could not be active in sanctions against those Russian entrepreneurs who support Putinův's regime from the Czech Republic. Our security situation is changing fundamentally at the moment. Investment in defense must be a priority. We must mobilize our military industry and resources, better equip our army and continue investing in cyber security. Our army should speed up the increase in the number of professional soldiers and speed up recruitment. On defence and national security issues, our policy must be united and I would like to remind you that, while the YES movement has been in the government, from 2014 to 2021, we have increased the army's budget by more than 100 percent. I would like to thank the government for releasing humanitarian aid money today. It must be acknowledged that the current situation in Ukraine will affect our standard of living, our people and our economy. Our economy and public finances are in good shape, but we are in post-covid time. There has been a break in supply chains, we have inflation, energy prices are rising, and it might be good for the European Union, the European Commission, to think again about perhaps overly ambitious green plans, Green Deal. And perhaps it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to try to reopen the review and the MiFID Directive on emission allowances, which has an impact on electricity prices, and of course it is a question of gas. The more we press Green Deal, the more pressure is on energy prices, and the more we have a problem that our heating industry is supposed to replace coal with gas, the very Russian gas we depend on. And we should also think about these things at European level, and maybe finally change the strategy, the strategy that we call for to be reasonable. So I thank the government for the procedure, for the approach, and we, as opposition, of course, repeat, we support the government in these steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u11	Vice-President Skopeček will now appear and followed by Mr Bašta. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, thank you, firstly, for the previous speeches, and I very much appreciate the words of the opposition, and allow me, for the whole Civic Democrat MEP's club, to strongly condemn the act of the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine. The enemy actions of the Russian Federation towards Ukraine, which culminated in unprecedented violations of Ukraine's sovereignty this morning, do not and cannot have any justification. They are in grave conflict not only with international law, the law of each country on sovereignty, but they are contrary to an international system based on peaceful coexistence and cooperation between sovereign states. The international system of sovereign states that cooperate and seek their development in cooperation with foreign partners is a system whose benefits are obvious. It is a system that suits the interests of the Czech Republic, and I hope also most of the civilized world. On the contrary, the Russian Federation has chosen the path of force, aggression and attack against a sovereign state. The decision of the Russian leadership will cause significant, irreparable damage to Ukraine, increase security risks throughout our region, and I believe that it will ultimately harm the aggressor himself, Russia and its people. So if Russia is still listening to and hearing anyone, we call on them to drop the current aggression as quickly as possible in their own interest. [[17.10 hours]] All of Europe and Russia, in particular from history, know very well what war is and what horrors, material damage, but, above all, human suffering brings. It is clear that even with our own escape through the historical experience of the 20th century, we cannot remain silent in these days and hours. We must not stand idly by today's development. We must use all the effective means to help Ukraine to the maximum, and that the Russian Federation bears the appropriate consequences for its aggression. War always hits innocent ordinary people the most. Human suffering and loss are already reported. Let's wish I was as few as possible in the next few days. Of course, the Civic Democrat Embassy Club will support the resolution that will be read here. Thank you for your attention and I express my utmost belonging to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u13	I would like to record the apology that came to me from Mrs. Krkvenjaš, Mrs. Crkvenjaš, who apologizes for work reasons. And now I will ask the Member with the opinion of the SPD, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, Mr Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, today I am speaking for the SPD to express our position on this situation. The SPD movement in this case is absolutely solidarity with the interests of the Czech Republic, it throws away any party shirt and will continue to act only in the Czech Republic's jersey in this crisis. That's for the introduction. [[A round of applause for the members of the SPD, but also for some others.]] Otherwise, allow me my personal opinion on this. First of all, when I heard the news this morning about the start of the war, I remembered 1968, when we also made sure for a long time that they couldn't do it - and they did. It was very similar today. And since 2014, when I see footage from eastern Ukraine, I just remember knowing all the people who live there, who work there, or work there, because it was an area with which the Czech Republic probably had the biggest business and other connections. It was the most industrialized region of Ukraine all those years ago, and my heart was always bleeding looking at it. But because the sanctions we are talking about here are necessary, but I always remember the more than 1,500-year-old statement by svatý Augustin, who, when he spoke of war and peace, said one profound truth: The purpose of war is not victory, the purpose of war is just peace. I don't expect that from President Putin, but we should keep this in mind all the time. And since our movement is basically, as has been shown several times, a proponent of a peace settlement, it cannot come to a resolution, but I think it should be heard. Today, Ukraine has loosened diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation. Someone here in the Russian Federation, her interests, will still have to stand up for Ukraine. Mr Lukašenko, for example. I think that, in this case, given that we are in second place in the order of non-friendship in relation to the Russian Federation, it would be very good if we took this role and could continue to influence not only diplomatic negotiations but also negotiations on a peaceful settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and President Markéta Pekarová Adamová will now perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u16	Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Mr Ambassador, honourable Members, the attack on Ukraine, which, last night insidiously and for no reason, has unleashed the Russian Federation, has been the greatest military aggression against the European State since World War II. But it is also an attack against the fundamental values upon which coexistence between civilized nations rests. It also affects the security and life interests of the Czech Republic. In view of these serious circumstances, it is very important that the Chamber of Deputies at this extraordinary meeting address the situation in Ukraine and support the government in its next steps. I am very pleased to say that, in agreement with all the clubs in the Chamber of Deputies, I will present the following motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies: I. categorically condemns Russia's barbaric, inexcusable and unprovoked aggression against Ukraine, which is contrary to the fundamental standards of international law and the principles of relations between civilised nations and which threatens both the lives of innocent people and the very foundations of security architecture in Europe; II. Expresses its clear opposition to the lying and aggressive rhetoric of the political leadership of the Russian Federation, in particular its President Vladimir Vladimirovič Putin, who is to justify the military attack against Ukraine and which aims to call into question its state independence and the right to its very existence; III. Responsible for the separatist activities of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government of the so-called "government' of the so-called "government' of the so-called "Lugansk People's Republic'. IV. Expresses clear support for Ukraine at this difficult time, supports its territorial integrity and sovereignty at internationally recognised borders and stresses that Ukraine has full rights to defend its territory, as well as the right to choose its internal constitutional, social and political arrangements and its foreign policy direction; V. appreciates that the Government of the Czech Republic has strongly and promptly condemned the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine; VI. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to consistently promote the immediate adoption of effective sanctions against the Russian Federation and natural and legal persons and, where appropriate, other countries involved in aggression against Ukraine in relevant international fora, including the institutions of the European Union; VII. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to continue its efforts to support Ukraine, both bilaterally and within the European Union, NATO and other international organisations, and to provide Ukraine with all necessary assistance; VIII. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to contribute rapidly and substantially to strengthening the defence of the Allied countries of the Eastern Wing of NATO and finally IX. Calls on the Russian Federation to immediately stop military aggression against Ukraine and withdraw its troops from its territory at internationally recognised borders." Thank you for your attention and for your support for this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Madam President, this concludes the general debate and we will proceed to the debate in detail, to which President Markéta Pekarová Adamová has signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u18	In a detailed debate, I will just refer to the resolution already tabled and ask the Chamber of Deputies to vote on the resolution as a whole, not on a single basis, unless there are objections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too, and I am now ending the detailed debate. We will proceed to the final vote and we will vote on the motion for a resolution, as has been said in the detailed debate. I will zagongovat and summon Members and Members to the Chamber. And now we will vote on the motion for a resolution, as presented by President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. I'll check you all out, and I'll ask you to sign up with your cards, and we'll wait for our numbers to settle. And now we will proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? I am of the opinion that 166 Members and Members have been registered in vote number 4, for 165, against no one. I can also say that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. I'm sorry, we still have a request for a vote check. [[The vote is being briefly reviewed.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm on drugs, and I've been delayed, and I voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-24-ps2021-013-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. I can therefore say that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. Thank you all for coming. [[Members have risen, applause sounds throughout the hall.]] We also thank the ambassador and we are with the Ukrainian people. I am ending this 13th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
