ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 276/2003 Coll., on Antarctica and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 67/ - Second reading Anna Hubáčková, Minister of the Environment, shall state the application submitted for the applicant. Madam Secretary, please take the floor again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is presenting to Parliament of the Czech Republic a draft law on Antarctica at second reading, so we have already discussed it. The main objective of the proposed legislation is to bring national legislation into line with the amendment of Annexes II and VI to the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, which is also known as the Madrid Protocol. Following the 15-year application practice of the Antarctic Act, another objective is to adjust the authorisation system, processes and conditions for entry and activities carried out in Antarctica. In 2005, Annex VI to the Protocol, which regulates the responsibility for environmental accidents arising from scientific research programmes on tourism and all other government and non-governmental activities in the Antarctic Treaty area, was adopted. What, then, will be implemented into our amendment in this context? The operator's obligation to take corrective action in an environmental accident. The operator shall be a natural or legal person who organises activities to be carried out in accordance with the Antarctic Treaty. In the event that an operator does not take immediate and effective corrective action, Annex VI calls on the Contracting Party of the operator and the other Contracting Parties to take that step for it. A Contracting Party which takes such corrective action as an operator shall have the right to recover the costs associated with the originator and may bring an action against that operator. To cover liability, operators are required to maintain adequate insurance or financial collateral. At present, there is a double regime in the law for the entry of all governmental and non-governmental organisations, scientific organisations and so on, it is the notification and authorisation regime. The proposed adjustment will unify, as is the case in other countries, the authorisation regime will be simplified by only one document, namely authorisation. This permit will always be discussed by the Ministry of Environment with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Czech Republic is one of the countries conducting significant scientific research in Antarctica. He has his scientific station Johann Gregor Mendel there thanks to Masaryk University in Brno, and it is therefore our interest to proceed to the amendment and approve the amendment of this law, which I am asking you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The resolution of the committees has been delivered as House Press 67/1 and 2, and I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, who is Mr Ondřej Babka, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I, as rapporteur, will only read the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, namely the 51st resolution of the Committee on the Environment from the 10th meeting of 23 June 2022 to the Government Bill amending Act No. 276/2003 Coll., on Antarctica and amending certain laws, as amended, House print 67: "After the opening words of Deputy Minister of the Environment Mgr Eva Volfová and the report by Mr Ondřej Babka and after the debate by the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the proposal in the proposed text; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations; IV. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." And since we have not adopted an amendment in committee, so we have neither discussed nor discussed, that is the end of my intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u5	Thank you very much for the next news report and I am opening up a general debate. Mr Babka rejoins the general debate, so please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u6	I, Mr Vice-President, am only reporting to this debate to point out - as the Minister has already said - that this law, which concerns mainly three areas, the responsibility for environmental accidents, the protection of fauna and flora of Antarctica and, at the same time, the regulation of tourism - that it has been absolutely trouble-free both here at first reading and at the Committee on the Environment, and I therefore note that when you conclude the general debate, I will propose a detailed debate in accordance with Section 94 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, so that we no longer have to deal with this proposal in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u7	I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after the general debate? I don't think so. I am therefore initiating a detailed debate and reporting to the debate in detail in the third time of all good Mr Babka. [[Thank you for the floor.]] I will interrupt you and remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. That is only to make sure that we are in agreement with the Rules of Procedure. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u8	I thank you for the third time and, at the same time, because I see that none of my colleagues are interested in reading the second reading of the House Press 67 of the amendment to the Antarctic Act to read any amendment, and I think that here and the Minister, as well as my colleagues from all the clubs, there is agreement that we have discussed this press properly and consistently enough on the Committee on the Environment at first and second reading. [[12.30 hours]] So I will now take the liberty of proposing that the guarantee committee no longer pursues the proposal. The reasoning is simple, so that there were no amendments tabled and the debate in committee between the first and second readings was smooth. Therefore, I refer to § 94A para. 4 when this proposal may be tabled in a detailed debate so that the guarantee committee no longer deals with the draft law. I'll ask you to let me vote on this if no one objects to this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-08-ps2021-035-03-010-002.u9	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone. I am therefore ending the debate in detail. I want to ask you the final words, if there's any interest? It is neither on the part of the appellant nor on the part of the rapporteur. The only proposal that should be addressed was that the guarantee committee should no longer deal with the draft law, according to § 94 para. 4. Since there have been no vetoes from two or 20 members of parliament, I will vote on this proposal. In the meantime, I have called in colleagues from the foyer to engage, but I do not see that there is an enormous interest in taking part in this vote. Yes, at the request of Mr Juchelka, I will sign you all out and ask you to re-enlist with your identification cards. In the meantime, I'm gonna load up an apology. Mr Šimek apologizes from 16 o'clock for work reasons. I think that the number of Members has settled. I merely remind you that we will be voting on the proposal made by the rapporteur, namely that the guarantee committee should no longer deal with the draft law that we are discussing. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 111 Members voted in favour of 110, no one was opposed. The motion for a resolution has been adopted, and the guarantee committee will therefore no longer deal with the bill. I mean, the rapporteur, we have dealt with all the matters in the second reading. I therefore conclude the second reading of this proposal. Let's continue with point number
