ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 121/2000 Coll., on Copyright Law, on Rights Related to Copyright and Amendment of Certain Laws (the Copyright Act), as amended, and other related Laws /Departmental Printing 31/ - Second Reading Under the authority of the Government, Martin Baxa, the Minister of Culture, will state the bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to give the introductory word on the second reading of the draft law on copyright and amending certain laws, which is therefore primarily the implementation of European law. This is specifically the transposition of two directives of the European Parliament and of the Council which form part of the modernisation of Union copyright. I, colleagues, actually commented on the content at first reading. I think that what this law is about, I suppose it is familiar somehow, but I would take this opportunity to comment in more detail on some of the amendments that have been tabled. I do so because, in an area governed by the copyright law, it is clear that any change can cause quite a great deal of tension in a rather fragile system, and therefore I think that it is necessary not only to comment on the amendments, but also to state the position of the Ministry - not in terms of what we think is, or is not, discussed at third reading, but to comment on the things that we think are important and that they have their weight. The draft law, including several parliamentary proposals, was repeatedly discussed at meetings of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as well as in the subcommittee on Culture. The Guarantee Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies must approve press 31 as amended by several amendments, namely three amendments by Mrs Kocmanová and one amendment by Mr Michálek. And I will allow these amendments, as they have been tabled, to comment, to point out, from the point of view of my ministry. I assume that Mrs Kocmanová is planning to do this, too, if necessary, but I think it is important for this cause, because these proposals have already been supported by the committee. Madam Kocmanová's amendment number V 1133 (?) deletes from the government, that is, our proposal, an amendment point on the basis of which it would be possible to grant permission to exercise the so-called extended collective management for the publishers of periodicals. If this amendment point is deleted, it may continue to be authorised to exercise collective management, but the collective administrator will represent only those publishers who explicitly express themselves, not all publishers by law except those who exclude it. [[interest]] It's a change that seems technical, but it's very important. I will just add that the implemented directive does not regulate the specific form of exercise of the right of publishers, and my ministry's position on this amendment is in agreement. Second amendment by Mrs Kocmanová V 1134 (?) complements the next paragraph to the newly proposed Section 47 of the Copyright Act concerning the obligations of storage sites and specifies the procedure for the so-called automatic blocking of content. Mrs Kocmanová's amendment should be clarified that automatic blocking, now as a concept, will concern only such content, which is identical or equivalent to the content reported by the right-holder, and the definition of identical content and equivalent content is added. This amendment is based on the European Commission's Guidelines for the Application of Art. 17 of the Directive and several other legislation of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the action of the Republic of Poland. The Ministry of Culture is aware of the concerns of representatives of certain concerned entities, in particular rights holders, regarding provisions on automatic content blocking. Specifically, it concerns the fact that the amendment will narrow down the interpretation of the obligation to remove or block illegally recorded content and that the content, which should be blocked in the opinion of the right-holders, will continue to appear on the storage sites. However, the amendment concerns only those situations where so-called automatic filters will be used. Nothing changes that the obligation to block or remove content will apply to specific parts, on the basis of information provided to the rightholder. Furthermore, this amendment proposes supplementing § 51 para. 1 on the rule that the complaint procedure introduced in cases where users do not agree with blocking or removing the content uploaded to the repository by them should be free of charge for the user. The directive does not modify the issue of charging the complaint procedure in any way, so our position is agreed. Paragraph 3 of this amendment by Mrs Kocmanová adds a new Section 51a to the Government's proposal. This provides for the possibility of a legal person defending the interests of users to bring a collective action against the repository, which repeatedly illegally blocks the content. According to some representatives of the bodies concerned, such an adjustment is neither necessary nor appropriate, but the directive implemented here does not restrict the Member States in any way. I would just like to point out that I have been opposed to the amendment that I have just quoted on this issue. But we believe that this is not contrary to what the original European legislation wants, so our position is also in agreement. Now Mrs Kocmanová's third amendment V 1135 (?) inserts another new paragraph in Section 47 of our government proposal, which explicitly states that the repository does not have a general obligation to supervise the content of stored users. Such explicit addition of the generally applicable rule is not necessary from a conceptual point of view. It is and will probably be contained in the generally applicable regulation in the e-commerce directive and will therefore be the Digital Services Act Digital Services Regulation, but there will be no conflict with the implemented directive by supplementing it. Establishment of § 47 para. 4 only providers of online content sharing services, as defined in Section 46, will be covered. This is when the repository will be used to share copyrighted content. At the same time, it is necessary to state precisely in the context of the reservations that I have mentioned here and the concerns of some representatives of the entities concerned that neither the directive nor the amendment prohibit providers of content sharing services, content online, from exercising general supervision voluntarily. The amendment merely states that it is not and cannot be imposed on him. The Ministry of Culture agrees with this proposal. [[16.10 hours]] And now the last amendment, which has been supported by the committee, and will therefore - as I expect the rapporteur to propose - be voted in bulk at the third reading, is Mr Michálek's amendment number V 1139 b2 (?). This amendment complements the provisions relating to reporting live music production to the collective administrator of the OSA. According to the proposal, there will be no obligation to report two more types of live music productions to the collective administrator of the OSA. In addition to already excluded folklore productions, it will also be first of all musical productions, where bands play their own compositions and authors are not represented by OSA for live operation, and also musical productions, when only free works will be played, i.e. works that have already passed the duration of copyright. On this amendment - and this is correct, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out - that it can in practice lead to an increased number of checks on live production by the OSA, the Protective Union of Authors, as its duty to authors, including foreign authors, is to verify whether only works of non-represented authors are really being played. We have also given a favourable opinion on this amendment by Mr Michálek. Now a mandatory but important warning that the transposition deadline expired on 7 June last year and that infringement proceedings were initiated by the Commission. There is therefore a risk that the Commission will shortly bring the matter before the Court of Justice for a decision and for the imposition of a fine. However, I am glad that at this time we have come to the conclusion that the bill is being discussed at second reading and that we are continuing to do so. I am now merely informing, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, that after the general and detailed debate, I would also like to make a possible expert comment on the other amendments if they are tabled, because, as I say, everyone is obviously talking about their area in this area, but, indeed, relatively small changes in this area can lead to a completely new reality and we either want to avoid that, or we want to do this in a controlled way. So thank you for your attention, and then I'll get off again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 31/1 to 5. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Šimon Heller, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has completely burned down my pond because he has already informed me of everything. He described the way in which the committee was conducted and described the specific proposals that had been made. He even reasoned why he supported them. That means I'll refer to his performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u5	Thank you, too. I am now opening up a general debate in which I have Mr Lacina Jan up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u6	Thank you. Have a nice Tuesday afternoon. I will allow you to read or familiarize you with the explanatory statement on the amendment that you will find recorded in the system under number 1274, which is the following way. Article 2 (1) (a) 15, the Copyright Directive on the Single Digital Market, complements the existing catalogue of rights related to copyright law to its press release. The aim of this new regulation is to ensure good journalism in the European Union and citizens' access to information through the promotion of free and pluralistic press. The rights conferred on publishers of printing publications under the Directive are to have the same scope as the rights for reproduction and making available to the public provided for in Directive 2001/29/EC as regards online use by an information society service provider. The provision of licenses and enforcement of rights in press publications in terms of online use by providers of information society services is often complex and inefficient for publishers of print publications in a digital environment. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 15 implemented already in 2019, it is clear that the instruments contained in the directive themselves are not sufficient to achieve the intended objective effectively. French legislation only took over the text of the directive as regards the relationship between publishers and providers of information society services, in a similar way to the Czech legislation proposed. The immediate consequence of the adoption of the new French legislation was that the dominant provider of the information society service, i.e. the Internet search engine, reduced the displayed content to links and very short extracts for which no license is needed. The legislation at first had an effect quite contrary to what was intended by the European legislature, since the publishers of printing publications not only received no remuneration but also reduced their visibility in the online environment. The French publishers therefore turned to the Antimonopoly Office, which, by means of a preliminary measure of 9 April 2020, imposed an obligation on the dominant information society service provider to display, in its original scope, and at the same time to act in good faith, with the publisher who expressed an interest in granting the licence. On the initiative of the dominant information society service provider, the procedure of the Antimonopoly Office was reviewed by a court which, by decision of 8 October 2020, found the preliminary measure legal. On the basis of these decisions, the dominant information society service provider was therefore obliged to negotiate with publishers and to reduce the displayed content only if the publisher refuses to accept a fair remuneration. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 15 The directive is a gap that allows the information society service provider to circumvent the point of the article cited. This gap had to be subsequently completed by a decision of the French Antimonopoly Office due to the lack of legal regulation. Since similar developments have occurred in France, this means the efforts of some information society services providers to avoid paying the remuneration for the use of print publications, it can be expected in the other Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, it seems appropriate to include insurance in the text itself, which will prevent the French scenario from repeating itself. In this way, it approached Italy's problem, where Law No 4 of 8 November 2021 was approved on 8 November 2021. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2014-2020. 15 Directive by means of amendment of Copyright Act No. 633 of 1941 and which imposes an obligation on an information service provider to negotiate the amount of remuneration, prohibits the provider of an information society service from eliminating the publisher's press publication for information society services during the negotiation period, regulates the procedural mechanism by which the dispute over the amount of remuneration can be decided effectively, obliges the information society service provider to submit to the competent authority the documents necessary to determine the fair amount of remuneration, provides for a significant penalty for breach of obligations arising from the law. There is a fine up to 1 per cent of turnover. It is proposed to take over these elements and to extend the provisions of Section 87b of the Copyright Act accordingly. The Ministry of Culture is proposed as an institution that could perform the role of arbitrary. It is an authority which has a copyright law in gesec and is intended to supervise publishers in the context of the supervision of the collective administrator, inter alia, compliance with the obligations of the collective administrator relating to the creation of tariff rates. In determining the amount of remuneration pursuant to § 87b para. 12 In particular, the Ministry will take into account the criteria set out in § 87b para. 10. This does not exclude applications and other appropriate criteria, but the amount of remuneration should reflect the extent to which the information society service operator uses the press publication, the territorial scope of use, the intervention of the press publication in relation to the public, the efforts made by the publisher to obtain content of the press publication, the economic benefits that the information society service provider derive from the use of the press publication. The criteria for determining the amount of remuneration can be expected to develop over time. Their application should lead to the creation of established decision-making practice and thus to the creation of awareness of the usual level of remuneration by the parties, or the manner in which it is determined, which would lead to a gradual reduction in the frequency of cases where the Ministry of Culture will have to be involved in the decision-making of the amount of remuneration. With regard to the status of significant operators of information society services and the essential influence that they may exercise in their relations with publishers in the use of press publications online, publishers should be given fair, equal and non-discriminatory access by operators of information society services, including the right to a reasonable remuneration for the use of their press publications, proposed extension of § 87b para. 9. [[16.20 hours]] At the same time, however, publishers should be protected from acts which are not of a discriminatory nature in themselves, but whose aim is to circumvent the right of the publisher, thus being able to damage the publisher in a similar way, see Section 87b para. 14. Such conduct may consist in refusing to negotiate with the publisher in good faith on the granting of the right of use of its publication, in arbitrary restriction or modification of the information society service, in such a way that the relevant information society service operator would exclude the need to obtain the right to exercise the right to use a printing publication from a particular publisher without having a fair reason for such restriction or modification. This provision applies only to providers of information society services with a dominant position on the service market, which is limited or modified. This provision does not contain an absolute prohibition of restrictions or modifications to the information society service, but only such restrictions or adjustments designed to circumvent the right of the publisher, and implies arbitrary restrictions or adjustments to the service without a fair cause. The concept of a fair reason does not need to be further defined as it is used repeatedly in the Czech legal system. In the context of the application of a fair reason, arbitrary restrictions or adjustments to the service should be interpreted. It is therefore a restriction or modification for which an information society service operator with a dominant position on the market does not have a fair reason. Finally, abuse of a dominant position on the market to obtain the right to exercise the right to use a printing publication under conditions disproportionately disadvantageous for publishers. The dominant position is defined in Section 10 of Law No. 143/2001 Sb. In this way, a clear framework will be set for negotiations between information society providers and publishers located outside the collective governance sphere, while at the same time being universally effective, including in the case of representation by a collective administrator, a restriction will be imposed to prevent circumvention of the right of the publisher, in particular the obligation to refrain from withdrawing the press publication of publishers from the information society service or the publisher from being otherwise disadvantaged without the provider of the information society service first attempting to obtain a license in a proper manner for the use of printing publications. Here I would like to do a full stop and the others in a detailed debate. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u7	Thank you. Before I give the opportunity to speak to President Michálek with priority rights, I shall draw up my apologies. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes from 16.30 to 19.00 for working reasons, ondOndřej Benešík for the whole day for work reasons, Minister Vladimír Balaš for the whole day for health reasons. And I will now ask President Michálek to speak in a debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u8	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would also like to introduce you to the amendment tabled by myself and the rapporteur, Mr Šimon Heller. This is an amendment that has dealt with a long-term problematic situation with hardware, hairdressers and a number of other establishments where fees are levied, where there is no legal reason for this. We need to distinguish between two situations: either there is a TV or a radio receiver in an establishment and it is designed to increase the turnover of the traffic, make money on it, and then it is logical, correct and in accordance with the law to pay fees there, but from that we have to distinguish the situation where the receiver, or simply the radio or television, has the operation and it has it only for its own entertainment if it has downtime at work, and it doesn't bring any money into the business. For example, when I go to a hardware store, I go there to buy screws or something that I need at home to fix my apartment, and I certainly don't go there to listen and relax in music or on television. So this is not really profitable and it should not be subject to collective management, it should not be subject to charges. Nevertheless, and there are many and many such cases, I recommend asking lawyers who deal with these cases, and even getting to the Constitutional Court, that collective administrators collect those fees in these hardware, hairdressing and other operations, where legal conditions are not met, and simply rely on the low level of defence or legal literacy of entrepreneurs, businessmen who, of course, are not prepared to face such an unequal fight in the face of a huge organisation collecting fees with many and many lawyers. So that is why we were based on the judgments of the Constitutional Court, but also on the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, in order to resolve this problematic situation, in order to provide clear instruction in the law, clear support for these entrepreneurs, that they do not need to be afraid and that, indeed, in cases where the purpose is not profitable, such a fee may not apply. This has been processed into Amendment 1303 and, finally, after the negotiations, which I would say difficult, dramatic, we have managed to reach a coalition agreement, for which I thank our coalition partners and the Minister, who has announced that he will support the amendment, and I think it is also clear that this government supports tradesmen, promotes activity and will in no way tolerate the bullying of some people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u9	Thank you and Mr Lubomír Brož has now made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u10	Thank you. In that conclusion, I understood that the government was not throwing overboard businessmen and small entrepreneurs. So he's throwing artists overboard, can I understand that? All I have is another case, because we're on very thin ice. Now, I don't call it that, but let's think again, when we talk about examples - a ceramics store and where customers feel good about themselves, they play a radio. How is it in this case? The logic that we heard here a while ago, so in the store, for example, Malva or Wallpaper, isn't something that serves the purpose of doing business and earning money, so wouldn't the relevant businessman have to pay for it? So I'm just putting another aspect into the discussion because we're on really very, very thin ice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now President Jakub Michálek will speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u12	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for the questions, it is certainly something that we should be discussing. I will recall that, in fact, the same or similar proposal was made by members of the ANO movement during the previous parliamentary term, submitted by colleagues from the SPD, so it is not on the ground of this Chamber of Deputies any new one. We really need to judge this by whether the communication to the public or in this case is of a profitable nature, and if it is intended only for a very small circle of people, so as you have named for example the example that it actually uses some operation as a luxury hairdresser to have some nice background music, then, of course, the author's reward for using his author's work is due. We must also follow this legal principle in order to admit to everyone what belongs to him, but rather not to require those traders to pay payments that they are not entitled to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u13	Thank you and Mrs Klára Kocmanová will now speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, thank you for getting to know the amendments from the Ministry's point of view. However, I would like to make a brief comment on the three amendments that have been approved by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. [[16.30 hours]] The first proposal, as has already been mentioned, abolishes the emergence of an extended collective management that would drive virtually all Czech media under one roof of a mandatory collective administrator. This will ensure that even small independent publishers have contractual freedom and will not be under pressure from large media houses that would otherwise decide to distribute license fees to all publishers. With the second amendment, I want to achieve greater protection for users against automatic preventative blocking of Internet content by artificial intelligence. The automatic filters that the implementation of the directive brings will certainly not be perfect, and we, behind the pirát, want to avoid removing legitimate content such as memes, i.e. parody created using part of the work. In the third amendment, the explicit declaration is that the obligations imposed on cloud storage operators by an amendment to the Copyright Act do not give rise to an obligation to actively monitor and filter all content that users upload to the platform. Such monitoring could lead, for example, to users not recording content that is inconsistent with mainstream policy opinions due to monitoring concerns. I consider it particularly important today, when, due to disinformation, a number of people are losing confidence in state institutions, to make this explicit in the directive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u15	Thank you, Madame, and now Mrs Pokorná Jermanová has joined the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief and repeat only what I said here in the first reading. The bill presented from the pen of the previous government was very complexly balanced and discussed across the entire professional public, and at this point, what I was worried about was that there would be amendments that would shift its sense a little bit, and I do not think that this is the right way. We should also look at the comments made by collective administrators on the amendments tabled. We all get it into our e-mails, and I think it's a great shame that the consensus that was created here in the past government has been disrupted by this, and I don't think it's gonna do any good. Then I'll give a more detailed statement at the third reading, where I think the space is better than the second reading. However, I must express my great regret in this way that we have not been able to maintain such a complex and negotiated consensus of the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Ondřej Babka came forward with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u18	Thanks for the word. Well, I guess I'll follow up on my colleague Jermanová, and I have a question for the Minister, because I'm sure he gets e-mails from those professional associations, whether it's the Association of Commercial Televisions, the Association for Internet Development, the Chamber of Commerce, which sent a joint opinion to the Section of Cultural and Creative Industry, the International Federation of Music Industry, and they all take the view that they would like the copyright law - and even though it was mentioned here, it was a complex compromise already in the past governments - that this House press 31 should be approved as prepared by the Ministry of Culture and as it was sent here, without change. That means, Minister - and now I'm sorry, I don't know if I heard correctly in your opening speech - that the Ministry of Culture supports the amendments? Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? Please, Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am just making a few comments on Mr Lacina's amendment. There is an invented mechanism that, unless there is an agreement between an information society service provider and a publisher, there is some sort of management that will be decided by the Ministry of Culture. Rather, just a question of why it should be the Ministry of Culture: because it will eventually end up with a decision and it will be reviewed according to part five of the OSŘ. The problem is that the jurisdiction of the court will then be in the district courts, and we, when we're suing for any disputes with copyright, we have the jurisdiction of regional courts, we have specialized judges there today, who do it every day, and all of a sudden by doing this, we would basically assess this thing, which is inherently copyright, so it's actually going to be completely off the line, and it's going to be basically unspecialized judges. So there's more to consider, then, whether to move the local jurisdiction right here to these judges, to have a local regional court, or to make a dispute about a higher reward even the courts decide, and that would be settled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u21	I thank Minister Šalomoun. Do I ask again whether anyone is reporting to the general debate? It's not like that. So I am now ending the general debate. And I'm asking if there's an interest in final words? Minister, after a detailed debate, okay. The rapporteur? Not either. So I am now initiating a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Jan Lacina, Mr Lacina, has taken the floor in detail. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. At this point, I would just like to sign up for Amendment 1274, which I am here in the general debate, I would say that I have very detailed reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u23	Thank you, and I am now reporting to the debate in detail, and I will ask my colleague to replace me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u24	Let me say hello to all of you, and the Vice-President is reporting to the debate in detail. And before that... I didn't notice if Prime Minister Michálek applied? You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u25	Thank you for the floor. I therefore refer to the amendment, which is recorded in the system under 1303, and I have read the reasoning in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u26	Yes, thank you, and now Vice-President Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to sign up for an amendment concerning the so-called space treaties under House document 1206. And now for a brief statement of reasons. The current setting of the text of the law and business practice leads to permanent reduction of the rights of all creative professions involved in the creation of audiovisual and purely audio-visual works. Film and music producers conclude contracts with authors and performers in which they purchase all their property rights for specific works or performances, in such a way that for all uses, such as non-existent ones, for the entire duration of property rights, sometimes tens of years, and for unlimited territorial scope. The problem is not so much to the extent of these contracts as it is to the reward that the authors receive for them. A normal business model is the payment of a one-off reward for the author, where this reward no longer takes into account how much the author's work is used. The law remembers these situations, but only marginally, by the Institute of Authors' Rights to demand additional remuneration. This is called a bestseller clause, but it is very limited for the application and is essentially not used. We therefore propose that a one-off remuneration can only be negotiated in the contract if the contract does not last more than one year without a limited factual scope of the licence, or five years if the substantive scope of the licence is not universal, it will be limited. [[16.40 hours]] In my opinion, this is an acceptable and appropriate intervention in private relations, because, as a result, it is nothing more than the provision of the opportunity of the author to renegotiate with the producer about their contractual relationship at a given time. It is given the same opportunity to discuss the contract with both the author and producer and, where appropriate, not continue it. It is important to recall that this would only apply to contracts concluded in the future. This is a simple way to straighten out the rights of small authors, individuals or individuals and large Czech and international companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u28	Thank you. As I do not see anyone else enrolled in the detailed debate, this concludes the detailed debate. And I'm asking for the final word. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, we are careful to see what amendments are being tabled in the various parts of the legislative process, so I would like to give you a brief opinion, or rather our opinion - that is not an opinion in this sense, that is to say, an opinion on the other three amendments that have appeared here. The first is therefore Mr Michálek's proposal, which complements Section 23 of the Copyright Act on the negative definition of the concept of public communication in the case of radios and televisions in certain premises. I consider it necessary to mention that the concept of public communication is an autonomous concept of Union law and its interpretation is solely for the EU Court of Justice. He also interpreted it in a number of judicates, other judicates on this subject are expected in the future and it is not excluded that the proposed definition will prove inadequate or inaccurate. I stress that the proposed provision can only be interpreted in euro conformity, so that the establishment in which the disclosure of protected works will not be considered to be a communication to the public will have to meet all the proposed criteria at once. That's very important. I will repeat this once again: it will have to meet all the proposed criteria at once, and these criteria are: accessibility only for a narrow circle of people, randomly and independently of the wishes of the beneficiaries, and non-profit-making nature. As a result, this amendment will only affect a very limited number of establishments, in some sense the petitioner has already mentioned it. I would also like to add that this amendment raised great concerns with many stakeholders, mostly rights holders. We have been approached, we have looked at this subject in detail and we consider it - I would like to stress - to be some kind of border position on this matter. I am therefore prepared to give, on the basis of the agreement that has been mentioned here, an agreement on this proposal, but I also want to assure you that the entire path to this amendment has been lined by a number of previous negotiations. It is not the same as the amendments that appeared here, for example during the last or last parliamentary term of the House, when the implementation of the so-called Marrakesh Agreement was implemented and which were much more radical in this regard. So as I was saying, yes, we are ready to give - or I am ready to give - a consenting opinion on this proposal, but it is the very last limit that can be put into the copyright law on this matter, and we are aware that this is not a matter that is completely unambiguous. The other thing is Mrs Kovářová's amendment. This is a restriction on the scope of cases where it would be possible or where it should be possible to negotiate a licence fee in the form of a one-off flat-rate payment. These are contracts of the so-called buy-out regime. It can be said that this subject is regularly discussed, but it is a matter which is extremely complicated, and we do not believe it - with all due respect, of course, that the Member has tabled this amendment and the justification it has put forward here - this amendment may have very significant negative effects on the licensing market and, in fact, lead to a deterioration in the position of some authors and performers. Therefore, we cannot agree with this amendment, which I say in the comments before the committee talks, where either I or my colleagues will also deliver. There is one important thing I would like to add to that. Mrs Kovářová's amendment and the amendment tabled by Mrs Michálek here now have one identical one, that is to say it affects an area which, in the long term under copyright, is considered to be very sensitive and will always be the subject of some debate, will always be the subject of discussions between the various actors whose opinions are essentially unsavourable or difficult to reconcile, but the difference is that Mr Michálek's amendment, which concerns communication to the public and which we are working in our internal minister's jargon called iron industry, has undergone some major discussions. I have already mentioned, Mr Michálek, through the Vice-President, that for my ministry it is some limit to what is possible in this matter, but still acceptable, while the amendment by Mrs Kovářová in this form would represent a very serious one, I would say, in a certain way, a dangerous intervention in the environment of relations between authors, producers, other actors, but I would like to assure Mrs Kovářová that we, for example, are dealing with this subject by analogy in the context of audiovision. By the way, I would mention that an agreement or memorandum has now been signed between producers and individual broadcasters in the Czech Republic on the basis of our ministerial initiative, which was then drafted by Mr Salvetr's proposal for an amendment. So it is not a topic that has been heard in the long run, but we simply believe that, in this form, the amendment would not have fulfilled what is expected of it, on the contrary, it would have made the situation even more difficult for those to defend. But I'm sure this topic is not closed in the future. The last thing I would comment on is Mr Lacina's amendment, which concerns the implementation of Art. 15 Copyright Directive on the single digital market and the newly introduced rights of periodicals for their publications, which aim to strengthen the protection of publishers, in addition to the protection provided by Article 15 (1) (a) of the Directive. 15 of the Directive even more vis-à-vis providers of information society services with a dominant position on the market. I want to say, I think it is essential that this be said publicly that this amendment is the result of very intensive discussions between the various actors. In fact, this amendment has already been the subject of the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports before the holiday break in the House meeting. At the time, we asked to postpone the discussion of this amendment precisely in order to discuss this very complicated issue, which concerns this amendment, I would say, on a work-based basis, from all sides. The reason for this is that this is a new issue since this legislation was adopted and which concerns a very sensitive issue of the relationship between publishers versus so-called large platforms. Of course, even the so-called large platforms have already reached out to you, there are several such proofs of establishing communication from the environment of these platforms, but we believe that the amendment in the text mentioned here by Mr Lacina, in this form, would mean the appropriate application of what is being pursued in the Czech legal environment. And it really wasn't easy to grasp the subject in some way and then adjust it. [[16.50 hours]] And I would like to mention the response to Minister Šalomoun's question. Of course, we are aware, Minister, that this is a very simple matter in relation to determining who will resolve the disputes. In the end, we chose this path because these possible disputes also contain commercial legal aspects, so that is why we chose this path. But it's not a subject that's completely clear, it's obvious. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-27-ps2021-035-05-002-010.u30	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if the Minister is still interested in the final word? He doesn't. The rapporteur? Not either. In the absence of proposals to be voted on in detail in the debate, I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. And we'll keep going. We'll go back to the point we interrupted before point 10 and that's the point
