ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-003-006.u1	6. Government bill on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment / House print 55/ - second reading Anna Hubáčková, Minister of the Environment, shall state the application submitted for the applicant. I also have an updated procedural proposal to merge the debate, but I will now ask the rapporteur. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-003-006.u2	Hello. Thank you so much for giving me the floor, Madam President. Good day to you all, ladies and gentlemen. Let me just briefly mention, in the second reading, the draft law on limiting the impact of selected plastic products on the environment, which is the first of the two laws at the same time which regulate the environmental impact of certain one-off pay products. The aim of the proposed bill is the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2019/904 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the limitation of the environmental impact of certain plastic products into the Czech legal order. The subject matter of the amendment to the proposed law is the adoption of measures ensuring the full transposition of this Directive. These are in particular the following measures: Prohibition of the placing on the market and circulation of certain selected plastic products. Labelling of products for the purpose of informing the end-user of the presence of plastic in the selected plastic product. The introduction of an extended producer liability system for certain types of selected plastic products and associated obligations. In particular, it will cover the costs of cleaning the waste from these products to municipalities. Implementation of awareness activities for end-users of selected plastic products. Other measures are then regulated in the accompanying amendment law, in the Houses of the Press 56. I merely recall that this is a transposition that was to be approved last year. Therefore, I would just like to appeal to discuss this law in order to avoid a situation similar to that of my colleague, Minister Baxa, who said that the infringement proceedings have already been dealt with by a fine. In the case of this transposition, infringement proceedings have already been initiated. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the amendments tabled, for a very good discussion both in the committee and outside, and ask for a second reading today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-003-006.u3	Thank you, too. I'm gonna ask you to take a seat at the news desk. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 55/1 and 2. I ask now that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Berenika Peštová, should take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-003-006.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment number 37 of 13 April 2022 on the Government's proposal to limit the impact of selected plastic products on the environment, House print 55: [[9.50 hours]] "After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Environment . Vladimír Mana, M, intelligence report by . Berenika Peštová, ., and after the debate of the Committee on the Environment of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted" - which I would like to refer to the Parliamentary press number 55/2, which has been electronically delivered to you; "II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment; IV. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'; And I may be able to shed some light on the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment. The first amendment ensures a complete transposition of Directive 2019/904 in relation to the introduction of an extended producer responsibility system with regard to equipment containing plastics. Member States are to monitor fishing gears containing plastics placed on the market of a Member State, as well as collection waste fisheries containing plastics, and report to the European Commission. In addition, Member States are to ensure that manufacturers of fishing gear containing plastics cover the costs of sorting the collection of waste gear containing plastics and the costs of their subsequent transport and processing. After sending the bill to the Chamber of Deputies, the European Commission subsequently expressed the view that the requirements of the extended responsibility of the manufacturer for fishing gear, including the withdrawal, apply also to the European Union's inland states, not only to those with marine waters. The second amendment is of a legislative technical nature, pushing the effectiveness of the bill. The originally proposed effectiveness on 1 July 2022 has obviously ceased to be up-to-date and it is therefore proposed to take effect on the first day of the second calendar month following the date of its publication. I would still like to propose a procedural proposal. My proposal is to merge the debate of Parliament's press 55 and 56. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-03-ps2021-025-04-003-006.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a proposal that we must vote immediately, which is why I will call on my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. For returning colleagues, I am merely stating that they know what we are voting on, that there has been a proposal from the rapporteur to merge the general debate to the press number 55, that is paragraph 6, which we are discussing now, and the following point 7, that is, the press number 56. Once the numbers are settled, we will begin voting on the merger of the debate. I see that already is. That's why I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 53, 165 Members and Members signed in for 126, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have merged the general debate on these two prints. That's why I'm interrupting item number 6 right now and starting item number
