ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u1	143. Oral inhalation I would like to ask that Mrs Alena Schillerová be the first to speak to Prime Minister Petr Fiala today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, allow me to present my intervention. I believe you, Prime Minister, recorded yesterday's treasury budget implementation. It ended with a deficit of about 189,5 billion - not about, certainly - but the important thing is that according to the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, from which I drew, tax revenues, including insurance, increased by almost 60 billion. The state here benefits daily from price growth and increases its tax collection. At the same time, from the year-on-year comparison - I actually select the two most important figures - it is concluded that transfers to business entities have also fallen by around 60 percent compared to last year. There was 60 billion, there is 60 percent, and if you want nominally, it is almost 45 billion crowns, because of course logically no longer pays compensation to entrepreneurs as much as for covid during the same period last year. So these numbers are quite logical. Our government had to deal with the biggest health crisis in the modern history of the Czech Republic and we succeeded. There was no massive crippling of the Czech economy. Czech companies survived, households did not fall into poverty and the current unemployment figures published by the Czech Statistical Office this week - 2.4 percent - are telling me the truth. At the same time, the second interesting issue of the Czech Statistical Office: the level of economic activity is 77,5 percent at its historical maximum. But let me tell you a specific story. Entrepreneurs are looking at me more and more often, and I would like to give you one particular example for all of them. Mrs. Baďurová is texting me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u3	Please, time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u4	So I'm gonna have to get off again, or you won't know what Mrs Baďurová says, which is the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u5	I thank you at this moment, ask for a response, and now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what Mrs Baďurová writes, you can tell me on the supplementary question. Of course, we have set limits here. I am aware of the figures you have mentioned here, and of course the fact that the state budget has a deficit of CZK 189 billion at the moment is not joyful. Of course, we had to deal with the consequences of the negative consequences of how the previous government managed. That is why we have prepared a budget that is austerity, and we will try to keep the budget in line with the negative phenomena that we have to face and that no one could count on, which is the impact of Russian aggression on Ukraine in order to keep it in reasonable numbers. This is extremely important not because we said so, but to prevent further price increases from being kept under the control of inflation in some way. Let me just remind you that we have approved the anti-inflationary budget, which has an estimated deficit of CZK 280 billion. It is CZK 96.6 billion lower than your government's original proposal, and it is CZK 220 billion lower than last year's budget. This is clearly the anti-inflationary policy of our government. On the other hand, we are not hiding anything, and we honestly said that we are going to prepare a budget adjustment in the middle of this year or after half this year, and there is only one reason. When we prepared the anti-inflationary budget, we adjusted what you came up with and reduced the deficit so significantly, so we could not count on the war in Ukraine, no one could count on it, and this, of course, requires us to update the budget in some way. Yes, we were counting on the state budget revenues to be higher, we honestly counted them in the state budget - to what extent we could count them, of course, because inflation could not be expected to be at this level, even if we were afraid of high inflation due to the high deficits and the rate of debt that has been there in the last two years. But of course, expenditure is growing simultaneously, which is precisely because we are trying to help people, that we are trying to compensate for the effects of energy prices, food prices and everything that is affecting people. We have prepared a number of measures that are summarised in the Umbrella Against Delicateness, and maybe I will be able to return to this in some way during today's interventions. [[14.40 hours]] But what is important is that, despite all the measures that we are doing, and as you know, these are non-existent measures, they are targeted at those who are getting into existential difficulties - we have increased the number of those who are entitled to social benefits, the ease of availability of social benefits, we are doing three pension valorizations - yes, they are increases that have legal justification, but we must allocate to them and find funds in our budget. We just got a second valorization yesterday, we're counting on a third. It is a significant increase in pensions for those who are retired. On average during this year, pensions will increase - and we are not just talking about old age - by CZK 2,500, and that is something our seniors will certainly recognize. That, of course, puts pressure on the state budget, but it's something we're gonna have to deal with. The problem here is inflation. We have the third largest inflation from EU countries, although inflation is also rising from 7,5 percent in March to 8.1 in April and some countries are even worse off than the Czech Republic, but these are only two, so what we have, high inflation in the Czech Republic, these movements of us to be budgetaryly responsible. [[President: Mr President, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u7	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister and I will ask the President if he wants to ask an additional question. I see you do. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u8	Thank you. I could talk to the Prime Minister here for hours, and I have to tell you what Mrs Baďurová - Mrs Baďurová, member of the Board of the Horová zincinovna Bílina, joint stock company, purely Czech family company. She gave me permission to get out here and say it. They started doing business at a former shaft dump in Bílina. They paid over the years, they took over 150 million crowns from the state on all taxes, taxes. They survived the pandemic, they survived the government's zero aid - that's what she literally said - in terms of rising energy prices, but it doesn't seem to survive the last blow that met them, and that's the last reserves and that this company had CZK 35 million in Sberbank, which is beyond insurance. These reserves were to serve to cover the crisis right now and all that has happened to them. She asks: Why doesn't the Czech company, such as this Bílina Žárová zinkovna, a joint-stock company, help? Why they can't be helped by some program, even a returnable, returnable aid. [[President: Madam President: Time.]] Please, what would you advise her to do, Prime Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u9	Thank you and I would now ask the Prime Minister for an answer to the supplementary question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u10	Yes, thank you, so now I have also heard Mrs Baďurová's question. We, of course - the government cannot help all who had the money granted in Sberbank. On the other hand, I would like to say that at least part of those deposits are insured there up to a certain amount, as it corresponds to the law and international rules, and they are then through another bank, it was Komerční banka, paid to people. I understand the problems of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and we have taken a number of steps that can help them. We have taken steps to reduce fuel, which undoubtedly helps entrepreneurs. And it is not only what has come into force now, it is a reduction in excise duty, but I will also mention the abolition of road taxes for vehicles up to 12 tonnes, which, as we know from the conversation with entrepreneurs, helps mainly smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs, delaying VAT payments for road transport entrepreneurs and other and other steps. We have introduced or modified the Programme Guarantee for SMEs 2015 to 2023, by guarantee Forced change of energy supplier, and this is something that the lady called for and mentioned in the question, because it means that it will be provided free of charge up to 80 percent of the principal of the guaranteed loan, the maximum amount may be CZK 2 million, the term of guarantee up to two years, so there is specific assistance for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Of course, it is clear to us that - and we want to do this - there is also a need to help in some way more strongly and to go against rising energy prices. As you know, the government is preparing an austerity tariff... and that will certainly help everyone. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Síla, who was drawn in second place, will speak with the next interview and Mrs Marie Pošarová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Prime Minister, I have decided to interpel you because people in the North Moravian Region are very concerned about the media statements made by Minister Jurečka and Minister Černochová regarding the establishment of an American military base in the Czech Republic. This would, of course, become the first target for possible Russian bombings for understandable reasons. My question is: what is the difference between a legislative military center and a military base? And the second question: How is it treated that the Czech logistics centre of the Czech Army will not become a cut of the pen by NATO military base, or American military base, when both states are NATO members? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u13	Thank you for the intervention and I would now request the Prime Minister's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u14	Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question, because on Wednesday 25 May, the Minister of Defence informed the Government of the intention to conclude a memorandum of cooperation with the Moravian-Silesian Region on the preparation of the territory for the construction of the logistics centre of the Czech Army near the airport in Ostrava - Mošnov. But I want to say that the logistics center in Mošnov will not be the base of foreign troops, it will be a non-combat base of the Army of the Czech Army and there is no intention either, it has never been declared or confirmed by anyone that there should be a base on which foreign troops operate. How it is treated: it is treated quite simply because we have legislation and very strong legislative protection, when any movement and residence of members of foreign military units in the territory of the Czech Republic is undergoing a complex approval process, in which Parliament plays a key role, i.e. the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic, so it cannot happen that someone from the government is saying: There will be a Czech logistics center, and it has become an unexpected base for someone else. That's what our legislation remembers, and nothing like that is possible. As I was saying, there is an intention to close a memorandum with the Moravian-Silesian Region. The Moravian-Silesian Region is very interested in creating this logistics centre. The first step must be to sign a memorandum, so far we are in a state of intent. The Memorandum will ensure a free transfer of land in close proximity to Ostrava Airport and this signature should take place during June, only after the memorandum has been agreed by the executive bodies of the Moravian-Silesian Region. Only then can the preparatory and project work begin and the assumption is that construction could start first in 2024. [[14.50 hours]] I believe that everything will lead to a successful end, because I have heard a lot of speeches and opinions from the representatives of the Moravian-Silesian region who definitely want something like this. They wish to strengthen the presence of members of the Army of the Czech Republic in their region, the logistics centre evaluates it as a great contribution to the region. It is of course also a contribution to the Army of the Czech Republic, which does not have sufficient representation in such a strategic place. This project will, of course, strengthen the defence of the Czech Republic and offer the army an excellent background in the region in which the long-term army was strongly represented. From the evaluations that are going on and that we hear from people who know and are experts, they say that this is also good news for the future of Mošnov Airport and for the Moravian-Silesian Region, because hundreds of new qualified jobs will be created here. Therefore, my colleague from the Government and from the ODS, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who is known as the Moravian-Silesian Region, supports the project from the beginning. I think that the intention to build this logistics centre of the Czech Army in Ostrava in Mošnov is also an important signal to Czech citizens, it is also an important signal to allies that we mean it seriously by increasing our defense expenditure, that we have concrete projects for this and that there is actually some centre, an army project that will be unique by its connection to air, rail, road transport infrastructure in one place, and Ostrava Airport is ideal for this purpose because it is able to receive large transport aircraft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u15	Thank you very much. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? I see you do. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u16	I would just like to point out that you have so many signals from the people of the Moravian-Silesian region that they would like this base, if it would not be appropriate to hold a referendum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u17	Thank you for the additional question. I will now ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u18	I happen to see the captain of the Moravian-Silesian Region here, but I'm not referring to him. I just know that I can say that even his support has this project. The project has the support of the authorities of the Moravian-Silesian Region, and I think it is important, and I do not see much sense in putting a referendum on those matters that concern security and defence. We here this project, which will help the Army of the Czech Republic, the defence of the Czech Republic, will help the Moravian-Silesian Region, I think that we should run the project as quickly as possible and take advantage of all the possibilities and opportunities offered by this project. By making a commitment by the Czech Republic, the Czech Government, to increase the resources we are giving in defence, I think we have here one of the projects that can be well supported by this means. Again, it is not money that disappears somewhere, it is money that will be used to create new jobs. It is an opportunity for Czech companies, it is an opportunity for the development of the Moravian-Silesian region, which, as you know, belongs to regions that are in some way disadvantaged, and all of this brings together a good picture. But at the beginning, you asked the question that citizens are worried that there's gonna be some foreign base, that we're in NATO, so somebody's gonna come. I think I've been convincing about the first answer - and I don't have to say that - that's in the legislation, that's what the law says - that something like this is not possible without broad social consent. But again, we're not planning anything like this, it's the logistics center of the Army of the Czech Republic, and that's how it's going to stay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u19	Thank you so much for keeping time. Mrs Marie Pošarová will speak with further intervention and Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská will prepare herself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask why the Czech Republic, namely the Government, will not decide to leave the Leipzig Stock Exchange and will not only sell energy surpluses on the stock market in the same way as France, why at least you are not discussing this. I understand that France is a 100% owner, the Czech Republic 70 percent, but here we have the opportunity to threaten energy companies with a 50 percent tax on the energy core as well as in Slovakia. We make it from the core for 0.25 kroner per kilowatt, but we deliver it to people for about 10 kroner per kilowatt hour. Slovakia has it for 1.50 crowns. There's a possibility, if 30 percent minority owners, just give it to the compensation, or expropriate it in the public interest, the court would, of course, decide. The possibility is to suspend the payment of dividends for ten years and another option is within the Czech Republic within the ERÚ, which regulates only transmission and distribution, while in Slovakia the Slovak ERÚ regulates the price of the power electricity itself, which accounts for 40 percent of the total price. Let's at least use these options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u21	Thank you, Madame, for the interview, and I will now request the Prime Minister's floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u22	Yes. Madam, thank you for this question, because sometimes there is a lot of confusion here and unfortunately the ignorance of the real situation, but I do not blame anyone, because the issue is really very complex and it is not easy to fully understand, it is not easy to fully understand that some energy products are being sold and purchased, even by ČEZ, for example with some annual or even two-year term, so for example an intervention that would look simple, which we would now do, would not actually cause anything at the moment and would affect some future situation that none of us can predict right now. But you have answered your own question, and that, I think, is the most important. As a state, we are not the only decisive owner, we have only the majority, and we are doing what we can, because the path you are proposing here would lead to arbitration and huge problems that the Czech Republic can hardly afford. But what we do and do it consistently is that we use ČEZ's profits for Czech citizens to reduce prices for the effects of rising energy prices. We simply use everything we get in this way for Czech citizens, and I think that is important. I just want to say to ČEZ that he is, of course, a major supplier of electricity, which he supplies about 3 million Czech households, also supplies gas to his customers, even though it is smaller there, it is about half a million Czech households. As I said before, the Czech Republic is a majority shareholder, we hold about 70 percent of the shares, but from that number it is clear that we are not the only shareholder, which makes it difficult for the state - and logical - to influence the company's behaviour, because it is necessary to respect the interests of minority shareholders, who very often turn to the court in case they feel damaged. CEZ does not set prices according to itself, but, given the interconnectedness of energy markets, it follows the evolution of prices on the stock exchange. This measure aims at ensuring sufficient electricity production at any moment, because every newly connected source that is at the top is more expensive. [[15.00 hours]] I agree with you that rising energy prices for citizens and companies are a major problem not only in the Czech Republic. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is affecting energy prices virtually throughout Europe. We are also doing this repeatedly at the relevant European levels, at the European Council meetings and at the meetings of the Council of the European Union. Our government is doing what it can in this situation and what has an immediate impact at the moment, that is, we are helping citizens who get into trouble as a result of rising energy prices to cope with this situation. We have expanded the number of people who can receive a housing allowance, so they can be helped by the state to cope with rising energy prices and thus with the higher household costs that they logically have. If we do nothing, the situation for many households will be very difficult. Of course, these steps that we are doing are worth something and can be used to finance these actions from dividends, from profits, which are thanks to the fact that we are a shareholder who owns 70 percent of ČEZ shares, which means that we have the funds and that we can use them, of course. You rightly said that energy price regulation is being dealt with by the Energy Regulatory Authority. Regulated is part of the final price for consumers in the area of distribution prices. Although the Energy Regulatory Authority has certain powers, it does not affect the non-regulated component of the price and its amount is due to the evolution of electricity prices in the wholesale European market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u23	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now I ask the honourable Member, does he want to ask an additional question here? I see you do. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u24	I understand that the Czech Republic therefore has 70 percent of the shares, but Slovakia has only 34 percent of the shares and there it can be done, there was an agreement within the framework of energy producers. So I would like our government to deal more with ČEZ and other energy producers. I would also like to ask: If we produce electricity from the core for 0.25 kroner per kilowatt hour, why are we selling it and distributing it for 10 kroner? And why are we paying the most in the world - I repeat, once again, the most in the world - for electricity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u25	I thank the Member for the supplementary question. I would now ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u26	It is related to what I have described, that is, what is the structure of the energy market in the Czech Republic, also what is the ownership structure and structure of distribution, but also what are the legislative conditions for us to intervene in these matters. Speaking of the price of electricity, I'll reminisce. We have regulation here in the form of an official price. We have a regulated part of the final price for consumers in the area of distribution prices, here the Energy Regulatory Authority can set it up. But we have an unregulated component, and this amount is due to the evolution of electricity prices in the wholesale European market and the business model of individual suppliers. Neither the Energy Regulatory Office nor the State can intervene. But you know, because we've already publicly announced that we're thinking of some kind of austerity tariff that would provide some energy for households at more affordable prices. If we do this, it will, of course, have an impact on the state budget. Here we need to consider how much we want and can afford to take this necessary step for Czech citizens and households in view of the rising prices, but how much, on the other hand, we will strengthen the state budget deficit, which we cannot afford to increase because of inflation and because it would lead to further price increases. So in the meantime, we are looking for the right balance so that we can really help citizens and companies with energy prices, and at the same time not cause yet another, bigger problem. We must always take into account the property and legislative conditions that the energy market in each country is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u27	Thank you. Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská will now speak with the next interview, Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I'm glad I was drawn for an interview. My question may be a little more smiling for you, not as serious as my colleague had before me. I know that the Czech Post doesn't belong to your gesture, it belongs to the Ministry of the Interior. I don't know if you've been to any of the branches of the Czech Post lately. I have to go there from time to time, there have to be other people and others. The opening hours of branches were adjusted at the time of the covido. We all thought it would be temporary. I don't know how Prague works. Large cities work so that they are open at least on Saturday, at least for a while in the morning. In our village, Saturdays are closed. People who commute to work have no way of getting into that branch, they only have to take a vacation. Do you think that's entirely right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u29	Thank you, Madame, for the interview. I would now request the floor of Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u30	Madam, thank you for your question. You said that he would - I don't want to misinterpret you - be more pleasant and perhaps less important, but he's not. I consider it very important and thank you for it, because I think that the quality of the services of the Czech Post is very important. It has a serious impact on the quality of life of our citizens. The availability of postal services is also very important in order to maintain quality of life, for example, in small municipalities where there are really sometimes problems, even because there is no school, the pub is closed, trade is difficult to survive, and when postal services are harder to reach, the quality of life really decreases. You asked me if I was ever - or recently - at a branch of the Czech Post. Well, yes, he was. I am also a citizen with a normal life, so I have to use the branches of the Czech Post. And as happy as I am with that particular branch, I don't want to comment on that right now. I just want to say that opening hours at small and medium post offices have been adjusted in a uniform way in the Czech Republic. It wasn't in our government, it was in 2020. This should have led to attractive hours for the public and for clients who initially could not make good use of it. The numbers increased according to the post operations carried out and thus increased the economy of small and medium-sized branches. A system of representativeness was created in complicated situations, such as pandemics. Small and medium-sized post offices are de facto opened within the 48-hour interval from 8 to 18 hours in small towns and villages. In particular, on Mondays and Wednesdays, branches are open so that the inhabitants of small towns and villages can use them in the afternoon. For example, clients can pick up stored parcel shipments during the extended afternoon opening hours at the time of their return to their residence this afternoon. And so I could go on. Those are the arguments the post office made here to edit the hours for the public. [[15.10 hours]] However, I must say, of course, that the situation is not simple and I am not entirely satisfied with how the Czech Post has worked so far, and not only in terms of how it worked for clients in all cases, but also that last year the company is counting on the loss of CZK 800 million. This, of course, is an improvement against 2020 when postal management ended with a loss of CZK 1.3 billion after tax, but it is still not a situation in which we would like to see the Czech Post. Czech Post responds to this, tries to search for savings in personnel structure, limits mainly managerial and administrative posts and so on. They are trying to ensure that austerity does not have a major impact on citizens, but, of course, the overall situation is not good. Last March, the post office cancelled some 2,300 jobs, released about 1,500 people, and plans to reduce the number of jobs by 7,000 in the medium term by 2025. So there should be some greater efficiency in the activities of the Czech Post without deteriorating services. To be positive, I want to say that I am very satisfied with how Czech POINTs work at branches of Czech Post, and it is something that I think I certainly appreciate not only me but also a number of other Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Will I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? I see you do. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u32	Dear Prime Minister, the opening hours of the post office throughout the Republic are not unisoned, but I can document this on specific examples. Some branches, yes, are open at least twice or once a week within six hours, some branches until 16.30 and so on and so on. However, when a person commutes to work, and for God's sake, there is a clerk who has to be in his workplace within five hours and who drives a circus for an hour, he simply doesn't find the mail open on a weekday. I'd rather have a small request if you didn't think about, at least for some time, opening the post office on Saturday, not just for these officials.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u33	I thank the Member for asking the supplementary question and now I would like to ask the Prime Minister's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u34	Thank you for the additional question. Well, it is clear from the long-term surveys that a typical postal client will use the Czech Post branch only twice or three times a month, and if the Czech Post preserved the original models, those branches would not be attractive to active and working clients, who especially order goods from the e-shop in the form of parcel services, and these clients are primarily using the afternoon options for picking up shipments, and here the Czech Post is trying to accommodate this strong client group. The demand for traditional postal services, such as letters and money orders, has fallen significantly and a new model has therefore been chosen, with morning and afternoon opening times changing, which seemed to be the only acceptable solution for the post office, an economically acceptable solution that responds to the needs of customers of the parcel market, while not increasing the costs of the company, which are, as I recall, loss-making. So Mondays and Wednesdays are open so that clients can be used in the afternoon, Mondays, Thursdays, Fridays are dealt with by morning clients, which are seniors or mothers on parental leave. But of course, your suggestion is interesting, we'll deal with it. I was told here by Mr Vomáčka, who is also the mayor, that this issue will be dealt with by the subcommittee on rural development. It will deal with both the post offices and the provision of district doctors in small municipalities, so if I recommend that you take a look at the subcommittee meetings and we can apply these suggestions there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u35	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak with the next interview and Mr Radek Rozvoral will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, some energy suppliers are sending new amounts of gas and electricity backup to customers, with a number of people paying hundreds and thousands of crowns a month. Not all of them have the money for these payments. Prague gas company newly introduced backups, sometimes by 60 percent. E.on assumes that about 500,000 customers will be affected by the increase in advances this year. About half of them already have increased backups. Backup increases range from 10 to 15 per cent on average. To those in financial distress, distributors offer individual payment schedules and recommend using available social assistance from the state. Especially because of unpredictable developments in the east of us, it is difficult to predict how the situation in Europe's energy markets will continue to evolve. Yet experts expect rapid increases. Some are talking about a storm whose front will cross our territory at the end of this year. Rent prices will rise, mortgages will become increasingly unavailable, as the interest rate will rise, we will have a wave of rising food and energy, and the impact will be incredibly large for ordinary people. Energy poverty will rise and a much larger share of households will have a major problem with energy spending. I can't imagine in the Ústí Region how this situation can be handled by an ordinary family whose backups will rise to 10,000 crowns, with electricity, food, fuel prices rising. There's nothing left for a family like this to do but graze. What system measures you are finally offering for these citizens, and if you have progressed beyond the "tender" you have offered to people. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u37	I also thank the honourable Member for the oral questioning, and I would now ask the Prime Minister for his reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u38	Thank you, Madame. Well, we can't confuse terms, and I'll take that as a slip. It's an umbrella versus expensive, not, of course, what you called it. And you reminded it right, because that's exactly the kind of help we're offering people. We are well aware that energy prices are rising, and we are well aware that many families have - and logically must - problems. We are doing everything we can to ensure enough energy first, that is a thing that is not easy at all, because the energy security of the Czech Republic is not very good and the previous government has not really done much in this, so we are talking about having enough gas, enough oil, enough products from oil that our citizens and our companies need, which is a need for oil. We're doing enough to have nuclear power. Dukovan's tender for completion has declared our government. We are filling gas storage tanks, searching for options for the construction of Stork II gas pipeline, for LNG terminals and other things. This isn't a trivial thing. We must have enough energy for our citizens, for our companies, and we must ensure that this is the primary task of the government, and if we do this well, the price of energy will also be acceptable for the future. But what we're doing now is helping citizens who have gotten into trouble with energy prices. [[15.20 hours]] Although it is possible to smile over the Umbrella versus expensiveness and call it all sorts of brazen names, it does not help citizens much. But when citizens look at Deštník versus expensively, they find that a lot of measures apply to them, and they well realize the 100 billion crowns that the government sends to citizens precisely to help them with inflation, to help them with expensiveness, to help them with inflation, whose part - I am not saying that most, but part - is also caused by the way the previous government has indebted the Czech Republic and devalued savings to Czech citizens. You ask what we do for people who get into existential trouble, like in the Ústí Region? They'll find the answer on the deštník versus the Expensive. And I'm just gonna remind you of some of it. We have increased the existential and living minimum by 10 percent since April 2022. That's what the citizens will know. And if you understand social benefits, you know that the living and existential minimum and its amount has an impact on a lot of social benefits recipients. This increase will affect 360 000 social benefit recipients, and I don't think you dare tell me that's enough. We have also prepared a rather extensive extension of the range of those entitled to the housing allowance. These, in turn, are other groups of residents who can receive help from the state in this way, and these are exactly the ones you are talking about, and these are even often people who have never received any social benefits and have a psychological problem asking for a social benefit. But we've simplified the rules to extract it to remove all the barriers that are there. We've expanded the number of people who are entitled to it. So I also take advantage of this opportunity, and I ask citizens who have difficulty paying back energy prices, so that they are not afraid to ask for a housing allowance that will certainly help them in this case. Then there is help, which is one-time, where we focused on the middle class, which is clearly also affected by rising prices. And from that we chose a group that is most at risk, those who have children, whether families or singles and singles. We will send them a one-off contribution of CZK 5,000 in a very simple way if their household income - gross, annual - is below or below CZK 1,000,000. That is the concrete help that citizens will feel, and that is the short-term aid. For a short time, energy prices that are growing throughout Europe cannot be resolved, medium- and long-term yes, and that is what our government is working on. But in the short term, we can help citizens who are getting into existential trouble, and we are doing this, and we are doing it massively.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u39	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. At this point, I will ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? I see you do. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u40	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. The colander - I saw he made you laugh too. It's not from me, it's from the citizens I'm talking to, and they're calling it the colander, which is why I mentioned it here. Anyway, you mentioned your help here. I, of course, speak to citizens in the Ústí Region, not only those who live in panel houses, but also those who have houses, took mortgages, and now their fixation ends. And now all of a sudden, by quitting, their payments grew by three, four and more thousand. So you don't think much of these people, because when you take these people's electricity up, they're getting their backups up, and they're already taking precautions, like they're not taking any kids to school... Kids go on a bus that's late because they're in areas where buses go twice or three times a day, that's just the way it is. So they're really trying to save money, but they're finding that it just can't be that they're really going down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u41	Thank you for the supplementary question and I will ask the Prime Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u42	I wouldn't question the fact that people aren't trying to save money, and I'm not even with you about the fact that energy prices cause big problems in a number of families and in a number of households. That's why we took the measures I was talking about, and that's why I pointed out that this could also apply to the population, as you said, to the houses, that suddenly they have trouble paying all the costs associated with the household. I am really aware of this, and that is why we have extended the housing allowance so that even these people who have never belonged to those who would receive social benefits to achieve this social benefit. Of course, we are also trying for them, because there are places where people are dependent on getting into employment at all, not only on public transport that is not sufficient there, but they are also dependent on their cars, so we also tried to take measures to reduce fuel prices. The last of them entered into force a few days ago and should at least to some extent consolidate fuel prices and, respectively, reduce by two crowns. And I am also not hiding from the fact that we are preparing an austerity tariff, i.e. some kind of energy aid on the basis of a tariff, where there will be a limit to which customers will pay a lower price for energy supplies with the financial contribution of the State. The tariff should be up to a certain amount, which means that it would also motivate certain savings and economic behaviour, but at the same time it would mean that there will be guaranteed a lower, more acceptable price for households to cope with rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u43	Prime Minister, thank you very much for keeping time. Mr Radek Rozvoral will speak with the next interview and Mr Martin Kukla will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, my question to you as Prime Minister, who is fully responsible for ensuring the internal security of the Czech Republic, is this: does the government expect an increase in the salaries of security forces, including civil servants in these congregations? Since the New Year, only 700 crowns have been added instead of 1,400 crowns agreed by the previous government, and civilian workers working in the security forces have not received any. My question takes into account the situation where pressures are increasing to 100% ensuring the internal security of the Czech Republic, which is carried out by the security forces. Their service relations, i.e. the legal situation of natural persons performing the service, their remuneration, management of matters of service and organizational matters of service, are governed by the Act on the Service of members of the Security Corps. Your government has been counting on its amendment since 2024. Priority representation and most tasks are provided within the Security Council of the Police of the Czech Republic. As part of the personnel strategy, in order to be able to carry out the tasks set out in full, 45 665 members counted on 31. 12. 2022. Here I will just mention that on 1 May, the occupancy of the posts is only 87 percent, when 40 111 members of the Police of the Czech Republic were in service on 1 May, i.e. more than 5,500 police officers are missing, and there is no assumption that this will change by the end of the year. An immediate increase in salaries for these members would certainly contribute to improving the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for presenting the interpelation and at the same time for keeping up with the time. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u46	Dear Member, thank you for this question. It is important in the sense that we are really aware of the importance of the work of security forces in this difficult situation, we have acted accordingly and we will continue to act accordingly. I'll prove that to you right away on specific numbers. We must realise the situation in which we have taken over the government. We took over the government at the moment when the Czech Republic was indebted practically the fastest from the countries of the European Union, and we have to say that the money it borrows has to be repaid again by somebody and paid back by Czech citizens. The money is expensive because you pay the loan and you still pay interest, and every year it's billions of crowns increased by the government debt service, and it's not easy. [[15.30 hours]] At the same time, of course, this debt, which has been here in the last two years, has led to the third highest inflation in the Czech Republic. And again, what causes inflation? It makes it expensive, but it also causes - and that is essential - the depreciation of the money that citizens have, whether they have it stored or they get it on wages, the money has less value. And that's just something that we don't want in the long run, so we have to act so that we don't increase inflation so that we don't spin the inflation spiral, otherwise we would also act illogically, because we'd keep adding money to people, but at the same time they would have less and less value, and inflation has catastrophic effects, which we don't have to talk about right now. However, we knew that there were groups of social or professional groups to be added in this difficult situation. They were teachers, they were health professionals, for reasons relating to covid or that they were a group of college students who had the lowest average wage compared to other countries and within the whole group of college students. And then they were members of the security forces because we were aware of their importance and the need to increase wages, including because the previous government did not raise the salaries of members for two years in a row. That is why we are also in this difficult situation and, at the time we frozen the salaries of civil servants in the state administration, in this difficult situation, we have increased the rates of the security forces by 700 and 770 crowns, respectively, since 1 January 2020. The increase in salaries of members of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps was accompanied by a 20% increase in the amount of funds for the non-tariff component of salaries and according to the current classification - just a few examples - for example a soldier with the rank of a freelancer has a basic tariff of CZK 27,500, sergeant 37,000, lieutenant over CZK 40,000. For security forces, including police, firefighters, customs or Prison Service, the tariff depends on the time of practice, on the tariff class, thus newly receiving members of the security forces according to their classification from some 20,000 to 62,000 crowns. It is also necessary to recognise the total amount that is earmarked for the salaries of the security forces within the state budget. At this point, the amount is over 50 billion crowns. So let me get this straight. After two years of not joining, our government added to the armed forces, added to them as one of the few professional groups. We believe that this was right, the average increase in the salary rate was CZK 700, and, of course, if the budget allows us to do so and if we do not continue to threaten the fight against inflation, we are ready to increase the salaries of the security forces in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u47	Thank you, Prime Minister, for answering and keeping time. I will now ask the Member if he wants to ask an additional question? I see you do. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u48	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Now I have an additional question. In your programming statement, you include - I quote: "We will support recruitment motivational programmes for the security forces. We will provide social security for new, existing and outgoing security forces." End of quote. The state of the Police of the Czech Republic has failed to fulfil and does not help the recruitment allowance of CZK 150,000, which will receive the incoming police officer after six months of service. For example, a new recruiter of the Municipal Police of the capital city of Prague receives a recruitment allowance of CZK 300,000. My follow-up question is: Is the fulfilment of the number states of the Police of the Czech Republic a priority for you? And will you personally take a stand to improve them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u49	Thank you, Ambassador, for the supplementary question, and I would now ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u50	Yes, that's the second issue, it's not just about salaries, it's about increasing the attractiveness of the profession and getting other members there. Of course, we intend to strengthen the Police of the Czech Republic, we also intend to increase the number of members of the Army of the Czech Republic, these are all the tasks that are ahead of us. Since you are dealing with security issues, you know that it is not always quite easy that financial motivation is of course important, and then there is also a need for certain assumptions that are not always met by everyone, and that is another task for companies to increase some physical and other abilities of the Czech population. As far as the Police of the Czech Republic is concerned, we must consider that we cannot only consider the tariff table salary, but that we must look at the overall income. I have the figure here - the average actual service income of a member of the Police of the Czech Republic was CZK 51 224 per month in 2021, the average actual income of a member of the Fire Rescue Corps was CZK 51 598. Of course, you're right, there are big differences, and I've been saying them here too, with the incoming members, whether the police or the Fire Rescue Corps, it's different. I welcome your initiative and I will certainly look at what can be done with recruitment contributions so that the profession is really attractive to new applicants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u51	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Mr Martin Kukla will speak with the next interview and Mr Oldřich Černý will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u52	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Last time he was here, he was explaining to me what an deštník is. Well, I went to ask these people, and the comments I got from them, I don't think I can even present here because I don't think it's helping people at all. I'll tell you a few specific numbers. Let's look at electricity prices sometime last year, when they were still fixed, so electricity prices were CZK 1,300 per megawatt hour, roughly. If you look at the ČEZ price list today from 1. 7, we see that there's a price of 7 to 8,000 per megawatt hour, that's about five times that. When we look at the gas prices that were a year ago, it was about CZK 750 per megawatt hour. And now? If you look again at the ČEZ price list from 1. 7. without any fixation, so you're worth some 3.5 to 4.5,000 in a megawatt hour. Well, it's nothing. That, of course, increases people's bills. They had a $2,000 bill, and now they're gonna have it five times that. Well, the young families, the middle class, of course, they have housing and they all have mortgages. And when we look at interest rates, let's all remember that they were around 2%, and we're slowly running out of fixations and the Czech National Bank, of course, is raising interest rates. Now, if you're going to close your mortgage, you're going to get to some 6 to 7 percent. Well, let's look at the prices, as you say you're helping people, let's look at the prices of diesel and gasoline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u53	Thank you very much for the interview, and I would now ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala to respond to this interpelation. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u54	Dear Member, thank you for the question. Of course, energy prices are important, and I'm not even avoiding the answer or questioning the seriousness. But let's be precise about the questions. I admit the new price lists are a problem, but let's not say it's a problem for everyone. New price lists are all about new clients. That's how it is, and that's how we have to look at it. Yes, the problem is, but it concerns new clients. When you mentioned it, and you started it, deštník versus precious, and it doesn't help anyone -- well, I don't know, I'm meeting other opinions, but of course, that's possible, maybe someone didn't get a good look at it, and that's why it doesn't seem to help him. So all citizens please take a look at the deštník Against the Delicate and look at what is directly related to them. And there they will find an umbrella for families with children, an umbrella for seniors, an umbrella for housing, an umbrella for fuel, for entrepreneurs and businesses, and there they can look at what we have done for them and what really can help them. And I'm just going to sum up here, when I was talking here in one of the previous interviews that we released almost 100 billion crowns, so I'm just going to remind you: 10 billion per one-off - round up the sums - to support families with children, CZK 47 billion goes to valorizing pensions in January and June, 4.2 billion to reduce excise duty on fuel from June to September, to be exact, 12 billion goes to increasing the tax payer's discount for 2022, which was approved earlier, we were also involved. Up to CZK 7 billion goes to support children's groups, CZK 4 billion to abolish road tax for vehicles up to 12 tonnes, CZK 2 billion to increase the existential and living minimum and CZK 2.5 billion to increase the housing allowance and other funds go into other support programmes. It also needs to be rightly said that we are also trying to create better conditions for citizens so that they can save so that they can have lower energy consumption, which is what many citizens are interested in. That is why we have modified the New Green Savings, we have adjusted the conditions for obtaining the subsidy so as to achieve more citizens, even those who do not have more own funds, which was the previous condition. So we're also helping citizens here to have reduced energy consumption. And of course, if you look at specific measures, you'll see that people who are getting into trouble with energy prices, with their growth, have difficulty paying for housing costs, our measures can really help. When a citizen opens - please let people do it - the Umbrella for housing, he finds that hundreds of thousands of households are newly entitled to the housing allowance, including tenants. So far, over 2.5 billion crowns have been paid on housing contributions according to estimates by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and that is not enough. This shows that people are taking advantage of this contribution. And the amount of the donation isn't entirely small either. When you look at the fact that CZK 697 million was paid for April for 165 000 households, it turns out that the average monthly amount of the contribution in April was approximately CZK 4,200. So please don't tell me it's not important. And most importantly, don't tell those people, because these people are gonna know that amount and they're really helping them. So I call on everyone once again to look at the Umbrella Against the Delicate, let them look at the part that concerns them, let them not be afraid to ask for support from the state. We are in extremely difficult times and we are doing everything we can to help people cope with rising energy and food prices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u55	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask if the Member wants to ask an additional question? I see you do. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u56	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, we have an umbrella at home, and we use it outside when it rains. We don't need ten umbrellas that don't work. Looks to me like you're offering the umbrella to people who are neck-deep in the pond and offering them an umbrella so they don't get wet. Because if we look only at the neighbouring Germany, let's look at today's fuel prices. Germany reduces gasoline by 8 kroner, it is about half as much for diesel. And it was in this particular situation that a few people wrote to me and wrote to me when the price was to be reduced by a crown of fifty in the Czech Republic, so they wrote to me: On Tuesday, they raised the price by a crown of forty to reduce it by fifty cents. That's the practice at our pumping stations. I don't like it here at all, as they always say, yes, it's the government of Andrej Babiš. [[Prime Minister, time!]] When you get to the end, it was Putin or Kukla in Vysočina who lost 2.5 billion crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u57	Thank you, and that was an additional question. At this point, I would ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u58	I'm quite spared with this criticism, Mr. Ambassador. I could be very critical, and I don't. I'm doing a different policy, and I'm trying to tell the citizens what we're doing for them, so don't act like someone's making excuses, I don't do that. Do you ever listen to Mr. Babiš's interpellation from last term and see how different these interpelations are. But I'll leave it to the people to settle it, but they'll do it. You're laughing here, deštník, but don't make fun of it! People need help here. Everyone doesn't do as well as you do. People need help and people appreciate that the government is trying and that the government is also fighting energy prices. So if you're telling me about the prices in Germany, let's compare the prices of petrol and diesel in Germany and the Czech Republic to the turn of May and June, where we can compare them. Czech Republic, price of petrol 1,81 euro, Germany 2,13 euro. The price of diesel 1,87 euro, in Germany 2,04 euro. I wouldn't have mentioned it here if you hadn't come up with an example of Germany, but I think people know it well, because who goes to the surrounding countries knows how much they pay. And I would also remind you that we're not sitting here with our hands down watching fuel prices rise. We've taken a lot of steps. We canceled the incorporation of the biofuels into fuel, reduced the excise tax on diesel and petrol by 1.50 crowns per litre from 1 June to 30 September, and I note, Mr Member, that we have reduced the excise duty on diesel to the lowest possible limit permitted by the European Union. So we do enough for citizens, yes, all these measures, we would like to do even more, but those prices are determined in world markets, which the Czech Republic cannot influence, but we influence everything that is in our power to keep the price down. [[Prime Minister, time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u59	The Prime Minister and the Mr Interpelling Member crossed the line, so both of them. Mr Oldřich Černý will now speak with further intervention and prepare Mrs Karla Maříková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. vážený Minister, at the beginning of May, a report has already been published that the owner of a major energy group, Pavel Tykač, has offered to the government to sell it a cheaper current from its coal power plants. The state could thus obtain several terawatt hours of electricity at the price at which it sold before the war in Ukraine. According to information from many media that has published this information, Mr Tykač's company offers specifically up to 3 terawatt hours of electricity per year, which corresponds to annual consumption of more than a million households. This is quite significant quantity, and it would help Czech households very much in this difficult time. The offer of the contract was mentioned in the media for two to three years. This would be the sale of electricity directly, i.e. off the stock market, which would mean how I read it would be electricity without emission allowances. On this topic the Minister of Finance Stanjura also commented on the article on the website of the Ministry of Finance on May 10th, but it has been more than three weeks. [[15.50 hours]] I wonder, then, at what stage are these negotiations on the purchase of cheaper electricity and when is it expected that an agreement will take place? At the same time, I would like to know how the government specifically plans to use this cheaper electricity, to whom it will sell, who will reach it, and how? There is no time to waste, and such an offer is not refused. I am therefore in favour of all the citizens who write to us daily, calling on the government to discuss this offer as quickly as possible and to accept it as soon as possible. This would be a great help to Czech households, which is currently the most discussed issue in the family budgets of our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for presenting your intervention, and I will now ask the Prime Minister for an answer to this interpelation. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u62	Dear Member, I will disappoint you in this case. I will not comment on the particular offer, or its advantages, or its disadvantages, and I will not do this for good reasons, because any statements made by the Prime Minister in this area could be price-setting, could have a serious impact - simply nothing can be commented on during the negotiations. I would just generally say - and I am not commenting on this particular issue - but generally I would say that not all the recipes we read about in the media, and not all the offers that look good at first sight, are really advantageous for our citizens and would mean a significantly cheaper price for energy. Again, what I said here in one of the previous interpellings. The idea that the government will intervene in energy prices in some simple way, it will ceiling them, it will determine wholesale price, we will stop moving on the stock market, it is a very tempting idea, but definitely naive, because it does not correspond to how energy trades, in what time span energy is purchased and sold, and actually such intervention is not even legally possible and is often not possible even practically. Of course, what the government is considering - and I have already informed here - what we are preparing is an austerity tariff, which is a significant help with energy that would affect virtually everyone, where, with the financial contribution of the state, customers will pay a lower price for energy supply up to a certain amount, which will reduce their energy costs on the one hand, and, on the other, it will lead them to some savings. This measure by the state is, of course, significantly costly, but we are considering it because we are aware of a sharp rise in prices that the Czech government cannot influence, and we are looking for a way to help Czech citizens, citizens and companies to cope with this situation. At the same time, long-term and medium-term steps are needed to ensure that Czech citizens have enough energy for the future, namely energy at affordable prices. I've mentioned some of these steps. Let me remind you that we are currently trying - and I thank the Chamber of Deputies - to create better legislative conditions for this - so that we can have enough gas for the next winter and the winter that will come afterwards. We do this by filling the reservoirs so that before winter we have filling the gas reservoir at 80 per cent. This legislative measure will help us implement this objective. At this point, the reservoirs are filled with more than 50 per cent and continue to be filled. This is not a matter that would not be linked to energy prices, because if what happened to some countries had already happened to us, that gas supplies from Russia had been cut off by day, so if we had not taken these measures, it would have an absolutely fundamental impact not only on prices for households and companies, but it would also have a fundamental impact on enough energy, and that is something that we really cannot afford. That's why - and you see, I didn't mention that in the help we're doing - the government didn't take the usual step, and the fact that we bought a supply of gas for CZK 8.5 billion so that we could have some kind of iron reserve in case it really came to the worst. So we are doing these steps, we are doing short-term steps that will help people now, and we are doing medium- and long-term steps that will increase the energy security of the Czech Republic and ensure enough affordable energy for people and companies in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u63	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time and for answering. I'll ask the Member... he wants to ask an additional question. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u64	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I have not received a specific answer, Prime Minister, but I hope that in the current situation where you are permanently maintaining an emergency situation, there would certainly be some possibility for these negotiations. However, I would ask you what I was not enough about the government's plan in relation to the rising price of electricity and its impact on Czech entrepreneurs. Representatives of businessmen a few weeks ago in a joint letter as a government called on you to put energy prices on the table. Since many other countries of the European Union have introduced some form of regulation and aid to entrepreneurs, Czech entrepreneurs are very seriously concerned about losing their competitiveness. In the Umbrella versus the precious you mention, there is nothing meaningful in the business and business section that really helps yet. Thank you for your answer to these Czech entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u65	Thank you for the supplementary question and I will ask the Prime Minister's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u66	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, thank you for the additional question. I've talked a lot about helping families, households, private customers. Of course, helping companies is important too, we don't ignore it. I've already talked here about the Guarantee programme and some other things that can help entrepreneurs. I'm in regular contact with businessmen and their representatives. Just this morning, for example, I spoke with President Jaroslav Hanák of the Union of Industry, and we are regularly in those contacts, and we know what entrepreneurs require, and we are also preparing it. I'm just gonna show you some things. The Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Environment prepares compensation for indirect emission allowances costs to help larger companies with energy-intensive operations. The Czech Republic has received - and this is also the result of some activity - the notification of these programmes to the European Commission and, in total, companies could collect up to CZK 800 million within these compensations from the state. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is also preparing support for companies within the so-called temporary crisis framework for measures, state aid to support the economy after Russia's aggression against Ukraine, but we are also preparing other things for which entrepreneurs are calling for, which is a need to accelerate the authorisation processes for the installation of renewable resources, to launch calls that support the development of renewable resources and energy efficiency, subsidies are prepared in the values of tens of billions of crowns. Those are the concrete steps we're working on. We also work on them in cooperation with business representatives, and I thank business associations for this good cooperation and their suggestions. [[Prime Minister, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Karla Maříková will perform with the next interview. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u68	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, electricity and gas prices are rising, ČEZ announced a rapid price increase, while Britain introduces a 25% exceptional tax on oil and gas companies and then uses these funds to help the poorest families, France, in turn, has ordered the sale of some of the energy produced in its own power plants directly to citizens. You yourself have mentioned here that the government can use the dividends of ČEZ, and I ask why it will not use these funds and use them to help citizens who are facing an existential crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u69	Thank you for your time, and I would now ask the Prime Minister for his reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u70	That was probably the last question to ask me, given the time, and I have to say, a lot of these questions today, the vast majority, were about energy and energy prices, I think it's logical and it's definitely a big issue. It is a good thing that we have had the opportunity to discuss this here and I have had the opportunity to explain the measures and actions that our government is doing, and I thank those who intercede for that. Madam, your question concerning the dividends of ČEZ is also important. I have already explained here the ownership structure of ČEZ, the role of ČEZ in the Czech energy market, and I would just like to say to your question that you are asking why we will not use the dividends of ČEZ, but of course we will use them as we use them, and we are using them precisely to help Czech citizens so that we can take all the measures that I have mentioned here, and so that we can send money from ČEZ, from its profits and from the dividends that we have as a majority shareholder, so that we can send it back to Czech citizens. But we need to realize how it is. We're going to be working with the dividends that are 2021. At this year's proper general meeting, the board will propose to shareholders a dividend of CZK 44 per share, i.e. the shareholders will receive CZK 23 billion, and from that the state will go CZK 16.6 billion, with which, and this is important, it is already counted in the draft state budget for this year, so this money is the income of the state budget and of course we are using it to help citizens. So for next year, this year, and I hope that this will happen, higher income and higher dividends are expected, perhaps even the largest dividend in the history of the Czech Republic, the state could get significantly more funds, and again we assume that the entire profit, everything the state will get, so we will invest again where? To support citizens, to help them with rising energy prices, to compensate for these prices. Please note that the cost of the state budget thanks to the aid, which is described and explained in the Umbrella Against the Delicate, that the cost of the state is enormous. I'm talking about 100 billion crowns. The money has to be taken somewhere, it does not grow on trees, and it is the funds we receive from the dividends of ČEZ that we use to help citizens. Thanks to this dividend, we have the funds to help families, we have the funds to expand the pool of people who are entitled to social benefits, we have to have the funds to triple the value of pensions this year. That's a huge billion-dollar cost. All this stuff we're sending to the citizens has to be taken somewhere. And on top of that - it's not important, but it's a significant contribution to the mosaic, we're making revenue from the state budget - it also serves the dividends. So I want to disprove what happens sometimes. They're not hundreds of billion-dollar profits. This year the state can expect 16.6 billion crowns. This is the revenue of the state budget, which is expected and will be used to support citizens. This year, when the dividends - and can be expected given what is happening in the energy market - will be higher, of course we will be happy. They could also exceed CZK 25 billion and then we will use these dividends again in accordance with the rules again to support Czech citizens. That's how it is, and I can assure everyone that the money is not going anywhere, but the share that the state has is being used to compensate energy prices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u71	Thank you, Prime Minister. I wish you all a good afternoon and there is still a claim to the last supplementary question that is obviously of interest. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Prime Minister, how are you going to help the companies? Minister Síkela has been told that compensation for companies is not the basis of government policy. I don't know if you realize that if companies don't work, they're gonna start releasing people, so the crisis is gonna get worse. And employers themselves warn that a large number of companies are in danger of crashing due to expensive energy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u73	Thank you and will follow the final reaction of this block by interpelling. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u74	But of course, it is necessary for companies to have energy that is affordable, but it is also important that companies have energy at all. And our government is taking a number of steps to ensure enough gas not only for Czech households but also for Czech companies to ensure enough oil and oil products, such as oil, not only for citizens but also for Czech companies. Some of the steps we are taking on the international scene have been reminded here and I have also reminded here the steps we are taking in the short term, because what I am talking about here are medium- and long-term steps, or which will have a medium and long-term impact, but I have also reminded here the steps we are taking in the short term for entrepreneurs. I was talking about how we're fighting rising fuel prices, and abolishing road taxes for vehicles up to 12 tons is definitely something that helps entrepreneurs, and they're telling us themselves. Consumer tax, I mentioned the Programme Guarantee for SMEs 2015 to 2023 and the extension of the Guarantee Forced Change of Energy Supplier. This is also a program that is directly targeted at small and medium-sized companies. Then I was talking here about preparing an energy package to help companies that have demanding energy operations to compensate for indirect emission allowances costs. I was talking about the preparation of a temporary crisis framework for State aid measures to support the economy and other and other things that we do specifically for entrepreneurs and businesses, because we are aware that energy prices are falling on them in a dizzy way, and that we need to enable them to survive this difficult situation and to cope with it, because it is in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u75	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, and so the time has passed for a block of oral intercessions to the Prime Minister and they will follow the oral interpelations to other members of the government. In the meantime, I will add an apology, namely apologizing to Mrs Romana Fischerová for working reasons today between 5:30 and 21:00, which I will use to remind you that, however, it is announced that we will end today at 18:00. And now I am calling on Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská to present her intervention to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Petr Gazdík, and thus to launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u76	Thank you. Madam President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. My interpelation, as has been said, is directed at the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports and concerns the maths for 2024, which he mentioned in an interview on the web News. cz. 'Cause he's got some stuff in there, so I'm wondering what those graduations are gonna look like. High school students and grammar schools have been used to some form of math for some time now, they have been prepared for four years and do not count on any major changes. For 2021, because of the conavir situation, tests could only be passed from didactic tests. [[16.10 hours]] This year, although students have been influenced by distance teaching, graduations are already running normally, and I would like to ask, and I think students will also be interested in how big changes for 2024 are planned and what form of maths will actually be in that year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u77	Thank you for your time, and now, please, the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Madam President, for being concerned about high school students. I appreciate it, and I am happy for it, and I want to assure her that it will also be her who will decide what will be in the future, what will be graduation, because, of course, there must be a change in the relevant law, which will also be approved by this House. The fact that current graduations, which have changed since their birth - state graduations - have actually changed constantly, you yourself have reminded some changes in recent years as well as in the wake of the corona crisis, does not really benefit stability, and I announced at the beginning of my term when I presented my proposal to the Think tank Education 21 of Charles University that I would like to have a debate this year on the form of state graduation. There's been years of discussion about whether a compulsory math degree is, not whether the essay is supposed to look one way or the other. And I would like to come up with some definitive version that will be valid for the next ten years, and I can assure you that we will definitely not fall for students: You are already graduating next year in a new performance. Definitely not. I'll be very happy if your political party comes up with a proposal as to what you think a graduation exam is supposed to look like. I called on the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry and Transport to do this because, for example, in the proposal of the Think Tank Education 21 of Charles University, there is the possibility of a so-called professional graduation. At this point, as a minister, I do not know, and I would like to know from these professional organisations whether a professional graduation has any benefit for them as an employer, what is the difference between a teaching certificate and a professional graduation. I can say for myself that politically, my political party, or the mayor and independent movement, presented their graduation proposal two years ago. You can find them at www.moderiskolstvi.cz. We're counting on graduation as some kind of high school minimum that you can do repeatedly. You would probably have two attempts during your studies, a third and another attempt would have been charged by that person or student, and if you made three parts, that is, a social science basis, a natural base and a foreign language, this high school minimum, and you have three and a half years of high school studies, you have the opportunity to come to the profiling part of your graduation, which will, of course, be different at grammar school and another will be at a secondary vocational school. Personally, I would have liked to have a part in the fields of study, as there is a practical exam in the fields of study, so that in the fields of study there is some work on a community-friendly topic that the student chooses and defends before the graduation committee. I'd leave the rest in schools and how they and their particular field set up a professional graduation. We're going to have a broad discussion now. I myself have - in the coming months we want to organize - a round table which I believe, colleagues, will be involved across the political spectrum and we will discuss this issue. My maximum effort is the stability of graduation in the coming years, because it's not about one government, it's about one minister. It is precisely what the Member asked to avoid the fear of students that it is different every year. So please and I call for this, let's politically agree on what graduations are supposed to look like in the next ten years. The possibilities aren't enough to have a head, a heel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u79	Thank you and I see, Madame, that there is an interest in the supplementary issue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u80	The question I gave you has just been brought to me directly by the high school students, and they would like to be involved in these discussions, even if the graduation is not yet involved, in high school students would like to be quite involved in these discussions. So whether or not it's an option. And otherwise, you answered my question, what I wanted to ask is that it's actually going to be for the new students. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u81	Thank you, too, and please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u82	I want to make sure that the student organization is involved. We graduation - because graduation is quite crucial, from a legislative point of view any changes in graduation mean amendments to 275 laws in which graduation is mentioned, and we really are on those round tables, it will not only be political discussions, but we will also have an effort to have a professional discussion. I regularly meet with various associations from the Association of Kindergarten Directors to the Rectors' Conference, from which I come here for interpelation, and all these organizations, including the Union of High School Students, will all be able to comment. I'm not saying that we're gonna give in to everyone, because they're often gonna be different. Someone will promote - if we are to give graduation for the school and for the most prestigious gymnasium, we basically have two options. Either we choose two levels of graduation, or we choose some kind of high school minimum. I don't know about any other option. I'd be happy to find out from him if any of you know of any other option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u83	Thank you, too. And now I will pass the word on to another interpelling, namely Mrs Berenica Peštová, who was drawn in second place. Please, Madam, give an oral interview to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. After you, Mr. Igor Hendrych will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u84	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the excise duty on diesel and petrol is reduced by a fantastic crown of fifty per litre from the beginning of June to the end of September. When defending you in the Senate, you told the senators that, in the case of diesel, the reduction to the minimum limit laid down in the European Union could be permanent. This four-month tax reduction, which not only I, but also the vast majority of the population consider inadequate, is a government response to an increase in fuel prices, which, according to analysts, caused mainly inflationary pressures and invasions of Russian troops on Ukraine. In Germany, prices moved down twice yesterday morning. After a long time, prices didn't start with two on the stands there. This means that some petrol stations in Germany had cheaper fuel than many pumps in the Czech Republic. European consumers are likely to have to and must prepare for further price growth. The reason for this is the planned European ban on imports of Russian oil and the gradual release of strict anti-pandemic measures in China. Economists expect a noticeable increase in global oil demand, which will be reflected in fuel prices in the context of European restrictions on Russia. Yesterday, the price of Brent's oil broke through a couple of weeks' price high. And my two questions. First: How do we control the margins of fuel dealers so that, as you said, we can be sure that the reduction in excise duty will fully reflect on the total prices? And second, the crown of fifty is probably not the right cure. I wonder what else you have in store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u85	Thank you for your time, and now the Minister of Finance has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u86	Thank you for the floor. Aside from the ironic tone, I won't be as ironic as I might be. For the honourable Member, through you, Madam Vice-President. The Němec are at the same minimum limit for diesel as the Czech Republic, but by 31 May they had higher taxation than the Czech Republic. At this point, the same taxation is in Germany and the Czech Republic. And since the initial situation was higher taxation, logically the discount is higher. In particular, this means that in Germany the price of diesel 11.90 until 21 May was equivalent in Czech crowns, and now it is 8.40, it is the European minimum, with us it was 9.90, it is also 8.40. So it's perfectly logical when someone goes, they quickly raise the limit to the minimum, so the drop is higher. This means, at this point not only in Germany, Poland, we are at the same minimum value in the Czech Republic. And you know as well as I do that it's a harmonised value, so we can't go below or Germany isn't below. [[16.20 hours]] The margins take place where they can, which means, in addition to about 90 percent of the petrol station market, about 90 percent of the three thousand public service stations are also taking place from 1 May to all distributors, they are much less. If I take the most important ones, it's less than ten. Then, of course, they're the smallest ones, but it's easier. The total indicative margin wholesale, retail, that means both distributors and petrol stations, is lower than CZK 5, is lower than in Germany or Poland compared, and we will check it precisely to see clearly that the price consists of the price that is on the world exchange in Rotterdam. Then there's the price of the refinery. However, this is difficult to control, such as the prices of the Slovnaft refinery, which lies in Bratislava. But then we already control the margin of distributors, the margin of service stations and the entire tax burden, that is, the correct reduction of the crown of 80, because the crown of fifty is excise duty and VAT is still calculated on excise duty. And everyone knows that we will consistently insist that this is fully reflected in end prices. It was at most gas stations yesterday. Not all of them, they argue, and the argument is actually relevant, that this is true when it is released from customs warehouses, that the petrol or diesel was released before 21 May. But for example, the state company ČEPRO, although it has the same approach today, of course it had already been released and purchased before 1 June, so to yesterday it reduced the prices of petrol and diesel by almost 2 crowns, which means more than the crown of 80, which corresponds to VAT. We will continue these checks until the end of September, that is, all the time the House and the Senate have approved that excise duty will be lower.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u87	Thank you, Minister, and I see an interest in the supplementary question, is that correct? Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u88	So, of course, it's quite clear to me that you're not able to influence anything, but if you've noted correctly, of course, I mentioned here that the price of Brent oil has actually broken down a few weeks' price maximum, so in its essence, you, even if you try to make some arrangements here, that price will still go up, so nothing will change anyway. And if you noticed - I was obviously watching, I feel like it was about two days ago when I came from the Chamber of Deputies, so I turned on the ČT24 and there was Mr Kovanda, who clearly said that we had to go up because of the sanctions that they are preparing - and we know about them - of course we have to prepare for the price of fuel. So, in your nature, the measures you're taking here may be godly, but in any case, they'll be inefficient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u89	Thank you, Madame, and the Minister will take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u90	The excise tax is a fixed amount, not a percentage, which means the crown of 80 will be saved, whether the base is 20, 30 or 40 crowns, we understand each other. That means, if we gave nothing, at rising oil prices, which, of course, cannot be ruled out with regard to the embargo, I agree with you, the price would be 80 higher. I don't consider this an inefficient measure, because if we had agreed that it was inefficient, we would have done nothing, and it would have been a crown of 80 more. That is, of course, possible. We took a different path, but I feel that's why the entire House voted. Now I don't mean everyone present, but I think most of the clubs supported this proposal, and it was both in the House and in the Senate. All I'm saying to Germany is that there's a three-month limit, four months at our place. And what I was saying to the carriers is that we will evaluate and that it is possible for diesel to be a permanent measure - not because of high prices, but because of the competitiveness of our carriers, that if the excise tax is harmonised and there is a minimum value in the surrounding states, then the competitive disadvantage of our carriers would be higher than in the surrounding states, because let's say openly, the direct competitors of our carriers are not transport from Spain or Portugal, but from neighbouring countries. That is why we are thinking about it and it is possible that the measure will eventually become permanent if the House and the Senate approve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u91	Thank you. And with this, we can proceed to another interview by Mr Igor Hendrych, and Mrs Margita Balaštíková can prepare herself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u92	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an interview with Minister Vít Rakušan, who is probably not here today, so I assume that I will receive a written reply, on the subject of possible substitution of municipal police with private security services in order to ensure public order. I got information from the College of Directors of the City Police of statutory cities and the capital of Prague that a working group has established itself at the Ministry of the Interior, which is working intensively on the law on the security activities of businessmen, and within this law should be an established paragraph, which should basically allow municipalities or associations of municipalities to conclude coordination agreements with security agencies - if I say so in layman terms, if they do not have city police, or if they decide that the municipal police are too expensive for them or the municipal police. At this point, I would like some interim information on the state of this legislative process. I personally have a number of reservations about this, which - in the event that this press eventually passes through the legislative process, because basically ensuring public order by private entities I consider to be a rather serious negative social phenomenon - but I will wait for the result. I'm interested in background information right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u93	Thank you very much for keeping the time, Mr Member, and indeed, the Minister is duly excused, you will be given an answer in writing within 30 days. I will add an apology, please wait, namely Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today between 16.15 and 21.00 for family reasons. Again, we finish today at 6:00 p.m. And please, Madame, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u94	So hello, ladies and gentlemen. vážený absent minister, both the unions and the management of the company have responded positively to the change of the owner of the Kunov airline Aircraft Industries. However, around a thousand employees learned about the change at the company meeting. The traditional manufacturer of civil aircraft passed into the Czech hands after fourteen years. The war in Ukraine was dragging the kunovic company down because of the Russian owner. The production of aircraft has so far been owned by Ostov, which is associated with the name of Russian oligarchy Iskander Machmudov. Air production is crucial for our Hungarian region. In addition to the fact that many local companies are linked to the production of Aircraft Industries, thousands of other people are employed by other airlines that are related to this company. It is directly in Kunovice, for example, the companies 5M and Evektor. I would like to ask if you are planning a system solution for companies in a similar crisis situation due to anti-Russian sanctions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u95	Thank you for your intervention, Madame. Once again, the Minister is duly excused, you will receive a reply in writing. And now we approach Mr Lubomír Brož's interpellation and Mr Karel Rais will follow. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u96	Thank you. Dear Minister Jurečka, over 4 000 people have already signed a call for the end of the non-discriminatory cooperation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with the Organization of the Movement for Life. Your ministry spokesperson has confirmed in his statement that the Ministry is cooperating with the movement and has a positive view of the efforts that the movement is making. Since then, however, you have not commented that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has terminated its cooperation with this movement. News in the media is very, very different in this. [[16.30 hours]] The movement for life by its activities seeks to ban the right to abortion. Radim Ucháč, chairman of the movement, even says that the ban on abortion is too few. He says: "We don't just want to ban abortion, we want to change culture in our country. " I am concerned about how this change in culture is imagined by the Movement for Life. The movement for life in the past has, among other things, promoted the right to access post-coital contraception to the victims of rape by Russian soldiers in the war in Ukraine. The spokesperson of the movement said that women in Ukraine should prefer to defend themselves against rape and that after birth the rape victim should demand maintenance from the perpetrator. By its activities, the Movement for Life threatens the lives and health of women in the Czech Republic as well. For example, it has recently advised women who are facing life-threatening ectopic pregnancy not to undergo life-saving surgery and wait to see if the embryo descends into the uterus, which is nonsense and a life-threatening approach. The movement is very transparent and it is unclear what the sources of its financing are. Among other things, it is known that the movement participates in the World Congress of Family conferences sponsored by Kremlin's co-workers, and they also represent Russia at the conferences. The activities of the movement do not in any way reflect social perception in the Czech Republic, because according to surveys, women's freedom of choice to access abortion is supported by almost 70 percent of the public. Dear Minister, have you ceased your cooperation with the Life Movement, or when do you intend to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u97	Thank you, you will receive your reply in writing again. Now, I beg you to interpel Mr Karel Rais to Minister Petr Gazdík and to prepare Mrs Jana Berkovcová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u98	Have a good day. Dear absent minister, the cabinet recently discussed 3% of teacher pay growth with representatives of schools and trade unions. This promise was made by the government in its government statement. Despite the promises made by the Minister and some of the members of the government that they will not touch the salaries of teachers, there has only been an increase of 2 per cent, only for the teaching staff of regional education. I remind you that today's inflation is around 14 percent, and as the politicians before us have always said, resources are because inflation has brought about 70 billion crowns. So the first question: When and how will you deal with the backward pay of school workers at a time of extremely high inflation? The second question is devoted to increasing the salaries of non-teaching workers, which you have completely forgotten in the programming declaration. Perhaps this is why the school unions also ask for an increase of at least 10 percent in the salaries of teachers, which would be CZK 850 million, and it is in a way negligible money against the inflation increase of CZK 70 billion. So the second specific question: When will the real addition of non-teaching workers of regional education take place by at least 10 per cent? I just remind you that the earnings of non-teaching workers in education, such as janitors, cleaners and nanny, are about CZK 26,000 a month. According to the Czech Statistical Office last year, the average wage was CZK 37,000 a month and the average salary of teachers was CZK 47,000. I'm sorry I said the Minister was absent. I see he made it, so maybe I can get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u99	Thank you. We're all glad the Minister made it, he can breathe out and take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u100	Good afternoon. The minister broke the record at 100. Dear Member, first of all, you know very well that we have, unfortunately, inherited the budget, when the Czech Republic has the fastest growth in public debt from all the countries of the European Union. I would very much like us to be able to increase the salary of both teachers and non-teachers at 130 percent and even more, but unfortunately, our government did not come into existence until December 17th, and the state we inherited was not entirely rosy, despite the fact that some expenditures that had already been undermandatory expenditure, such as raising pensions, were not included in the state budget, and therefore the money was not much. You are right, and in this I agree with you that in the case of non-teaching workers, especially now after the second increase in pensions, some of them are in a state where the net wage of a non-teaching worker, whether she is a cook, a janitor or a cleaning woman, may be lower than the average pension. Many directors try to address this by moving funds from teaching staff. I did so because the Ministry of Education is proposing a total of CZK 1.7 billion to increase the state budget for the wages of non-teaching workers this year. Whether I will be successful, whether the government will decide or not, I do not know at the moment. As for the educators, you voted in favour of the draft law on teaching workers, which finally returned from the Senate and in which 130 per cent of the salaries of teaching workers were guaranteed. Unfortunately, it was your YES movement, along with other parties that did not allow its approval before the end of the parliamentary term, that is why this law fell under the table. The salaries of pedagogical workers are a priority for our government, which is why we are presenting the law on pedagogical workers again. And once again, as you can find in eKLEP, it explicitly states that 130 percent of the average wage is calculated in place of one pedagogical worker. You are also asking that real salaries have been increased by only 2 %, but the second number, which is important to me as Minister of Education, is 20 percent, and that is that our government and the Ministry of Education will try to make each director have 20 percent of the amount of salary resources available to him, so he can make a very difference, and what you say by 2 or 3 percent, are just the tabular salaries that we talked about, but we're also counting on the over-the-counter components in wages, and if - and it goes well this year too - the director has 20 percent of the over-the-tarif components, he can actually differentiate and if someone doesn't do his job as a teacher, and someone else can get about 40 percent of the above-tarif components, who is doing his job well, and that's already quite a strong motivation for me. You asked about oniv at the end. It really showed up at the beginning of this year, and unfortunately it is also because the first three days of sickness began to be reimbursed and in the first quarter of this year we faced again another wave of covid pandemic, so quite often it happened that educators were sick or in quarantine, so really many schools are pumping very above average so-called ONIVY - and I will tell you the rest next time. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u101	I think the follow-up question will give you some space, I see there's an interest in her. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u102	I would ask you with permission as a member of the government rather than as a minister, because when a government statement was discussed here, I was one of those who criticized the lack of precision. There was only one figure, and that was the 3% increase in salaries for school workers. And now it's actually clear that it was only 2 per cent, so the question is, if the government knew what the real situation was, what kind of misrepresentation did you get it in, why did you write data that we know isn't fulfilled in a quarter of a year?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u103	Okay. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u104	I'm sorry. I think it's some kind of misunderstanding because the government's programming statement was only submitted by the government after we approved the table of teaching staff we approved last December. The numbers that are crucial to me and which are in the government's programming statement are three. I've already named two of them here. The first number is 130 per cent of the average wage per teacher. We still have to add what the average wage is. I take average wage on a classic budget cycle. We are based on a forecast by the Ministry of Finance, which is made four times a year, so in the June forecast it is the average wage number and it will take 130 per cent per teacher. The state budget will be approved in a process that, say, lasts from July or from June until approved by the Chamber of Deputies, mostly sometime in December. So let's not take the December number or the September number, we'll actually take the June number. The second number, which is crucial to me, is 20 per cent on the excess folders so that we can motivate them. The third issue to which the government statement refers is the number 5.2 percent of GDP per education, to which we would like to approach. These are my numbers, these are my specific targets in numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u105	Thank you, Minister. We will proceed to another interview by Mrs Jana Berkovcová. I will say straight away that Mr Richard Brabec is withdrawing, and then Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will follow. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u106	Thank you. Dear Minister Kupka, allow me to raise a question to you regarding the construction of the I/33 road - bypassing Jaroměř, which follows the section of the D11 motorway near Heřmanice and should take the transit transport to the Polish border of Náchod - Kudowa Zdrój after its completion. This construction is very important with regard to the health and safety of the inhabitants of Jaroměra and the affected municipalities Čáslavka, Dolany and Svinišťany, which are burdened by the enormous operation of international transport on the original road I/33, regardless of other municipalities Heřmanice, Běluň and Krabčice including certain parts of Jaroměra, where drivers found new alternative ways to get from the end of the D11 motorway to the existing road I/33. Dear Minister, how is it possible, when it is known from publicly available sources that the building already has a building permit, the implementation was won by Metrostav Infrastructure, the weather wishes, but there is no sign of any construction activity anywhere? Are there any reasons why nothing happens at the site? If so, what are the steps and specific deadlines to address them? The residents ask who will repair and replace the damage suffered on the third-class roads and the local roads, which by not bypassing finished, are already in a detachable state caused by excessive transport. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u107	Thank you, too. The Minister is duly excused and you will receive a reply within 30 days. Mrs Jana Hanzlíková's interpellation follows, and then Mr Patrik Nacher can prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, my dear absent minister, there is certainly no need to recall the high need for social services, which sometimes provide vital services to the most vulnerable groups in the population. At present, however, social service providers are experiencing enormous uncertainty about their funding for 2022. In the last week, a table of subsidies to the MPSV for the grant title to social service providers with an over-regional or national scope for 2022 was published. Most deliveries are reduced by about 25 per cent compared to 2021, and this happens at a time when social services solve large problems with high fuel prices, energy and many other commodities. Such humiliated subsidies would be practically liquidation for some providers in this difficult situation. The National Council of Persons with Disabilities also considers the current situation to be very dramatic and points out that if social services are not financed, not only to last year's level, the collapse of a part of the system may also threaten. Therefore, I would like to hear or receive a written reply from the Minister on what plans he has in the field of social services financing in 2022, and whether, in view of the situation with rising energy and fuel prices, funding for social services will be increased. Thank you for any written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u109	Thank you for your interpellation. The answer will certainly not be possible, but certainly certain. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Radek Koten will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u110	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, for the third time, I have finally gotten to the microphone on the subject of mass lawsuits. The Minister apologized for the first time, and I didn't want to leave it for a written answer, so I also apologized. I downloaded it the second time, and I changed the order, so I downloaded the interview. It's the third time today, and the minister - or his secretariat - called me today that he wouldn't be here right now. So I'm just not gonna change it anymore, so I'm gonna demand a written response. I find it a little sad for the third time, especially after yesterday's success with a gracious summer, but what can be done. In my opinion, the Institute of Mass Procedure and Mass Supplies is an essential matter in the field of consumer protection, and this government has committed itself to heeding and adopting such standards - I remind you, perhaps there will be an insolvency amendment - which will improve the position of consumers. Here in the House, there was a government motion concerning mass action, and it has been amended throughout the time as it was created, so as to prevent bullying, which is the concern of some subjects and politicians. Even so, the new government has withdrawn the proposal - the amendment. My question is simple: When will the government of the Czech Republic come here with the law on mass proceedings, or with the institute of mass lawsuits, at what time, in what form? Because if you don't, I'm prepared to put it here as a parliamentary motion, the previous version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u111	Thank you for keeping time. I state, yes, the Minister is duly excused for reasons of work, and at the same time, of course, you will receive a written reply. I also add that the apology of Minister Stanjura, Minister of Finance, has just arrived, namely from 16.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. I am now giving the floor to Mr Radek Koten with his intervention, Mrs Taťána Malá will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, I have a few questions about the Minister. People write to me - not only to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and to other state institutions - in the sense that Ukrainian flags are basically everywhere on state institutions, however, the Czech flag is often missing. One of the questions would be whether it is the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Ukraine or whether it is still the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, I would like to ask - because it was also said directly in the media - that perhaps the government is considering that ČEZ should be parted in some way. So I don't know if there's a profit part and a nonprofit part, or what does the government mean? Well, that would be my second question. [[16.50 hours]] Then I wanted to ask about the purchase of magazines from RWE, which are now for sale, because I was looking at the energy concept of Hungary, which was published sometime in 2012, and I think that in many ways this government could learn and could do a lot like the Hungarian government, because they do not have this energy problem there. They don't even have a fuel problem, and I don't think they're gonna have any problems there for a while. So this is one of the other questions, whether we take a positive example from the country where it works, or whether we continue to climb the noose of Brussels and continue to make excuses for Brussels that we cannot and so on. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u113	Thank you for your interpellation. The Minister is excused for medical reasons and you will receive an answer in writing. We are now going to interpel Mrs Taťána Malá to the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u114	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues, I would like to ask you, Minister, and ask you a question about the organisation of graduation exams and entrance exams for universities in the following years. The point is that this year's graduation exams and entrance exams for universities are actually ongoing during the dates of April and May, and a number of students and parents complain that they are not able to prepare enough for the entrance exams for universities, because it is very common that after passing some part of the graduation exam, the next day follows the exam for university. So I'd like to ask if you're preparing some sort of coordination for these trials over the years to come, or how the Ministry will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u115	Thank you and now the answer from the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u116	Madam President, Madam President, although I am quite surprised that you did not see this problem until after eight years of the government in which it was YES. Nevertheless, I will be happy to meet you and try to solve the problem. The Ministry sets the dates for the conduct of Didactic tests of the joint part of the graduation exam in the spring period each year and in good time. It was established for this year by Decree No. 177/2009 Coll., on the closer conditions of graduation in secondary schools, this period, on the range between 2 and 15 May. The decree is always issued by 15 January of the year in question, which is why the Ministry of Education is trying to align the entrance exams at universities and the dates of the graduation exams. The principal of the school sets specific dates for the profiling part of the exam. In addition to this range, the Ministry does not affect the tests in any way. The head of the school has the power to set a time schedule for oral examinations, for example, within a given probationary period of the class, so that the day on which the pupil takes entrance exams at the university does not have to perform the profiling exams, which is the school's helpful attitude towards her pupil. This long-term practice is not a novelty for universities, and ideally, the dates of their entrance exams should be adapted to the range of graduation dates that are already published in January. However, determining specific dates for entrance exams is in the sense of universities. It's a shame I didn't know about the question because I came here from the Rectors' Conference. I would inform them immediately about this problem, and I promise you that I will try to address the issue, even if the possibilities of both the decrees and the Ministry of Education are limited in this respect by law. But I will appeal to the Rectors and their goodwill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u117	Thank you and we can proceed to another interview, namely Mr Vladimír Zlínský, on behalf of Minister Helena Langšádlová. Mrs Pošarová will be ready in the meantime. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u118	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I have two questions for you. Could you inform us about or have occurred with us, or is there a collection of biological material in order to obtain information about the genetic composition of our population, whether with its consent or without the consent of our citizens? Second question: was research conducted at our scientific sites or research conducted with or without the support of foreign capital when they are modified and newly synthesized by methods of genetic engineering and synthetic biology dangerous or potentially dangerous human or zoonotic pathogens, i.e. viruses, bacteria or fungi, and whether there is research that could be used to develop genetic bioweapons and to protect against their action and the development of synthetic organisms for other purposes, but which could be potentially dangerous to human health or biosphere planet Earth? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and now the Minister will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u120	Thank you for the floor. Dear Member, on the first question, I believe that our scientists are acting in accordance with the laws and the rules laid down, and that as far as the collection of biological material is concerned, this is done only with the agreement of the various actors. When I look at the rules that apply to the handling of these materials, and I recommend your attention, in particular, to the information that is provided publicly by the National Centre for Biotechnological Information, it is always under the strictest possible security conditions if it is research, for example, by some deadly pathogens. The samples of these pathogens are stored in a safe and the worker without proper authorisation does not have access to these samples. I am sure that the ethical issue in the case of science is absolutely fundamental, and I believe that this is not happening - and I am not aware of the fact that these very sensitive samples have been taken and therefore the information that could then be misused. Surely we must be very, very vigilant in these matters. I know that these are sensitive and exploitable issues and we need to create a legislative environment that will protect the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic and supervise the ethically very sensitive handling of these samples. When you're talking about whether I know if there's any samples being edited here, that they're doing it to some multinational companies, that's not what I know. However, I believe that general rules must apply, that we must ensure that these rules are respected. And so, as I have met for example and consulted these questions on the general level, I really do not know that this abuse would occur in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u121	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and is there any interest in an additional question? Yes. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u122	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I deliberately raised this question, because I think we will be dealing with it in the future, that this research will continue to develop, and I do not consider the security measures to be sufficient. I'm just gonna mention the freelance work here - I'm not gonna mention the workplace or the names, but it's free access to the Internet. The work is called Genetic manipulation in pathogenic spirochets, where it is described that "with the help of plasmids, the spirochet genes have been inactivated or new or modified genes have been inserted into their genome. Random and targeted mutagenesis were achieved and some also transduction of bacteriophagus. So far, Treponema pallidum has not been genetically modified. For it, the applicable methods could be applicable to other spirochets.' This is a bachelor's thesis, so let's not take any illusions that take place at other workplaces. [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u123	čas, please. Thank you, and the Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u124	Mr. Ambassador, of course, this bachelor's work is unknown to me. I'd love to get to know it, and if you'd have any suspicion that something that's dangerous and ethically unacceptable is happening, I'd be happy to get to know it. Of course, the world around us is changing very quickly and the possibilities of science also bring risks. Therefore, should there be such changes as would require a change in legislative conditions, it is appropriate that we address this. But I'd be happy to verify the source and see what it's coming from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u125	Thank you, too, and we will proceed to another interview, namely Mrs Marie Pošarová. I will add an apology to Mr Oldřich Černý's apology for working reasons, today from 16.50 to the end of the day. Please, madam, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u126	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I have a question about the absent Minister Síkela about energy whether you are considering adopting a law on 50% taxation of profits on the energy core? That's the first question. Second, do you consider purchasing 30% of CEZ shares to be 100% owners of minority owners? How do you advise an employee employed at the Financial Authority who works as a senior clerk with a high school economic 20 years, who has two children, how to pay energy when only her salary is equal to all the energy - so what should she live and feed two children from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u127	Thank you for your intervention, Madame. The Minister is excused, you will receive an answer in writing. We are going to interpel Mrs Romana Fischerová, Mr Roman Kubíček will be prepared further. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u128	Thank you for the floor. I have an interview here for the Minister of Industry and Trade of Jozef Síkela, who unfortunately is not here. Dear Minister, the current government is failing to address the problem of rising gas prices. I have a specific example of the overwhelming impact of rising gas prices on Czech entrepreneurs in my area. My friend owns a hand glassworks in the Zlín Region. It is one of the oldest and longest working glassworks in the Czech Republic. In our country and in the world, this glassworks has a very prestigious position. Each piece of the product from this glassworks is an artwork of our master glassmakers' products, and now we see that increasing gas prices, with which the current government is not struggling enough, can endanger its entire existence. This glassworks was hit by a dramatic increase in gas prices, which is essential for their production. Compared to last year, this is an incredible 567 percent increase. For this glassworks, the monthly increase in costs for the company's operation means up to CZK 1.6 million, with total operating costs of around CZK 5.5 million. Such an increase in prices is therefore really essential to this company. If they were to compensate for the increase in costs by increasing the prices of their products, they would have to make a clear increase of up to 30%, which is unrealistic if they wanted to remain competitive. Last year they bought one megawatt hour for 16 euros, today it's 95 euros. The cost is 22 million more than last year. In January 2021 they paid CZK 500,000 for energy, in 2022 it was CZK 3.1 million, it was CZK 2.6 million more. With this price increase, they would lose their customers, they would have to close the glassworks and release all 100 employees. This would concern not only a hundred employees, but also their families, because the entire families are dependent on income. [[Time.]] Dear Minister, how does the State, in turn, intend to help the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which does not sufficiently address the sharp increase in gas prices, in May? [[- Please, time's up.]] [[- Please, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u129	I beg you very much to observe time, I must measure them all equally. And now, Mr Roman Kubíček, Mrs Iveta Štefanová will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear absent Minister, I have a few questions for you. In the press, I learned about the consortium's demands on price negotiations during the completion of the D4 motorway. I know it's check day. I would like to know whether the work on the D4 motorway continues according to the timetable, whether the budgetary framework set out on this motorway is being fulfilled, whether the completion of this construction, which is planned for 2024, is at risk and whether preparatory work is being carried out on the I22 expressway from Písek to České Budějovice with a view to connecting to this construction. Just in writing, as it is in those 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u131	Thank you. Of course, that's exactly how you'll get the answer. And now, please, Mrs Iveta Štefanová, Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u132	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I have an interview with Mr Vít Rakušan's Home Secretary. Dear Minister, on Monday 30 May 2022, a so-called tent town was built in Prague 10 in Malešice to serve as a temporary accommodation for Ukrainian refugees, with a capacity of about 150 people. I have a few questions for you. First of all, what refugees will be or are accommodated in these tents - whether they are war refugees from Ukraine who, according to lex Ukraine, are entitled to a visa of patience, and for these they will then seek even more permanent accommodation, or whether they are Romani refugees from Ukraine who also have Hungarian citizenship? How long will these people stay in these tents, and what is the next plan? And when it comes to refugees with Hungarian citizenship, how will the government proceed to address this problem? I would like to ask whether the Government has already dealt with the Hungarian side on this solution, whether anyone has dealt with those refugees, whether they have been offered the opportunity and assistance to travel to the borders of Hungary, a country of which they are citizens and where there is no conflict of war? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u133	Thank you for the interpellation. Of course, you will receive answers like everyone else in writing. Now, Mr Zdeněk Kettner, Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u134	Thank you for the floor. My question concerns the so-called institutionalisation of support pedagogical positions, which I will certainly support. My point is that it will now be piloted for three years and the funding should come to schools in 2025, but in a similar way in the VIP career program since 2005, it has already been piloted. Why, then, the three-year delay - if there's any way to hasten it? Second, the proposal shows that the total number of school psychologists and special educators should double. But there is talk of elementary schools, so given the situation that occurred at the secondary vocational school in Prague, the tragic event, whether it will also concern secondary schools? And the final question. Now we have some 100 jobs in secondary schools, secondary schools are about 1,000, and 400 jobs in primary schools, but primary schools are 4,000, and we know that the number of child psychologists and so on is insufficient. So is there any plan to increase the number of these specialists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u135	Thank you. Now with the answer, Minister Petr Gazdík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u136	Madam President, honourable Member, I have a polite request for you to follow me more, please. Follow my Twitter, my social networks and the Ministry of Education website. From them you would find that the operation program Jan Amos Komenský was launched last week and this week. This week, it was the high schools, the secondary vocational school you were talking about. There is a total of CZK 9 billion for the next three years for primary schools and a total of CZK 4 billion for secondary schools, so it is a sufficient financial background from European Union funds that will enable school teams of psychologists, special educators, social educators, teachers' assistants, teams that will be stable, which will not leave every time the support measures or the pupil moves away, will not leave and thus take with them all the knowledge of the specific environment, specific people and information about them and how to help them in particular. This is precisely the relatively generous contribution of the European Union, so that this testing, testing this programme, is at a much greater level, at the level of virtually all schools. And even after the announcement of the program, a few hours later, the first applications started coming to the Ministry of Education. There is quite a great deal of interest and the program is quite flexible. [[17.10 hours]] Since the introduction of inclusive education in addition to this possibility, there have been parallel two ways of financing support pedagogical positions in schools - national in the framework of providing support measures of the second to fifth degree state budget and also those of the European money that I was talking about a moment ago, this is at this time the operational programme Jan Amos Komenský. In 2025, we want to combine both of these systems into one. The aim is to set up a system so that the services of a school psychologist, special educator, social educator or assistant educator can benefit from the widest possible number of pupils. The need for the smallest schools under 180 pupils, in which it is not possible for a psychologist to work full-time, also needs to be covered. Thus, the Ministry sets parameters for the provision of positions of a school psychologist, special and social educator, taking into account the size of schools, the proportion of pupils with special educational needs in them. Here, too, we are based on the government's programming statement, and that is what the Education Strategy 2030+ is counting on. When you mentioned funding - funding from European funds, there is an exception. It's very positive because when they ask for the template and it's assigned to them, suddenly they get the entire allocation from the Ministry of Education for the next three years. This will significantly increase when I say business, cash flow of the school, and administration is greatly simplified. Originally, the funding was two years old, which meant more bureaucratic burden than when it's three years old, so I don't see the problem with that either. I will be very happy to be with you after a year of evaluation, we will turn to a political and professional discussion on how to set up national funding from 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u137	Thank you and I see an interest in the supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u138	Thank you. I have one more follow-up question. I have been approached by directors who have studied it, and they have informed me that they are currently entitled to some 3.5 times the time, according to the new rules it would be only two full-time jobs for these workers and they are worried about it so that these services will not deteriorate after the change. So what I want to ask is, how is this treated so that it doesn't get worse?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u139	Thank you and we'll know the answer in a moment's time. [[Mr Kettner is speaking to the Minister of Education in the area in front of the speaker's counter.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u140	I'm sorry, I can't confirm this information at this point. I don't think that's how it is. I'll find out, or I'll answer you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u141	Thank you, too, and now Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation was to follow, but I do not see him present in the hall, or he is failing. Mr Radek Koten follows and then Mr Patrik Nacher is ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u142	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to ask because I know that The Ministry of Health had such a plan and had a contract for the collection of covid-19 vaccines, and I think this project is still running, it was some 950 million a month. I think we're all aware that there are currently no covid-19 vaccination centers. I think that the person who wanted was already inoculating, and in a way, if we were to take care of a good farmer about the tax payer's funds, I think that every month purchases of vaccines for almost a billion crowns are unfortunately just a waste of money from health insurance companies and tax payers. So my question is going to go there if you expect to terminate the contract, because the covid-19 vaccine is actually on the original strain, which is currently no longer running among the sick, so from my point of view - and I am not an expert on vaccinationology, but from my point of view - it is vaccination against something that is no longer here, and I think that such a waste of taxpayers and insured people's money is inefficient. A year from now, it's going to cost more than 11 billion, so that's where my question goes. Given the situation we are in, it should actually be saved in every place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u143	Thank you for keeping time. And I'm going to say that there's an apology. President Alena Schillerová apologizes today between 16 and 18 hours for work reasons. And I will just specify that, of course, you will receive an answer in writing, and also Minister Válek is excused. Mr Patrik Nacher's interpellation follows and Mrs Romana Fischerová can prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u144	Thank you for the floor. So I've been excused since 5:00 p.m., and here I have to say fair and squarely in this interview that the minister called me, apologized for his participation today, so I'm going to give the question of legal and notary custody as far as Sberbank is concerned, until the next meeting, so that the minister can answer orally. This is what we agreed, and I keep the deals. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u145	Thank you, too, and now, please, Mrs Romana Fischerová. You can take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u146	Thank you for the floor. I've got an interview for Minister Vít Rakušan. Dear Minister, I would like to point out a problem which is plagued by a large number of municipal officials, state authorities. The point is that many citizens abuse, abuse the right to information under the Free Access to Information Act. People are often asked questions by notorious complainants, basically by quadrulants, where it is evident at first sight that rather than trying to get information, they are concerned with disproportionate burden on the information provider, i.e. officials who are already so often overloaded. Cruisers like this often ask for senseless information or demand them in huge volumes, thereby burdening the authorities. Minister Rakušan, may I ask whether and when the Ministry of the Interior is planning to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an amendment to the Act on Free Access to Information, which would help the authorities deal with their main activities and reject the requests for access to information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u147	Thank you for your interpellation. Once again, the Minister is duly excused, you will receive an answer in writing. As for the following interpelation, Mr Martin Kolovratník is still not in the hall, the interview is failing, and Mr Lubomír Brož is taking the floor, if he is in the hall - I do not see him here either, Mr Lubomír Brož has not arrived, so his interpelation is failing. The following is Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, with her interpellation, and yet she is not present, and the interpelation is also failing. Mrs Taťána Malá is not present either, so we are in a curious situation when the Minister arrived and did not arrive interpelling. We can approach Mr Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u148	Have a good afternoon. I am sorry that the Minister is not really here because I have a simple question, but I think that important for the future of this company, and I am concerned about how much funding the Ministry of Education will invest in working with talented young people this year. On the one hand, we are talking about the need for new startups, support for young entrepreneurs, support for talent and the like, linking schools with practice, and it is a question of what will actually be done this year. When I look at the statistical curve of the distribution of pupils and students, on the one hand, we have a part of the company that we support inclusion, and that inclusion started basically by my colleague Valachová a few years ago, and of course it will have to continue. [[17.20 hours]] But on the other hand, it is also necessary to look at the other side of the curve of the statistical distribution of the school population, and there I think it would be good to say operationally how much money is being given today, and strategically, what is the idea of the ministry, what it will look like in the future. I know that there is a 2030+ strategic material, but I think it's so far away that I wouldn't care about a normal person as a politician. So I'm wondering how it's going to be with the support of talent specifically this year and possibly in the next five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u149	Thank you for your intervention, Mr. Ambassador, you will receive an answer in writing. Mrs Iveta Štefanová's interpellation follows, and Mrs Margita Balaštíková can prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u150	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I have an interview with the Minister of Health, Mr. Vlastimil Válek. Dear Minister, the availability of primary paediatric care in the Czech Republic has been reduced in the long term as the population of practical physicians for children and adolescents gets older and smaller in number. This is a fact that has been mentioned many times and needs best a system long-term solution. However, in a situation where a large number of children's patients have been added to the country in a short time with the ongoing refugee wave in connection with the armed conflict in Ukraine, measures should be implemented which will be quick and work practically immediately so that this situation can be managed and the availability and quality of outpatient health care in particular for children and adolescents cannot be reduced. In the TV debate, you said that you would like to involve doctors from hospital departments more in the outpatient sphere as part of this solution. This solution seems to me to be one of the possible ones in this situation, if we talk about hospital pediatricians. But you said that you would also like to involve children's specialists, such as children's oncologists, in this event. And I would like to ask you: Do you, Minister, find out how many such possible, whether these hospital pediatricians, but also those specialists are in the Czech Republic, and how many of them could theoretically be involved in this? And have you dealt with professional companies and doctors who might have been involved? And how does the professional public feel about this solution, and at what stage is the solution to this problem now? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u151	Thank you for your interpelation, you will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. As for the following interpelation, I do not see Mrs Margita Balaštíková in the hall, or she is failing. Mrs Jana Hanzlíková also does not register in the hall, so the interpelation is failing, and Mrs Berenika Peštová is not present and the interpelation is failing. Mr Vladimír Zlínský will now speak with his intervention. Another intruder is also excused, I warn you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u152	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister - unfortunately, the Minister is not here - today I will again address disinformation, this is my favorite topic. During the last interviews, you denied that your ministry was preparing a law on misinformation, but I have information that the Ministry of the Interior is working on this law. Could you correct this contradiction? Surely, like the government, you are coordinating your procedure in this - as in other matters. I also have a question whether your government has not picked up signals that some misinformation that is attributed to Russia or the alternative scene is not spread by those who wish to silence the opposition by using false flag operation activities, i.e. false flag operations. I will quote the definition of Wikipedia to be clear: "Operation under a false flag is a covert operation conducted by a government, a corporation or another organization that is designed to appear to be performed by someone else. False flag operations are not limited to military confrontation and may take place in the civilian sector as well as during a period of peace, such as intelligence activities." End of quote. I am based on the Prime Minister's previous observations that freedom of speech is an obvious part of this government's current democratic establishment in our country. From my point of view, these activities or their cover could lead to the assumption that this could be a serious unconstitutional offense. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now we can delete the following interpellation by Mr Nacher, who is excused. Mrs Iveta Štefanová is now next to prepare Mr Karel Rais. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u154	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd have another interview with the Home Secretary, Mr. Vít Rakušan. Dear Minister, yesterday I heard that the Prague Magistrate would close down a centre for Ukrainian refugees in Vysočany on 15 June, announced by Mayor Zdeněk Hřib. And I would like to ask you, Minister, how will you deal with this situation further, how will refugees be accepted or not accepted in Prague after the closure of this refugee centre, and what is the next step in this situation? Do you already have our capacity in the refugee wave management strategy for individual regions and the whole Czech Republic in the area of accommodation, personnel capacity, education, health care, financial possibilities and so on? And in your strategy you already have a maximum number prepared, have you thought about the maximum number of refugees that we are able to help, accept and offer them adequate help in the Czech Republic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u155	Thank you for your interpellation. You will receive an answer within 30 days in writing, the Minister is duly excused. And I look around, Mr Karel Rais is not in the hall again, or the interview is failing, even though the Minister has arrived, and Mr Radek Koten is now coming up with his intervention. Also not present in the hall, the interpellation is failing. Furthermore, Mr Martin Kolovratník is not present in the hall, Mrs Margita Balaštíková is also not present in the hall and we are coming to an interview by Mrs Vladimira Lesenská, who is jumping over this. And the winning Mrs Margita Balaštíková would follow, she is still not in the hall. Mr Karel Rais is not present in the hall; the interpellation is failing. And now we come to an interview by Mrs Vladimira Lesenská to the present Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Yes, it was a rather unusual pace of dealing with interpelations. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u156	Thank you very much, and I apologize to the Minister for not having the previous interview. I would like to ask basically one topic that is actually left unresponsive in your government program, statement, it is an area of health and safety at work. This concerns, in fact, all people of working age in our country. It is precisely the consequences of accidents at work and occupational diseases that have a very sensitive impact on the overall social situation of individuals and their families, and in addition, if a problem happens, there are very high costs and social economic losses. I would like to ask how - and whether - the government is considering a long-term adverse situation in the area of prevention of OSH, but also in the area of rehabilitation for damage to health at work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u157	Thank you for your question, Mrs Jurečka, and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian answer this interview. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u158	Thank you, good afternoon. Madam President, fellow Members, before I answer the question, I will not be able to do so. Looks to me like there's been a bit of a mess going on around here. A few weeks ago, we were horribly criticized when it happened one Thursday, when an extraordinary meeting was convened until the afternoon of the interpelation, how we took the right of opposition Members to interpelate the members of the government, and there was a debate that was very emotional, and now here we are observing the opposite phenomenon, when there are interpelations, and as we could see here, a large number of Members who signed up for their intervention volunteered for it this morning, did not come to the interview. I don't understand. Where are the MPs? However, now the question that has been raised here. Safety and health protection at work is, of course, an important topic for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It is an agenda that we pay attention to, whether in the area of prevention, in the area of legal measures, when we are a gesture for this part and when we also regulate, for example, some government regulations where we tighten the rules and conditions for the work of people at work. At the same time, we also contribute specifically in the framework of the tripartite agreement to support, financially, from the state budget, projects agreed on by both employers and employees, which contribute to taking concrete steps that lead to greater prevention and education, which aims to prevent the risks of accidents or fatal accidents. This has been done in the past, it is happening now and for next year we promised at the Tripartite Bureau meeting about a month and a half ago that financial support will continue, so we are counting on it. I'm just gonna say a little bit of data. When we look at 2021, 88 employees died from accidents at work and 106 in 2020, so there was a slight year-on-year decrease. However, there were also 770 serious work accidents last year, and the others were 35 541, so it really is something that is a burning matter that needs to be paid attention. We also pay attention for the department as part of the inspection work of the State Labour Inspection Authority, which deals with the issue of OSH, is one of its agenda of control activities carried out in companies. I can say we're not slowing down in this activity. 5 234 inspections were carried out here last year and 12 111 infringements were found in this area. Of course, last year and year before last, the situation with regard to covid was not completely easy even for control investigations in companies, but this year we are continuing these activities. And of course, what is also important to talk about is the issue of strengthening the topic of safety and health at work at the level of education, especially at the level of secondary schools. I will also want to discuss this here with colleagues from the Department of Education, in order to strengthen this field more methodically, so that in the field of secondary vocational education, especially in the fields of teaching, even more emphasis is placed on the importance of this topic. So I think that in the area, whether it's educational, educational, legislative, but also in the area of control, there's a lot of work to be done, but there's certainly room for improvement. The last point, which is very important, is the question of rehabilitation. We have already discussed this issue at a joint meeting with Minister Válek, when we agreed to restore the activity of the inter-resorative group in the field of health and social borders, and this is one of the topics that is very important for us to come after people are released from urgent health care, immediately to follow-up rehabilitation, because it is absolutely crucial for the condition in which this person has a chance to return to his normal life, in what condition he has a chance to return to the labour market and minimise the negative effects on him and, of course, on his surroundings. So about as much as you asked, honourable Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u159	Thank you, Minister, and since there is an interest in an additional question, we will continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u160	Thank you so much for your answer. You guys kind of got into co-workers and co-workers who aren't here, and I'm gonna poke myself in the government. It's bad to interpel, verbally interpelling if you don't have the previous speaker. But now I'm going back to my question. I would like to ask, how will this issue be dealt with against Ukrainian refugees when they are employed in the DPP?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u161	Thank you and the Minister is ready to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u162	Thank you. I'll be more specific. I didn't mess with anybody, I found an unusual condition, which I don't remember here in the House during the time of the House, in order to succumb to so many interpelling Members because of their absence, especially those of the opposition, that is an unusual phenomenon. And that was just a statement, no poke. Your question. Here it applies - to anyone, whether they are people who come from Ukraine and have the opportunity to enter our labour market, or is an employee who is a citizen of the Czech Republic or any other foreign worker who has a work permit in the Czech Republic - applies to all the same legal conditions for their employment, so there is no individual approach, there is no other meter, everyone here has to be measured by the same meter, for all employers the same conditions apply to compliance with the Labour Code and all related legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-02-ps2021-025-03-007-143.u163	Thank you, and I must say that we have exhausted for today... Excuse me, I still have to deal with Margita Balaštíková, who is not present, if someone has not found herself in the hall, with the interpelations of Martin Kolovratník, who is not present, Margita Balaštíková, who is not present, again two interventions of Mr Martin Kolovratník - absent and Margita Balaštíková are failing - absent. So we've exhausted all of today's interpellations. I am of the opinion that we have finished this item for today's meeting day, and it has also been announced that today, after the exhaustion of the intervention, we are not continuing to conclude at 18 o'clock. So I'd like to thank you, wish you a quiet afternoon and evening and meet you back here tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Goodbye.
