ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 /house prints 328, 329 and 330/ And I'd like to ask the rapporteur, Králíček, if he could step forward. Subsequently, Minister Kupka, Minister Bartoš, and then all the others who are enrolled in the debate, are with priority. Thank you and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u2	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I confess that I have an idea of what to do when there are so few of us here to somehow revive this afternoon's meeting, but no, I will not do anything. And unfortunately, I have to say and say to my friend from the coalition, Jiří Horák, through Mr President - I will not be short today, I will be longer today, so I apologize in advance. However, I understand that there was a government and that the Minister has arrived, so, as I say, I will not do anything stupid and I will deal seriously with the subject. In my speech, I would like to remind you, in fact, what was the motivation and reason for the decision to recodify building law. Therefore, I would like to remind you that more than four years have passed since the Government's substantive purpose for recodification was discussed in September 2018. Our countries are facing ever greater challenges, construction production is undoubtedly one of the key priorities, both because of the transition to renewable resources and from the point of view of the availability of decent housing, and because of transport and infrastructure construction, and not least because of the economic and industrial competitiveness. However, we should not be holding back our voters, our citizens, who no doubt deserve to simplify the authorisation processes. Four years ago, it was confirmed that saving Czech public building law was not merely an amendment to the construction law, but that it was necessary to adopt a really new fundamental system change, which would simplify the already mentioned authorisation and review processes, reduce the number of stamps and coordinate the assessment of public interests in the context of the authorisation process, not by being taken care of by a builder. I will not repeat the need to remove the consequences of resortism here again, it has been repeated many times. There is no doubt that we need building law that will enable effective and real simplification of the preparation of constructions and authorisation processes while maintaining the necessary level of protection of all rights and public interests. It is necessary to free ourselves from the recurring paradigm of current practice and to allow for a change that will bring reform in authorisation and review, not just a transfer from paperwork to electronic form. Many of the then opposition and today government Members or Ministers appealed to the agreement and due consideration in the Chamber of Deputies, to the presentation of analyses, to the discussion and discussion of the solution at the time of the recodification submitted by the Ministry with Minister Klára Dostálová. Today we would like to appeal to actually the same representatives, but the coalition, headed by Minister Ivan Bartoš. The law, which our government has discussed and prepared for four years, is changed to a considerable extent, which has not yet been discussed in a wider way or has not taken place. Many organizations - and this has already been mentioned today - even complain that their comments have not been given room for settlement, although these are comment points. I myself would like everything to be linked and coordinated from the beginning of this process and the preparation of the Single Environmental Opinion Act is linked to the amendment to the Construction Act and to the amendments to other component regulations. This would not have to happen in order to create another separate stamp and institution instead of a truly unified opinion or decision. The programme statement of this and the previous government states, among other things, that the government will support and accelerate construction in the Czech Republic. Governments undertake to enforce legislation that will simplify and shorten the preparation of constructions to increase the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. Although there are more than 6,000 municipalities in the Czech Republic, a third of the population lives in the 20 largest cities. The complexity of public building law is also that the conditions for the implementation of the project must be laid down by the law sufficiently generally for smaller projects in smaller municipalities, but at the same time more specifically for larger projects in large cities and their agglomerations, and provide the necessary space for deviating solutions of local development, urbanist, landscape or natural specifics. On the one hand, the rapid urbanisation of large cities dominates current trends, on the other hand, the depopulation of cities and municipalities that are not successful in adapting to the changes being made. The housing crisis, the energy crisis, the refugee waves and the war, the highly serious issues to deal with, indeed, are many. I would like to enable us to respond to these challenges more easily, more efficiently and more quickly, both to investors of public institutions and private institutions, including citizens, in particular. I would like to report such an amendment, I would like to support such an amendment, and I believe that the whole opposition is with me as well. As mentioned here, we want to approach this issue constructively. [[15.10 hours]] We need predictable, stable and efficient planning and decision-making on building authorisation. Today's social and economic environment calls for building rights to lay down simple, applicable, enforceable and understandable rules, not only for large public institutions but also for citizens who are also facing the effects of this turbulent time. At the same time, public building law must create space for the creation of a common knowledge and value base, necessary for the formulation, discussion and implementation of land management strategies with the possibility of a more flexible search for answers to unforeseen challenges of the present. It is essential for the new legislation to clearly define today's uncertainties about the legal responsibility of actors throughout the process of territorial governance. It must also allow for involvement in the Western world of commonly applied indirect land management tools, in particular those still undervalued economic instruments and parameters of territorial planning activities. We need a fair balance of roles, responsibilities and instruments in the new regulation of building law. We not only want to ensure care for nature and landscape, soil, water, historical and cultural heritage, architectural quality and cultural value of the built-up environment, all of this we want effective, accessible and sustainable. The Czech Republic committed to this care in the Davo Declaration at the end of the conference of European Culture Ministers held on 21 and 22 January 2018. The topic of the conference was quality building culture. Since then, a number of documents, materials, visions, instructions, procedures and directives have been developed in the European Union. However, it is still true, and more than ever, in connection with the war, that public building law must enable the construction of buildings of the strategic and key importance of transport structures, in particular railway corridors, motorways, other roads and other infrastructure such as pipelines and network systems, dams and others. Building law must enable citizens' housing needs to be dealt with or solutions to the absence of civil and other facilities. Building law should also enable everyone to know reliably what public interest or legal regulation protects in a particular situation of the territory, how and under what conditions the territory can be used for intended construction. We don't need stamps, we need construction. The concept of recodification itself is linked to fundamental changes, not only to changes in the current state. However, I believe that the amendment has slipped to this, and the debate over it is therefore very necessary. I would like to have sufficient room here in the Chamber of Deputies to discuss this key legislation conscientiously and consistently about the benefits and costs and predictability, simplicity, clarity. Each sentence you read in the law should have clear and clear content so as to avoid endless examination procedures for formalistic or other minor errors. We can no longer allow further swelling of the component regulations, uncoordinated lifting of construction requirements without sufficient time to prepare for change without assessing whether the measure will offset the costs which make it conditional. The preparation for electromobility, for example, according to the investor's communication, causes more costs for each parking space, i.e. for each apartment more than CZK million. We should not be waving our hands at this, and we should be looking for solutions that would bring the apartments closer to people, not fired into utter irreversibility. Let us therefore look for reasonable, useful systemic measures. However, we must in no way resign from legal certainty, both the builders and the persons concerned. Priority should be given to the least possible administrative procedures in this decision-making and to the least possible administrative decisions, i.e. simplicity and clarity. The aim should be to shift attention from formalism and lead separate processes to the substance of buildings, their placement in the territory and related impacts on the surroundings. The reform of the whole system should also contribute to increasing the professional level of professionalism and impartiality of decision-making. It is necessary to amend or establish competences for the application of indirect land management instruments, in particular economic and fiscal instruments. The Czech Republic does not use these tools sufficiently. We want to reduce the number of types of proceedings, the number of administrative procedures conducted separately, the number of reviews and the bureaucratic burden. At the same time, in material terms, only interests from environmental areas can not be given priority over environmental areas, sorry, over interests, by the fact that only the result of a separate assessment of environmental interests will be a ticket for the assessment of other public interests and, of course, also the benefit of the project as a whole. Our aim is to prevent abuse and abuse of the right to delay, repeat the same objections in various processes, administrative and judicial ping-pong and obstructions. In this sense, I would like to refer to the conclusions of the RIA, which identified the text presented as the worst possible of the variants considered, and I therefore consider it extremely important to actually hold and work on Parliament's ground. In view of the scale of the issue, I believe that we really should give the committees sufficient time to discuss the proposal, at least in the length mentioned by Vice-President Klára Dostálová. I would also like to have all the relevant committees dealt with consistently in law, including economic, constitutional and environmental committees. Personally, I am ready to support the amendments that will lead to the resolution of the identified problems of the amendment and the removal of barriers to construction. Thank you to all who have not yet fallen asleep and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another with priority rights is Minister Kupka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only try briefly to respond to the speeches made by Vice-President Klára Dostálová and the honourable colleague. I see as an important positive signal, an important positive report, that on the opposition side it is the will to cooperate on a common consensual comprehensive amendment. As the previous performance was said here, it is clear that the objective is common, simply to ensure simpler building procedures. I dare to recall a few points, though. Now, in this current situation, if we were to create a new structure for the construction authorities, create such a fundamental entry into the public administration structure at all, so apart from the fact that this would mean additional dramatic costs, I am stressing again, it would also pose a threat to the stability of the exercise of decision-making administrative activities. This was one of the essential reasons why we decided to make the necessary change. In addition, I troufnout say, and here I point out again that the change we come up with is much more consistent with the requirements of self-government in a good way, because without them, the actual change simply cannot be made really. Without being able to proceed in this regard in harmony and with the understanding of individual authorities, this simply cannot turn out well. And the threat would also be that we would not have to have officials preparing those decisions for important administrative tasks at all. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that we share the key direction to unify this process very much, and we will also try, I dare say, together with the comprehensive amendment, to arrive at a principle, if it is possible to coordinate at one level, it is simply the duty of those authorities, ideally so that it can be inserted as a subset of the relevant JES, a single environmental position, within the framework of the current practically established coordinated opinion procedure. I think that's very important. I want to highlight what was said here, on which all the points are a match. The agreement in digitalisation is undisputed, the consensus in a number of principles such as the ban on ping-pong, such as the fiction of the consenting opinion, is a pressure on compliance with deadlines. [[15.20 hours]] What even the previous completely revised building law could not achieve - and let us tell ourselves truthfully - was a single stamp. One stamp wasn't even in the original one. Here is the task before us to try to deal with the procedural change, with the procedural unification so that we can really achieve as much simplicity as possible and not disrupt the current established structure of the public administration. This is all the more important, I think, that there are also words from the mouth of the opposition about how stability needs to be ensured at this difficult time, to ensure stability for the individual authorities as well. Of course, it must be pushed to overcome all the expressions of resortism, to overcome all the formalistic requirements, and to move really towards a real discussion within the process as well as on how to adjust those intentions, how to adapt them to the legal conditions, and to create space for dealing with applicants and negotiations with individual government bodies concerned. In conclusion, I would very much like it if - and here you know well that we are bound by deadlines like the previous government - we have a good solution in the course of the necessary deadlines. We have - this has also been mentioned here - launched a number of negotiations of platforms at the moment, where I believe that even with professional organisations we can reach an effective solution, it will be possible to reduce the number of stamps in the process integration that we are talking about, to reduce the time when builders have to deal with the specific demands of the authorities. That's a common plan. We have limited time. On the other hand, for all resorts - both mine and the Ministry of Transport and others after we are in close contact with the construction law - I guarantee that the taste together at one table of solutions to find them is unambiguous. Thank you for your attention and also for the fact that this debate is aimed not at obstructions, but indeed to a concrete solution, how to do the best for the Czech Republic and how to do it at the same time, so that both in the House and in the Senate, the final proposal has much more important support. I don't want to remind you of the votes in the House and the Senate over the original law. I think that here, as well as the lessons learned from previous experiments, it clearly states that the objective is a significantly wider consensus, even to make it a really stable building law, which will respect all other governments and all other Houses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u5	Thank you, Minister. Another one with priority was signed in by Minister Bartoš, but I don't see him anywhere. [[Minister Kupka: He's in the Senate.]] He's in the Senate. That's okay, so we're gonna keep going, and as soon as he comes, he can get involved in the debate. So there's no one here with priority. That way, we can move on to all colleagues who are enrolled in the current debate. Member Jiří slavík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the Government's draft law on a single environmental position. The process of integration in the environmental sector in the form of a single environmental opinion, the so-called JES, is a good step from my point of view, which replaces the original intention to issue a building permit in one place. The advantage is that only the builder will decide whether to apply for JES before applying for a building permit, which will be suitable especially for larger construction projects such as the construction of residential districts or larger buildings used for business. This eliminates the potential risk of environmental protection with its construction intent. Subsequently, it can incorporate in the construction documentation the conditions that emerge from the JES. At the same time, the law admits that the JES can apply for the construction office itself and the applicant does not have to deal with it at all, which will be suitable for smaller projects of natural persons, such as family houses. I understand the concerns surrounding the single environmental position, but I do not think that there is a fundamental reason for them. This official instrument is not created at the expense of nature conservation. On the contrary, construction officials will not make decisions on environmental matters, but officials who are well oriented on this issue. Therefore, expert statements will be de facto identical in content with today's statements and consents and binding opinions issued on the environmental protection section separately, but today, under the new law, they will be collected in one document, they will take one form and overall the green process will be very simplified. The important thing is that the builder will be able to appeal in case of disagreement with the appeal of JES, which is not possible today under existing legislation in many opinions. In my opinion, therefore, there is no reason to fear that JES poses a risk to the protection of nature, but at the same time does not burden our builders unnecessarily. Furthermore, allow me to make a brief comment on the amendment to the construction law. Many have already been said and, given the number of debaters, many will still be said. However, allow me to look at the longtime mayor of the municipality with extended scope, because the municipality is also a major builder, and I have therefore participated many times in the whole state authorisation process. Like any other natural or legal person, I believe that we need a new building law and that it is very good that the state building administration will be abolished. We all know that the public administration, the so-called connected model that has served municipalities and regions, has been operating for many years and has been very successful. I think that both municipalities and regions create good conditions for their officials, despite the fact that the state has been underfunded for years. But every village leadership, every reasonable mayor knows that a citizen is satisfied when he has his affairs dealt with on time and well. So to dismantle something that works, I would consider it fundamentally wrong. Furthermore, I consider it important that the number of construction offices will be determined by a decree that will allow for a flexible and factual response to the application of the new construction law in practice, how digitalisation will be applied. It is good not to make large radical cuts, but it is good to proceed evolutionaryly in this matter, not revolutionarily. At the same time, however, I believe that this law deserves some work, that it is necessary, as has already been said here by the Minister, to prepare a comprehensive amendment in the second reading, for which there will be a wider consensus. I can say that Members of the TOP 09 are prepared for this debate, ready to adopt a law that will be good for all our citizens and all our builders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another of the applicants is Mr Richard Brabec, followed by Mrs Klára Kocmanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, Brabec is supposed to perform after Slavík, so I think that's the right thing to do. I'm sure there's still a bird in our coworkers and colleagues. So, of course, that would be nice if somebody else performed bird after Brabc, but after all, it's a uniform environmental position. [[15.30 hours]] And it's a good thing we got together like this. I think you probably don't know, and it's logical, because of course this wasn't fully known, but the idea of a single environmental opinion isn't new. This is, say, one of the treasures that I left at the Ministry of the Environment to my successors so that they don't have to think of something new from the start and have enough time to get into those functions somehow. So we're... a single environmental statement arose, whether I am correct, sometimes during - or the proposal - sometime during 2020 or perhaps at the beginning of 2021. I always think of Jar Cimrman and the patent office, and the winged "now, now, here he was." So this really wasn't up to you, Mr. colleague, your - sorry, through you, Mr. Vice-President. So this, this material isn't new. But, ultimately, we are in a debate that has been many months, which Vice-President Dostálová can confirm, still within Babišův's government, and it has not been easy. Of course, we had the same discussion of conflicts between the Ministry of Transport, between the Ministry of Industry and Trade, between the Ministry of Agriculture and between the Ministry of the Environment and other departments, which naturally ran into certain interests, certain public interests that crossed there. That is why we finally decided that the degree of integration, and thus the acceleration of building management, including environmental agendas, will eventually be the most integrated way, let's say, and that was the last version of the construction law, as approved by the Babišův government, and so how the new government wants to fundamentally amend it. And the magic was that the idea of a unified environmental position, that is, those green agendas that are actually under several laws, were incorporated into one stamp in the finals. This means that what is now being presented is basically at least one extra stamp, because there is therefore an environmental process that can run before or in parallel with the construction process. But in our version, to which the Ministry of the Environment eventually leaned, it actually ran under a fully integrated building procedure. And I won back then - and it wasn't easy, some colleagues, colleagues didn't quite like it - that really where nature protection deserves the greatest protection, the greatest attention, these are national parks, protected landscape areas, nature reserves, national nature reserves and others, so there will still be opinions issued by nature conservation authorities, and not by the construction office. And that was the concession to protect nature. It is a bit paradoxical, and of course life is sometimes paradoxical, that actually some things are being defended today by the Minister of Transport, because the logic of the matter of the Ministry of Transport was that, and even today it is, which is not entirely happy about certain matters, such as public access. And it is also a bit paradoxical that, in fact, according to my information, naturally - but it also took place for us - there has now been a debate on what form public access will be in the government's proposal. Finally, according to my information, the Ministry of the Environment, under Minister Jurečka, or perhaps even then under Minister Hubáčková, eventually gave way to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in terms of public access to those processes. The debate was for us, too. That's what we have to say. I believe that the construction law, as presented by the Babiš Government and approved by the last House, already contained the necessary protection of the environment and the public interest in nature conservation. The public interest in nature protection, and I say this frankly, is not always the same when I say it very euphemistically, it is not always the same as the scope of public access to those proceedings, because we agree on it, and so it was also within the EIA and other proceedings that public access to those proceedings is important, but there is no reason for it to be chained, which means that the same public should apply three times to the same thing, for example, as it was in territorial proceedings, construction proceedings, or EIA. That is what I think we agree, and also in a number of countries, European countries with a very high culture of democracy or with a very high level of democratic processes, it just isn't, this chaining doesn't exist there. It is clear that, of course, NGOs, environmental NGOs will defend this right, because it was just there before, they will defend it. I assume they're gonna want that draft from the Ministry of the Environment that hasn't been enforced in the government right now to go back there. But I'm going back to the thought I was saying. If there was no construction law in the present form, which has an even greater degree of integration than a single environmental position, I would be able and prepared to defend, of course, the principles of JES. Not only because the idea originally came from the Ministry behind my leadership, and it was really logical because we were thinking, well, if overall integration didn't work out, let's talk about the fact that these agendas could really be merged into one green stamp. And the new government, the Fialův government, is now presenting this idea to us, but in a situation where it is at the same time disturbing or simply wanting to adopt another building law that already contained this integration in itself an even higher order. So at this point, of course, it leads me to conclude that a single environmental position, if the construction law approved by the last House were to apply, would be unnecessary, because it would actually be enshrined in the higher degree of integration. So this is for your own opinion or for your own law on a unified environmental position. So if I have that word and I use it at the same time to the next point, the amendment law essentially contains a whole series of whether I am wrong about twelve or thirteen, or even fourteen, changes to the laws - here is thirteen. And here I want to say that there are things that are not directly related to the changes in the construction law, and they are changes that are based on application practice, some simplification, such as things that concern... or the amendment of the legislation on geological work or agricultural soil fund and so on. There we are definitely ready ad hoc to talk about them. But, of course, I can hardly - or we can support changes within the framework of the YES movement, which are based on fundamental modifications to the construction law, which I believe are not coming. Indeed, there was talk of evolution or revolution. I think the change approved by the last House was revolutionary. As my colleague Dostálová said here in her speech, we also had to deal with really public interests conflicts in a fundamental way in the Ministry of the Environment, and they were, say, many hours or tens, hundreds of hours that we had not only among ministries, but with all participants from entrepreneurs to non-governments, through unions, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry and Transport, we simply tried to defend all possible interests. And it is clear that such a fundamental change will never please everyone. But I am convinced that we have managed to balance public interests so that the amendment, I say again, the existing amendment to the construction law, before your change, included all the key changes that should have been used to speed up the construction process, but not to resign to the protection of public interests and - logically from my point of view, the former environmental minister - did not resign to the public interest of nature conservation. And I am convinced that it was done by the last government and it was done by the last House. Here we see the fundamental erosion, the fundamental concessions from these principles, which, of course, I cannot agree with. [[15.40 hours]] Finally, once again, on a single environmental position - a good idea, which is why we came up with it two years ago, but in the end, we did not implement it precisely because we had an even more integrated and better idea. Unfortunately, that is now being interrupted by your proposals, and therefore JES, at this point in time, is quite a step backwards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As you requested, the third bird didn't come forward, but with a factual remark from Mr. králíček, if that would suit you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u10	Mr Vice-President, on the contrary, I just wanted to correct my colleague, because, as you know, the common rabbit is the smallest European bird. So on the contrary, the first person to start this bird series was králíček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u11	I'm sorry, Mister Králíček. We've got the whole thing. The other is, with a factual remark, Mrs Peštová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, of course, I'd appreciate it if the Minister of the Environment were here, because that's his gesture law, not the Minister of Transport, what we're going to talk about. I was pretty confused when I was looking for this law in eKLEP. It is amazing that this law is still there under the old name, so it was a bill proposal for a uniform permit or authorisation. You're putting him under a different name here, so you'd like to sort out the term a little bit. But I wanted to supplement Mr Brabec. Of course, then I will definitely perform, but I am interested - these are just comments from the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry and, for the most part, there have been contradictions. [[He's pointing.]] I said, I wanted the Minister of the Environment, I have the Minister of Transport. If you would then comment on that part 9, referred to in the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, where it says that the contradictions are expressed or not argumented, but properly described. So how did the Ministry of the Environment come up with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u13	Thank you. That was the second and last point of fact. We can switch to another logged in, and this is Mrs. Klára Kocmanová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Mr Minister, although we have a joint debate, I will mostly comment on the draft law on a single environmental position. I would begin by saying that we clearly welcome this simplification, a significant simplification of the complex system of issuing many opinions under nine different environmental laws for the pirát. But what I lack in the bill at the moment, and it was mentioned here, is public participation in administrative proceedings. That is why at this point, I am discussing an amendment with the Ministry of the Environment to change that. And why is such a change important? Public participation was for the first time significantly reduced in 2017. It was argued at the time by a significant acceleration of the proceedings, as the associations allegedly slowed down the construction proceedings significantly. However, as it turns out, this has not been confirmed at all, and the acceleration of the construction proceedings has not occurred at all. The only effect this change had was a significant reduction in involvement and discussion with the public, which also leads to less information on the ground. The impact of the construction on the landscape or endangered species must be taken into account during the processing of the permit. The assessment of the state of nature is simply an investor's task. If, as Mrs Dostálová said, through the Vice-President, there is a hamster or a particularly protected plant, then the biological evaluator should clearly find it or rule out the existence of a biotope. But unfortunately, some investors prefer the speed of processing and the most favourable results of biological assessments, and they prefer it to their accuracy. It is the associations that are often able to draw attention to such a situation, and I think that public involvement helps not only the transparency of projects, but also strengthens people's trust in administrative bodies. We consider both pirát crucial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u15	Thank you. It brought up two factual points. First Mrs Peštová and then Minister Kupka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u16	I had to. Madam, don't be mad at me, through the President. You know, the problem of everything or the problem of building management, and it's not just construction, it's also territorial plans, it's the follow-up procedures that, of course, are chained up, and there are opportunities where nonprofit organizations and not just nonprofit organizations enter. It's just that some citizens who want to be annoyed, they're just gonna be pissed off. And then it goes round, doesn't it, so it's callbacks, ends up in court and so on. I don't think there's a need to invent something that's already been made up. If you look at Germany or Austria, it's not so far from us, and you look at the way the proceedings are going, it's there once and enough. It is not there that you should intervene in every proceeding and in every proceeding you should do so in some way. And then when the hamster in the first trial, when it was made territorial, wasn't there, and now that it's done construction, that hamster is there. So like that, it's not all black and white. Maybe I can give you a nice example. I recently discussed with a friend of mine who has a construction company and was supposed to build where supposedly long ago there was a wolf, but unfortunately since he wasn't doing management, there weren't any more conditions, the biotope, as you say, to make sure the slug was there, and he just wasn't there. And the authorities forced him to do everything he could to get that scoundrel back there. He said, "Why should I go back to where I didn't drive him out of there?" I'm telling you, it's not all black and white. I've just always been a supporter of some kind of revision and should see if the animals are really there or the plants are there, or maybe they're not there anymore. And then we don't do everything we can to put them back in there, when the conditions aren't just adapted to it, so that the animal or the plant is there. And I understand that the biotope should be done where the conditions are. But these are things from practice that we've been seeing all the time. I understand you have some ideology, but sometimes you need to look into reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u17	Thank you. Minister Kupka with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u18	I just want to make it clear that the Czech Republic in no way lacks room for public relations in all key administrative procedures. Here we have an EIA tool that doesn't change anything and which is precisely used to enable public representatives to speak to those intentions in the broadest sense of the word, and, of course, within the EIA, the space is created correctly. And what we need to learn, and that is a lesson in this regard, as well as countries west of us, which we certainly cannot blame for ignoring the interests of nature and landscape conservation. This is that it is really entering into a public trial once and that it is not possible to abuse it for repeated obstructive procedures, where, as a result, very complexly in follow-up appeals and trials, the investor seeks justice towards himself and his often very legitimate interests, especially when it comes to the state. I would like to underline once again that, in this respect, the intervention in the form of the Single Environmental Opinion Act does not constitute a restriction or even a threat to civil society does not constitute a threat to the interests of nature and landscape protection. In my opinion, it is a really balanced step to assess this sufficiently, to give sufficient consideration to the interests of nature protection, while not delaying the process of negotiation and the whole process, which must necessarily include an assessment of all public interests. [[15.50 hours]] And the fact that we sometimes got into the opposite twist... I remember a few comments where the protection of the population comfort of the common sysla was a key element in the interest of conservation of nature and landscape. That sentence sounds awful, but it really sounded like it in those opinions. So I dare say that this, on the other hand, is also a memento for us to be reasonable. [[President: Also time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u19	Thank you. And before we move on to the next logged in, which is Mr Stržínek, allow me to welcome the Ambassador of Tanzania Abdallah Saleh Possi, who has come to see us with our Member. Welcome. [[Mutual greetings to Members in the auditorium and delegations on the balcony with applause.]] He came to us from Germany. And now I'd like to ask Mr. Robert Stržínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u20	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, the new building law was the result of a long process and certainly cruel compromises. It was a chance to simplify and speed up the construction process, which would undoubtedly also lead to a reduction in construction costs. Today, we have a major novel in front of us trying to graft a pear into an apple tree. That's a difficult task to fulfill, so it's logical that it didn't go well. The change in the system of purely government, to which the law was designed, needs to conceive of ties and strings. I'm going to touch three areas where I don't think it's very successful. As a result of the proposal submitted, the transfer performance model of the public administration will be maintained. At the same time, the aim is to preserve the Specialised and Appellate Building Office, which will be the competent building office in matters reserved for construction. The regional authorities are to exercise in this system, as is today the responsibility of the superior administrative body towards the municipal authorities, and they could newly authorise some major constructions at the first stage. It is now proposed to entrust itself to regional authorities and to authorise renewable energy production. It is also worth mentioning that the appeal principle, which in the event of a mistrial, will move the decision-making fully to the regional authorities, is also worth mentioning. However, this assumption can only be fulfilled if the appeal authorities are sufficiently staffed and technically equipped, otherwise there is a situation in which the regional authorities will not prosecute to discuss their agenda, to which the position of first-instance expropriation authorities will be added. The declared quick, transparent, digital and citizen close to the construction process is already moving away from us for the hunt. The reason report says that 372 new jobs are sufficient to do all of this, including the Specialized and Appealing Building Office. The salary costs are not calculated here. It is completely forgotten that the municipal construction offices, with the exception of the remark, are not expected to change the amount of the contribution provided for the exercise of the delegated powers as a result of the adoption of the amendment in relation to the actual present situation. I would remind you that the primary municipal construction offices today are a total of 694 and employ a total of 3 500 people. To illustrate, I would like to mention that tax payers of the town of Valašské Meziříčí, i.e. cities where I have been worried for the ninth year, had to pay CZK 10 million last year. The state here acts like a supermarket thief who, while paying for what he put in his basket at the cash register, doesn't do what he put in his pockets anymore. I also have some concerns about the performance funding of the building authorities. While the issue of IDs or driver's licenses with the standardization of work will certainly not be a problem, there is a difference in the construction process between the goat's pigsty and the waste energy treatment plant. I'm very curious about this roulette for the state administration contribution. Secondly, even if 372 new places were to be filled with new ones, who would it be? § 30a states that only authorized architects, engineers or technicians can work at the construction office of all stages, and I would very much like to see this for the money that the city office has to offer. It also says that they may be natural persons who have a higher education in the field of education of architecture, construction or law, have higher vocational education in the field of construction and one year of practice in the field of construction in public administration, or, thirdly, have secondary education with a secondary examination in the field of construction and one year of practice in the field of activity in the section of the construction order in public administration. However, Article 34 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty does not apply. 1 of Law No. 312/2002 Coll., on officials of local authorities, on the equivalence of education, says that it does not apply. Let me give you a real story from our town. We have 15 people at the construction office, including zoning, so naturally there is also some fluctuations. At the last tender, we chose a guy who had 30 years of experience in real estate. However, the above conditions or similar conditions of present-day § 13a do not meet. So should he complete his high school education at the age of 55+ even if he has a higher education in a different direction? It's nonsense. And three. The new construction law was designed for the conditions of purely public administration. The building authorisation system "one office, one stamp" is only possible within the framework of maximum integration and in the functioning of public administration information systems in matters of the construction order. Information systems of public administration in matters of spatial planning and construction order are to be Portal of builder, National Geoportal of spatial planning, Record of construction procedures, Evidence of electronic documentation, Information system of construction identification number and Information system of building management. Yes, that's certainly correct, but what did the government and the MMR do to make it work? It's nothing, or we just don't know about it. The explanatory memorandum refers only to implementing decrees that may be issued sometime in the future. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, allow me to conclude with a little divination. I don't know if you've noticed this, but the material under discussion, the House press number 330, the amendment to the Construction Act, has a total of 666, I'm not afraid to say, devilish parties. For me, this is a clear signal that building permits will continue to be hell for the builders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u21	Thank you, and other applicants are Mr Ladislav Okleštěk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, what is going on with the construction law? First of all, it should be recalled that any revision of the system of public building law and all related component laws is technically highly complex. Work on the new construction law took place for about four years, dozens of external experts and hundreds of comment points were involved with three discussions in comment proceedings and in the Legislative Council of the Government, annual discussions with a number of changes in Parliament. Performing fundamental parametric changes to the new construction law without this technical background and without real involvement and perception of the opinions of both the professional and the public concerned, as the Minister does today, presents a clear risk to the quality of such legislation. [[16.00 hours]] The new building law was a broad expert jury of the competition Law of the Year, organized by Deloitte, the Czech Bar Association, the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic and the Chamber of Tax Advisors, selected as a law of the year in the field of the quality of regulation of Czech business in 2021 and the public vote decided on the first place with a great majority of the total circus 68 %. The new government is equal to the new steps, and here they are - this is a delay in efficiency. The aim of the proposal is to defer the effectiveness of the new building law by one year, except for the most important, so-called reserved buildings according to Annex 3 of the new construction law. Reserved buildings include motorways, railway constructions, air constructions, water reservoirs, buildings and equipment of the transmission system, power plants, buildings and equipment of the transmission system, gas reservoirs, gas tanks, buildings and installations of taps and pipelines, buildings for mining, processing, transport and storage of radioactive materials, buildings related to radioactive waste storage sites, buildings in the nuclear facility, buildings intended for the handling of explosives and structures for the mining of minerals. A new building law should apply to reserved buildings from 1. 7. 2023 With everything that the new construction law brings, this is in particular: it would be permitted at first instance by the State Specialised and Appellate Building Office, which would itself assess all public interests without the need for binding opinions of the authorities concerned. At the second stage, the appeal would be decided by the Ministry of Regional Development, which should still perform the functions of the Supreme Building Office and which should no longer be annulled and the matter returned to the further proceedings, but would have to decide the appeal definitively. The proposal, by its content de facto, admits that the rules of the new construction law are significantly better than the current law when they are to be used as soon as possible and for the most important constructions. In this situation, it is paradoxical that it is proposed not to use these benefits at all for the normal construction of ordinary builders. A prepared government proposal by the Ministry of Regional Development, which was to use the time space obtained by the expected delay of the effectiveness of the new construction law until 1. 7. 2024 make substantive changes to the new construction law according to the government's ideas. Probably the only long-term presented and clear requirement of the government is not to create a new system of state building offices in the territory and to maintain the performance of the state administration in the delegated regime at the authorities of cities and municipalities. The provision of a substantive amendment includes the abolition of state construction offices and the maintenance of construction offices in municipalities and regions for all ordinary buildings. The solution will not ensure the unification of the performance of state administration, the mutual representativeness of officials throughout the system, the uniform management or the elimination of problems of systemic bias. It also includes abandonment of the integration of the authorities concerned. [[Dropping?]] Unfortunately, it was not possible to maintain the integration of binding opinions of the authorities concerned, including the EIA, into building offices in the first and second stages, as it was already approved in the new building law, in addition to firefighters, landmark care, AOPK and national parks administration. This is, however, an essential positive point of the new construction law, since everything would be judged only by the construction office in a single procedure. If this cancels, we are basically returning to our current state, that is the fragmentation of the institutions concerned without clear and enforceable deadlines. Unfortunately, already during the work there is a resistance to the proposed solution of the Ministry for Regional Development, typically from two sides. Firstly, it is the disapproval of small municipalities with the abolition of their so-called in the quotation marks of construction offices. At the moment, it appears that the possibility of setting up dedicated workplaces is not sufficient for them, since it would not be so-called theirs and would not be subject to the work-law of the municipality. Secondly, it is the opposition of the resort to the already approved integration into a single procedure conducted only by the building authority. The Ministry of the Environment, which has prepared a single environmental opinion, is most important in this respect. However, this would mean that the authorisation process will not be one in front of one office, but will be parallel to two - construction and environmental. Both processes would be a classic administrative procedure concluded by an administrative decision with the possibility to challenge them, of course both separately, by means of remedies, so that no acceleration can be discussed. No one integrates, everyone stays alone, and the only one who pays for this policy is the builder, and it doesn't matter if it's small or big. In addition, I would therefore like to ask for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions until 5 March, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Yes, I will write down your proposal and put it to the vote that you want to extend the deadline between first and second reading until 5 March. [[- Thank you.]] And thank you. Next in line is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Mr David Štolba will be prepared. [[Stolpa]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u24	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, which we have left. [[Voice off the microphone. The MP is turning around.]] You're the only one here now. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Excuse me, thank you for the heads-up, so sorry, but it's good to see you. [[the same]] The draft law was discussed in extensive commentary proceedings. It was presented with 55 contradictions, according to the petitioner, with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Justice, the South Moravian Region, the South Bohemia Region, the Karlovy Vary Region, the Králové Hradec Region, the Vysočina Region, the capital city of Prague, the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, the Association of Local Governments of the Czech Republic, the Confederation of Industry and Transport and the Ombudsman. Instead of a long speech, I would like to read only the contradictions that have occurred, I believe that this is sufficient for the first reading of this press. In particular, the divisions concern the proposed structure of the system of construction authorities in relation to the designation of municipal authorities of municipalities whose municipal or municipal authority will be part of the delegation, the competence of the special appeal building authority for the management of the proceedings and the issue of determinations on the approval of the intention of specific types of buildings, so-called reserved buildings. Furthermore, the position of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Industry and Trade as appeal bodies in proceedings concerning the authorisation of projects of certain types of reserved buildings. Furthermore, the position of the authorities concerned, the degree of their integration into the system of management structures and the forms of activity through which they are to carry out their duties, the process of making the land-use planning documentation, its changes. In addition, the requirement to modify the possibility of implementing zoning within a separate scope. [[16.10 hours]] Furthermore, the introduction of a territorial development plan as a national land-use planning dossier. Furthermore, the requirement to process the land-use planning documentation, its amendments and its full text, the territorial studies, the definition of the built-up territory, its changes and its full text and the territorial measure, as required by the uniform standard to adapt the requirements for the geodetic reference system, the breakdown of the transmitted data, the graphic expression of standardised phenomena, the exchange format and other technical parameters of the transmitted data and metadata. Furthermore, the appeal principle in the procedure for the authorisation of the intention. Furthermore, the position of the construction worker in the action against the decision of the building office as persons involved in the proceedings pursuant to Section 34 of the Administrative Rules of Procedure. In addition, the authorisation to provide for derogations from territorial requirements by a regulatory plan. In addition, the authorisation of statutory cities to issue implementing legislation for the construction law. Furthermore, transitional provisions, in particular in relation to the adjustment of the transfer of rights and obligations arising from the employment relationship of employees of disrupted construction offices, as well as the modification of the file separation. Furthermore, an assessment of the impact of the proposed RIA regulation, in particular the economic impact on local authorities. So much for the contradictions that they are. I quoted this from the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government. I should also have a few comments on the matter, and I think it will be appropriate, and I would like to suggest that the Vice-President will allow this press to be directed to the Economic Committee as it was with the previous amendment to the Construction Act, when the Construction Act was also discussed by the Economic Committee at that time. I would just like to mention that the fundamental change compared to the approved law is the maintenance of a mixed model of administration performance. I myself am a supporter, and I have said this several times that this model is not entirely appropriate, because it is not entirely appropriate to link policy with the performance of the state administration, and it occurs that some members of local authorities believe that when there are agendas under the authority concerned that carry over, that they can speak into it, that they can influence building procedures or misdemeanors. Most of the time, the secretaries must explain to them that this is not the case. I believe that the model that was chosen many years ago is not entirely appropriate and that the previous amendment to the Construction Act was the first swallow to make a certain correction so that the really transferred performance of the state administration is carried out as it should and that local authorities do not think that they can interfere with it. So much for me. I would just like to remind you that I would like to ask that the press be directed to the Economic Committee as the next committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u25	Thank you, Madame. I have noted your proposal to the Economic Committee. I will now ask Mr David Štolpa's speech and Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on the amendment to the Construction Act, because the speed of construction and the associated availability of housing are something that troubles all citizens at least once in their lives. We were here a few weeks ago discussing a government bill to abolish the EET, which unfortunately passed, and I am afraid that today's amendment to the construction law was based on the same manuscript. Just as the cancellation of the EET was not welcomed by anyone who was really involved, except the Ministry of Finance, this amendment is again not welcomed by anyone to whom it relates, except the Ministry of Regional Development. Thus, for the second time in a short time, the government shows that it is not interested in the opinions and views of the professional public. She just does what she wants, and she thinks she understands everything best. No one is satisfied with today's amendment to the construction law. Its critics even claim that, as a result, the situation in construction will deteriorate. Cities, developers and representatives of professional chambers, associations or associations representing tens of thousands of experts and enterprises active in planning, authorising and implementing buildings clearly say that the amendment will not only simplify and speed up construction, but will bring even more confusion into the system. Let me just remind you that the Czech Republic is about 160th in the world at a speed of building authorisation. For a family home, this means 4 to 5 months in an optimistic case. However, you may have bad luck, and various associations or neighbors may start to appeal. Then it happens that the entire process will extend by several years. In the summer the published study then shows that over the last ten years around 80,000 flats have been offered in the regional cities of the Czech Republic. Of course, Prague has a major share of the deficit with 44 000 flats. However, the pace of construction was not enough to demand in any of the Czech regional cities. As an effect, people then settle more in the vicinity of cities, which brings further problems, such as transport infrastructure and civic amenities. I can add a terrifying evaluation of the effects of RIA regulation. According to this assessment, the amendment will bring about a major deterioration in the current state of affairs. It does not bring about a positive change and does not bring about the degree of transparency as was the case in the comprehensive recodification of construction law, which was approved last year. The submitted amendment is, without a doubt, a step backwards. Moreover, the material presented is a major threat to the drawing of funds from the National Recovery Plan. One of the key conditions for fulfilling the commitments to the European Union is quality construction legislation and it is striking that this drawing is threatened by the submitted material when most of the projects and investments financed from the National Recovery Plan are subject to an authorisation process under the Construction Act. The non-systemic and hasty changes contained in the submitted material represent an extension of the authorisation processes, an increased administrative burden and a significant deterioration of the applicant's position vis-à-vis the administrative authorities. In addition, for example, the Association of Developers of the Czech Republic Tomáš Kadeřábek described how the new proposal was created in a completely transparent way, behind closed doors of the Ministry and without any real discussion. [[Director]] Minister Bartoš allegedly did not convene working groups or colleges and avoided negotiations on the proposal according to director Kadeřábek. The chairman of the Association of the Chamber of Architects, Kasl, then said that the aforementioned and just under discussion of the amendment is worse than the current way of construction, and is even against this government's programming statement. Unfortunately, the purpose of this law is to make better decisions for officials, not to build better, according to exactly the same logic as Minister Bartoš is starting digitalisation of the state by creating a new office. In short, an absolute loss of contact with reality. The significant deterioration of the number of underlying acts for the decision of the building office, most of which would be issued by municipal and regional authorities, will also increase the extent of the risk of the application of the objections of the systemic bias of the officials of these offices, as well as the problem of the lack of personnel capacity of these offices. The Ministry of Regional Development simply changes the conditions for the acquisition of territorial plans and their ongoing changes, without any political assignment, and especially knowledge of the state of the matter and reality of cities in the Czech Republic. The amendment of the construction law in this form does not help or solve anything, in the end rather harms. That is why I cannot support this proposal today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have not proposed any other procedure, so just for the record, I need to ask Vice-President Dostálová and Mr Oklešťek whether the proposals they have made concern all three of the press. [[Yes.]] This means, for all three prints, proposing an extension of the deadline and the commandment to the Economic Committee. [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Next up, Mr Marek Novák, Mr Martin Kolovratník, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak primarily to the press of 330, i.e. the law of construction. I will speak primarily to the translator, which is Minister Bartoš, and I am very sorry that he is not here. I am really sorry because I would like to hear why it bothers us - because today, primarily, coalition MPs with their majority of 108 votes want to push through the first reading of the amendment to the Construction Act. [[16.20 hours]] And again, this year, as always, we are in a situation where a law is to be adopted to force, which actually brings confusion into the system, a number of ambiguous interpretations and will result in a really and really further slowdown in the building process - indeed slowing down. And that will make us more unique among the surrounding states in this area than we are at the same time. After all, this government, or not really the government, but one of the five-party blackmailers, will come up with some alleged simplification and correction of the matter after the previous government, and that means only chaos, confusion and further reduction of trust in the state institution. There are other, darker reasons, such as an influence on the authorities, the creation of a tool to promote the interests of party bosses and friendly developers. Or maybe it's just another libation to the pirát to get this House to agree to some of their nonsense again, and they weren't just rolling around like their pirate flag. The essence of today's decision-making is the fact that we have a really poor amendment with a lot of unsolved problems and comments, which will definitely bury Czech construction at the moment when one minister of your government will soon run out of gas and other money. I may try not to do so for the 108-member deafness, but at least for the other Members who want to listen, as well as the public, to put forward some arguments. While you may hesitate to formally settle all comments, nothing is resolved in this amendment. For example, three points. First, the authorities can interpret the same agenda differently. The great competence of officials in connection with the number of regulatory obligations of entrepreneurs thus unnecessarily creates a difficult and inconspicuous business environment - difficult and inconspicuous. Secondly, there is disunity in the process of dealing with the same tax problem by different financial authorities, or their territorial workplaces in neighbouring cities. What will those companies do if the financial office isn't even able to have a uniform procedure? Thirdly, the procedure for submitting objections to the bias of the large building office, where proceedings are moved to another smaller municipality, in which it lacks knowledge of local conditions and sometimes expertise. Thus, the builder pays lower quality of the decision and its slowness for the removal of one lack of bias. These are comments from the Chamber of Commerce material, which is an authority that you are quite fond of protecting here and often within the coalition. However, the Chamber of Commerce hasn't been in touch with you lately. Ladies and gentlemen, so that we don't go far, we literally stay in this courtroom, I have to ask the petitioner, and that's why I say I'm quite sorry that I don't have Minister Bartoš here, because the question is: Did this law normally take place in the middle of the review procedure? Have they been resolved, and not on paper, but indeed legislatively, all the comments of the Ministry of Transport? The Ministry of Transport prepared a 19-page document with all the essential comments with the requirements for changes and adjustments. These comments were sent a few days before today's hearing. That is why I want to ask the absent Minister Bartoš: Have these comments been properly settled? Unfortunately, I don't have him here to answer my question. Maybe his colleague, Minister Kupka, will answer for him, too. And then we have comments from the capital city of Prague. In May of this year, the mayor for Pirates Zdeněk Hřib presents 75 most of the essential comments on this amendment. Are these comments settled by his party colleague Bartoš? I'd say they may be partisanized, but they certainly aren't. Very alarming are the effects of publication in the RIA evaluation report, and I will now quote: "The main disadvantage of this model is that it does not allow the process integration and reduction of the numbers of the underlying acts to be avoided by deliberate obstructions. Which may mean I'm gonna be frowning at the clerk, he's gonna board me on purpose, and I'm not gonna have a chance to defend myself. So it is not true that it is one procedure, one process and one stamp. It's not like that. Compared to the recodification from 2021, which has been postponed again and to the strength of the current coalition, the new proposal clearly brings the lowest efficiency of the performance of the building agenda due to the lowest concentration of knowledge or specification of relevant officials and the lowest possibility of sharing personnel capacity. It also has incomparably lower possibilities of uniform methodological management, controllability and enforcement." I'm quoting this from RIA. And again: lower possibilities of uniform methodological management, that is, confusion of controllability, that is, the official will do what he wants, and the enforcement of official procedure. We can't leave it like this. Other substantial quotations from the RIA are when the new proposal also calls for a lower transparency of the use of funds from the state register from the point of view of their particular use, the elimination of the lowest number of underlying acts that are repeatedly reviewed or sued within a binding period, i.e. they will actually increase, the smallest reduction in the average time of the authorisation process due to the elimination of a smaller number of court proceedings and from possible variants of the very lowest macroeconomic pro-growth effect, regardless of the current situation, is chosen from the budget's most expensive and worst possible option - the most expensive and the worst. In other words. Everything essential that the new proposal should have brought and what has been declared to us here several times by Minister Bartoš, we just don't have it here today. Ladies and gentlemen, one must be given to the government, or to Minister Bartoš, and this is folk creativity by the Ministry of Regional Development Bartoš, who has united almost all the groups in construction. They all call for a few months to stop the current crazy novel and return to the negotiating table. By adopting this amendment, we are really going into the abyss, at a time when we need to start construction, stabilise real estate prices on the market, start building affordable housing for young families, for the professions needed, and, last but not least, socially weak fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider whether to allow this amendment into the next reading. Please don't accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u30	In order not to remain indebted to some comments from the point of view of settling comments, whether to JES or to the main carrier amendment itself, we have actually applied a number of things for the Ministry of Transport, and even as part of the adoption of a proposal to the Government, we have tried to complement what could really pose a risk to the speed of individual proceedings and have managed to unite ourselves on a sensible solution. At the same time, your colleagues and I agreed that the next procedure would, if possible, be hand-in-hand with negotiations on a consensual comprehensive amendment that could address a number of contradictions or comments. As for other theories regarding the fact that this is the most expensive option - I do not want to get back in this direction to arguments justified and documented by the Ministry of the Interior against the previous form of the building law, when it was clear that the Ministry of the Interior had outlined all costs in the tens of billions of crowns, or all potential impacts. The change we bring opens up other options in the case of small construction offices, where the charging or reimbursement of the activity should be effective. And we are already registering the interest of some construction offices to integrate or connect with other municipalities and to ensure that they will actually carry out the agenda in this direction as efficiently as possible, so it is clear that this path, which is agreed with the authorities, will have an economic effect as well. As regards the last point concerning RIA and the method of reply in general. The scope of these comments is very similar to the number of previous versions, and they were also answered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u31	Thank you. Mr Martin Kolovratník is now duly signed up and Mr Jiří Havránek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u32	Hello, good afternoon, colleagues. What will my speech to the construction law as the author of the comprehensive amendment, the text that we have succeeded in agreeing here in the House during the last parliamentary term? Well, it'll be critical. You know, my colleagues from the government coalition, when I was about to do the show, I thought of such a parallel that you were presenting us with a semi-finished product. The semi-finished product that we will have to work out here, whether it will be the JES issue, the single environmental position, where I register, and I perceive that there is no full consensus within the coalition, the issue of the number of construction offices with the definition of performance, with inspiration from the registers, the issues of big cities - I remind you that we have worked with so-called urban artifacts during the last election period, now the big cities are not answered, simply that you are bringing material that is half-finished, and we are hearing everywhere and over and over, and you say: We are going to finish it, we are going to bring the amendment or the amendment. But the more I deal with this issue and load public resources, the more I am convinced - now it goes to the responsible minister, Minister Bartoš - that the minister does not present us with a semi-finished product, in the pre-Christmas period I will compare it to making a Christmas meal. He doesn't present the finished baked product that we're supposed to do here in the House just fine-tuned, decorated. He only presents individual ingredients, one or the other kind of flour, one or the other kind of flavors, and it seems that here in the House we're still going to agree on what it's all going to look like, how it's going to all turn out. In order to base this argument on arguments, the first argument is today's state, how it works not the last construction law adopted by us, but still the so-called old, still valid, and consider it one of the many illustration examples of how it works in practice in the direction of the methodology of the Ministry of Regional Development, the decrees and how individual officials in the disunity against which we tried to intervene, how it works in practice. It is a matter of tourism and camping. The industry associations, experts on this issue, months and years try to communicate with the Ministry of Regional Development, try to communicate with the Ministry of Regional Development, try to make a single statement and make a clear statement about what the buildings are, what the equipment is with the purpose of construction and what the construction is not. And those questions, you know, if you're in summer recreation, there's a lot of them. Illustratedly, I'm not going to show these pictures: what about a tent that's in the camp, but it's on a wooden mat and it's been there all season, practically all year? What about a typical trailer with four wheels, but built all year round, with no essays, all year round at the camp? What about the caravan that's located there? He's mobile, but he's at camp all year round? So, friends, you might be surprised, you may not believe it, but the Ministry of Regional Development in some of its decrees and methodological guidelines says that what is mobile cannot be a building. However, the Supreme Administrative Court, in its caselaw, is a judgment of 7AS216 of 2019, says that it can easily be a construction, that it does not decide whether it is or is not mobile, but that the most important characteristic of a product fulfilling the construction function under the construction law is whether it is located somewhere permanently or in the long term. In other words, the Ministry of Regional Development and its officials themselves break up with the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court. The same issue is dealt with by people from practice in the definitions of mixed territories, the so-called mixed unbuilt territory. You may have noticed articles in the media about how they are not on private property, but, friends, on state land, on the Vltava basin, various official, semi-official and unofficial camps. Some of these camps have been there for years, some of them for the short term. It's a beautiful business, insurance companies even insure such facilities sometimes. Yeah, but the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development's spatial planning says there's nothing he can do about it, and it can't be on mixed unbuilt territory, but it has to be dealt with by the construction authorities. Here the issue I received is from the municipality of Milína and the construction office concerned in the village says: No, no, no, we don't have to deal with it, it's the issue of the Ministry of Regional Development, it's the issue of territorial plans. In other words, really - and please take this as an illustration example - it is already happening in practice today that the methodology, the explanation, the work with the law and the legal standards, is completely different and inconsistent. One campsite operator must also have permission for tents on the floors, other operators may have nothing at all, even for classical buildings, classic small buildings. This, my friends, looks like the legal environment in the Czech Republic today, these days. That's why I'm going back to the definition of the semi-finished product, but the individual ingredients we're getting, and I want to show on this the enormous risk of access that the representatives of the government coalition, the ministries of local development, transport, the environment bring here. How do you ladies and gentlemen want to complete something here, to fine-tune it in the form of amendments, and to refer only to decrees and methodologies when you see for yourself that it is causing enormous problems in practice today? And I'm going back to the new construction law that Klára Dostálová and I were preparing. This is exactly what we wanted to cancel, this is what we wanted to stop. Integration, uniform interpretations of methodologies, uniform procedures throughout the Czech Republic, everything from A to Ž unified, the same, without any indication of the folk creativity of officials at designated construction offices. We went against that, and unfortunately, you're going back to that. A uniform environmental position, a thing that looks good at first sight and could look good - integration, a sector of the environment in a single place. Suddenly we learn how you are one word, a very short formula, here the general public, citizens are excluded from this process. We are told that perhaps colleagues from the coalition, Mrs Kocmanová, will try to undo this by some amendment. The existence or absence of individual building offices, here I will return to the debate two years ago, a year and a half ago. We clearly said, "Those authorities will not vanish, they will continue to function, only those officials in the municipalities will have another boss, another supervisor." Now we learn a few months back that maybe half, maybe two-thirds of them will disappear. The village is logically angry, so we will then learn that it will be solved by some methodology or by some decree. And if I quote František Lukl, the head of the Union of Cities and Cities, I must say that his attitude seems scandalous, insane, that he does not fight for the municipalities at all, and that he says cautiously: The agreement is not entirely definitive, it follows the requirements of the Union, but the MMR - I quote František Lukl - will have the power to establish a decree in which particular municipalities of construction offices remain and where they do not. So their fate remains in the hands of the Ministry. Well, that, ladies and gentlemen, if Babišův's government had done that, if we had allowed ourselves to put into the hands of any evil ministry such a powerful tool, well, I'd like to see those demonstrations here on Malostranske Square. I guess that's right now. So this is the way you're going, this is what you're suggesting, is that what we're here to agree on? I'm really in shock, ladies and gentlemen. [[16.40 hours]] Here again I appeal - Marek Novák said it before me, Klára Dostálová suggested this - let's put it back, put it back to processing. I understand from my colleagues that an agreement is being made on a comprehensive amendment. Exactly those sentences that I'm saying here, and the illustrations that I'm mentioning, we can work out in concert, not stick them in quotes with dozens, maybe hundreds of amendments. I myself wonder if you will go the way you have decided - that you will most likely go the way - what your five-wheel agreement will look like in support of individual amendments. Other specific examples. Prague construction regulations or construction regulations of large cities. Once again, I remember how much we had, how much we discussed, worked out in the last parliamentary term. I am not hiding - perhaps somewhere to find out - that at that time my opening position as author of the comprehensive amendment was also opposed. I said: why have exceptions, why change anything, why not have it unified throughout the Czech Republic? I've had the issue explained. I looked at the intensity and especially the quality of the buildings here in Prague, such neighborhoods as Vinohrady and so on. I understand from my colleagues at the Institute of Planning and Development that this beautiful modern neighborhood - and it is not just Prague - Vinohrady, it is Amsterdam, Berlin, other European cities - with a normal construction law, central for the whole Czech Republic, that we will not just make them. Again we learn the argument of the petitioners: "We will take it upon ourselves, we will work it out, some - and now I do not know whether by decree or by amendment - we recommend to set up uniform technical regulations in accordance with the opinions of both the regions and the Chamber of Authorized Architects," explains Minister Bartoš Veronika Hešíková. So I don't know how this thing's gonna turn out. Single environmental statement, I've already talked about it. Our completed integrated construction law assumed that we would solve the permit in one single administrative procedure, with one stamp, at one construction office. The key thing we saw in that, what we believed in in integration, that all public interests against each other would be assessed in the same proceedings. It is not only the environment that is of public interest, but also the protection of monuments. I remember a very difficult debate with Minister Zaorálk, who was fighting for his resort or the issue of conservation. I remember talking to firefighters, with an integrated rescue system. All of this gave us the logic that it would be discussed in one place. Suddenly we learn that the famous single environmental permit is dealt with, discussed sometimes in municipalities, sometimes on the outskirts, sometimes at the Specialist Office, depending on the type or size of the buildings, but completely separate from other public interests. So think about the common sense yourself, you colleagues who are involved in this, who know these processes. Is this gonna work? Do you reduce the risk that another protector of other public interest or other concerned body will not have a problem with this when jumping is proposed - I don't know - some lip or the introduction of some high-speed Internet connection on historic buildings, that they will not have a problem with it elsewhere, that they will not appeal, that they will not be able to stamp it? Well, of course there's gonna be a problem. Second, the second problem is that, on this point, the exclusion of the public from decision-making processes is already mentioned. I'm surprised here that the organization that protects nature hasn't said much yet, that it hasn't bothered them so much yet, it's a complete but really complete abolition of citizens' rights to protect nature in its immediate vicinity. As a traffic person, on the one hand, I can understand Martin Kupka, Minister of Transport, I can understand the Minister of Industry that they don't want this, that they don't want the public there so much, I understand that. But what will it do in the other processes? If, at any stage of the single environmental permit thus issued, it is said that the pressure will cause anti-pressure. Of course, the one who is not satisfied will be attacked by such a single permit. I'm glad to record opinions or impulses from the coalition camp, signals, from my fellow pirát, I see to the lady here that she wants to deal with this issue, that she's trying to make an agreement and maybe an amendment. So, I'm guessing this is definitely gonna be a thing that, if she's reasonable, we're gonna try to support her, too. I've already talked about building offices in small towns. We didn't disturb them, we just wanted to change their organizational structure, but we didn't want to disturb them. I remember those debates in my Pardubice region when I explained when we put the transitional provisions in our calculations, for example our region concerned about two or three remote construction offices. After all, this is a matter that we can change each other after a political agreement with a simple, small amendment during the transition period from 2021 to July 2023. We can fix it, we can model the parameters a little bit so that not only in the Pardubice Region, but also in the other physically these authorities don't disappear. I'm repeating myself. What do we learn today? It will be determined in a similar way to the register based on performance by some sort of decree. It will be only and only fully in the hands of the Ministry of Regional Development. Well, I'm very curious about that. I'm not going back to a single environmental position. At the end of my speech, I will mention two other risks which I identify not only in the content of your proposal, but also in the form of how you want to work with it. With the content: I have now returned from the Transport Sub-Committee - and what we have not learned! This, my friends, is an interesting topic of these days, the issue of the definition of built-up territory in municipalities. Another definition of the built-up area has been proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development in the interdepartmental commentary procedure. The road to Hell may be paved with good intentions, which, if you imagine the area of the Czech Republic, should it be accepted, will increase the built-up areas in the Czech Republic by double. So maybe you'll all be like, "Well, the mayors are just gonna have bigger built-up areas." It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. Yeah, well, there's a connection to traffic in the built-up areas, Act 13, and Protection Zones of Communications. If you've seen or seen the issue in the media about illegal billboards - and now not the big ones that have been able to get rid of the highways, the static ones, from the first-class roads, but the little ones, the metal ones, on the sails, the crazy business where the cheaters are actually going around, they're using our legal environment, so they're sinning on the fact that before the road administration orders the removal of such equipment before the communications administrator takes it somewhere, two months will pass. The company that runs this is going to move 2, 3, 5 meters further in those two months, and a new administration is starting. In other words, it is cheating in built-up areas, it is dramatically cheating in built-up territories, and suddenly - and I want to believe that there is no evil intention behind it - we suddenly find that the draft law is prepared by the government coalition, designed that such a defined built-up territory, where there are huge problems with illegal billboards, such defined built-up territories are even to double. And the last concern, the last topic I have for you, is purely from the Department of Transport, from the Railway Administration, from the Infrastructure Manager. You know, we've had a lot of budget debates here, a big transport plan. Some have moved on this year, it will shift to next year, but we hear the ambition of the government coalition to continue them. These are huge, important infrastructure structures on the railway, such as the railway section Prague - Kladno on the section Kladno - Kladno-Ostrovec. It is the Prague part, Prague-Ruzyně, Prague-Masarykovo Railway Station, modernization of the Smichov station, historical building Nádražní in Pardubice. I warn and warn that all these major projects are threatened not only by the confusion and potentially longer issued stamps. They're gonna be dedicated constructions, so there I believe the shortcut, the accelerated process will be preserved. But they are also at risk for many other reasons and I only quickly in one management summary, which the infrastructure manager had drawn up from a reputable law firm, which are clearly described. [[16.50 hours]] Firstly, essential for railway management to continue to retain the jurisdiction of the State Building Office, namely the Special and Appeals Office, ideally also with the EIA processes and a single environmental permit, the highest level of integration on the railway. I'm reading and I suspect that this point 1 will be maintained. Point 2 - a huge problem. The construction office in the second stage, which is designed into the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development. But we all know that MMR, and that's just the way it is, it's chronically overloaded. It is not professionally equipped to assess buildings. koneckonců all, the Ministry of Transport contradicted this as part of its comments. So when we know that the return of the integrated Supreme Building Authority is simply politically inaccessible, I warn and give consideration to alternative solutions so that the second level of appeal is not at the Ministry of Regional Development. About the unbuilt, sorry, I was talking about the built-up territories, but at the Railways Administration, the key new building authorisation in the new track, we are approaching high-speed lines in unbuilt territory, and although this possibility for railway workers is preserved, according to what we know until now according to the planned material amendment, it is proposed that the transport infrastructure be consistent with the nature of the territory. Here we go. Once again, it will depend on legal interpretation, on administrative discretion, whether the new track, the publicly beneficial, ecological railway line, whether it is or is not in accordance with the nature of the territory, the untouched landscape, the fields, the meadows. I'm warning again. Can you imagine, friends, the problems, the appeals, the endless lawsuits, if the new track where we believe is correct, will be high-speed, connect, for example, Ústí nad Labem with Prague in 20 minutes, but can you imagine, for example, in the area of Terezín, where the municipalities are already angry and have a big problem with it? They're being discussed, they're being dealt with, but if someone is simply convinced that they're not in line with the nature of the territory, and they put this in court, how long are we going to fight them? I'm afraid I can imagine that none of us can imagine. Probably the last argument to stop stalling. I suspect or have been informed of an agreement for a longer period of discussion, for a period of time, that we will, of course, return to those arguments and to the committees. The last one for the railroad guy, for the Railway Administration: it clearly states that the novel, which is now designed, the factual one, makes it possible to make decisions in the territory by carrying out an architectural or urban competition. I quote, if you watch it in the media, Railway Administration often does these architectural competitions already, for example, transfer terminal in Nehvizdy and so on, but it doesn't always have to be done, it doesn't always have to be necessary. However, according to how your novel in fact is now written, as I've learned it, it says that the publication and implementation of the competition will be one of the conditions for allowing a decision to be made in the territory for the location of such a building. At the same time, the condition for the execution of the competition is not limited in time. Well, that's a big risk I'm pointing out, and I'm sure I'll try from a minimum point of view. Railway administrations will eliminate or minimize such things, unless you put our sensible words, colleagues, and colleagues, back to the amendment together with us, who know and know it for the opposition, because we have been doing this for more than four years in the last parliamentary term. So if we can at least agree on that longer term for committee discussions between readings, I'm sure these are the risks I've identified now in my brief brief speech, I'll bring them in, and I'll try to get you to deal with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Robert králíček is reporting with a point of fact and Mr Jiří Havránek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u34	I would only briefly follow up on the brief and brief speech of my colleague Kolovratník, namely, on the basis of what he mentioned here, the arguments, here I would like to propose an extension of the time limit for discussion between first and second reading by 20 days, i.e. 80 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u35	Thank you, I have noted your proposal. And now, Mr. Jiří Havránek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u36	Thank you for the floor. Beautiful good evening, colleagues, and I would first like to respond to what has been said here. First of all, to my colleague Brabco and Slavík - I will only add that there is still Havránek, he is a small bird, but still a bird, and then to Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President, also. It sounded like we're baking a Christmas, it's a semi-finished product and so on. I'm just - I'm surprised at the words when I think about how the construction law was brewed here in the last parliamentary term. However, let us talk about what is on our table today, and a proposal has already been made by Mr Králíček that there will probably be an extension of the time limits. However, we already have hours of work worked here, whether it was in opposition to the then amendment to lex Dostálová, then right after the elections, when I remember that the meeting took place in the first post-election week with the then Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, on amendments and on that, respectively, about the amendment of the construction law, how to stand up to it. And now I dare say that at least for the government coalition, we are glad that after the amendment, we are here in the first reading of the construction law. I like the construction process for simplification, or its length in the Czech Republic, to compare it to when you get the Lego kit on Christmas, but someone will tell you that you are forbidden to play with it for 246 days. And God forbid, if you wanted to build in Prague again, or it was some more complicated construction, because that would take years to drive there. And that is why, in fact, there is a change that preserves what is good in the amendment to the construction law. At the same time, it comes in line with the Government's programme statement that it retains a mixed model with the availability of construction offices in regions and citizens will also be ensured transparent, fast, and, importantly, digital access to the construction process itself. I look forward to the committee meetings. Cooperation has been mentioned here on a major amendment, which will precise for the process integration. In cooperation with Jakub Janda, I can say, and also with Mayor Trojanovic Jiří Novotný: we are working on another amendment that is intended to deal with the swing housing, which may be another element of how to help solve the housing crisis, especially in the countryside. It was said that other amendments would also appear. I believe that there will not be hundreds of them, as has been said by Mr Kolovratník, but they will be here - we will be voting on the extension of the time limits for committee discussions. But I would like to announce that, although their extension may occur, it is important to really start acting right after the quiet Christmas holidays. So, in the first week of Parliament, I would ask my colleagues from the subcommittee on housing policy and construction to see if we could meet and discuss the construction law. And I would like the same thing for the Transport Ministers and for local development. At the same time, for the sake of clarity, I would like to ask you here to unify the Guarantee Committee on the Public Administration Committee, which, if I have good information, is a consensus across the Chamber of Deputies. I will then suggest this in the vote, i.e. that all three prints, i.e. 328, 329 and 330, have a public administration committee by the guarantee committee. Colleagues, colleagues, beautiful rest of the day and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u37	Thank you. I have noted your proposal, and then I will vote on it with all three press. Mr Kolovratník's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u38	We're approaching an agreement, it's pointless to poke each other, but I have to respond, I have to say it. Again, our new construction law wasn't created in a week or two days, it was going to be three years, sometime since 2017. Then, in autumn 2020, we brought him here to the House, including a comprehensive amendment. And I'll remind you, the House has been working on it for over six months since November 2020. I don't remember the data exactly. It was accepted in mid-summer 2021. We reached out then. Those deadlines were even 100 days to discuss between committees, so I'm sure there wasn't any sudden, last-minute baking, and we gave it a hell of a lot of time, first of all. And secondly, colleagues, if I wish to be evil, since the negotiations in the spring of 2021 and then from the election campaign, we have heard from you how prepared you are, how it is made up differently and new. You had your comprehensive amendment. And then somewhere in the media, I heard that the novel you're going to change, how it's done, how it's prepared, so it's going to be presented in the first half of this year. It's December now, my friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u39	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u40	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, we are about to conclude on these points. I see that the atmosphere here is such as Advent, pre-Christmas, but allow me to say a few words very briefly about the draft House press 328, which concerns a single environmental opinion. For me as a petitioner, because I could not speak at the outset of this point, we had the government's actions, I just want to say that there is a proposal that actually has the ambition to really integrate the whole area of environmental protection, and so we are introducing a single environmental position, which is in the form of a binding opinion, for all projects authorised under the construction law, whether these are projects requiring EIA, or the intentions of others and other projects which are subject to environmental impact assessment and are subsequently authorised under a non-building law, such as the Mining Act. JES will be issued instead of administrative acts contained in nine different environmental laws, which have valid and effective regulations mostly for a binding opinion. The competent body issuing the JES will, in defined cases, be a regional authority, and these are projects under the EIA regime under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the projects for their implementation is a required exemption from the so-called generic protection under the Nature and Landscape Act and so on. In other cases, it will be the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope. For several specific types of defined projects, specifically listed in Annex No. 1 to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the issue of a uniform environmental opinion will be relevant then directly to the Ministry of the Environment. The integrated administrative acts issued by nature conservation authorities in specially protected territories, European major sites and bird areas will not be included in the Single Environmental Opinion. In these most valuable areas of nature conservation, the decision of the competent nature conservation authority, i.e. the Nature Conservation Agency of the Czech Republic, national parks and regional authorities will be necessary for the purpose of authorising the intention. In this Decision, agricultural land and forest protection issues will be newly included in the territory of the national parks. As regards the design authorised under the Construction Act, the JES will be the basis for all these projects, including the so-called reserved buildings, for which the Specialised and Appellate Building Office is responsible. With regard to the issue of public involvement and the retention of public rights in these matters, this regulation actually respects the decisions that were made in 2018, that is to say, the public has access to enter, but really in the spirit that started to apply here after 2018. So much for a brief comment as a representative of the promoter of one part of this joint joint debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Berenika Peštová is reporting with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will take advantage of the presence of the Minister of the Environment or temporarily representing the Ministry of the Environment. I have already told the Minister of Transport, who represented you here, these are the comments that were made in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure from two points of reference - the Confederation of Industry and the Chamber of Commerce. [[He's showing a stack of papers.]] You could say that two thirds of these comments are inconsistent. This means that the conflict continues. I would very much like to ask you, because I know that there will be a comprehensive amendment, that you will invite these points of reference and that you will address these fundamental comments that remain in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-12-14-ps2021-048-02-011-901.u43	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate? As I see no one, I am ending the merged debate. I ask the Minister or the rapporteurs if you want the final word? It's not like that. We will therefore now follow the individual Houses of thousands and I will vote on the proposals tabled. To begin with, I would like to ask and verify, for all three press releases from Mrs Dostálová, the proposal to return the petitioner to work and I would like to ask whether the proposal for an extension of 20 days to 80, which Mr králíček has made, is, therefore, withdrawn by agreement of all the members of the club and the petitioners for themselves? That's right, okay. In that case, we will only vote on an extension of 20 days. I also note the merger of the Guarantee Committee to the Committee on Public Administration and the extension of discussions within the Committee on Economic Affairs. So I'm opening it back up.
