ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u1	110. Proposal by Members of Marek Benda, Marek Výborný, Jan Jakob, Josef Cogan and Jakub Michálek to issue a law amending Act No. 234/2014 Sb., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 215/ - 3rd reading We're at the third reading. I ask that Mr Marek Benda and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, take the position on the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 215/3, which was delivered on 13 July this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 215/4. Do I now ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? It's not like that. I am therefore opening up a debate in which Mrs Dostálová and Mrs Lesenská are joined. I will now ask Mrs Dostálová in the debate with her speech. Please, madam, you have the floor. [[Questions from the diaper.]] No, when we're at the third reading, it's just the petitioner. Please. Well, we've made that clear, and the honourable Member may speak now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the third reading of such a problem proposal, because it is not a government proposal, it is a parliamentary proposal. And I really believe that this amendment to the law, when it comes to the Civil Service Act, is about many, indeed dozens of hundreds, thousands of civil servants, should be prepared by the government, there should be a proper inter-representation process, the Government's Legislative Council should deal with it. [[13.10 hours]] I still cannot accept what has been said here in the first and second reading that it is not necessary to discuss the law which is actually subject to the European Commission's use of European funds. The European Commission has been pursuing three objectives since the beginning of this law. The first is depoliticization of the system, the second is professionalization and stabilization. And I'm afraid that as we all actually read the proposal today, unfortunately, it doesn't meet either of those criteria. I'll be very, very specific. It's just that the whole system is about the fact that the deputy professors will cease to exist, instead they'll be the head directors of the section. But I agree with the idea that the minister should have a certain team of people coming to the ministry with him, helping him in his agenda. But I absolutely cannot accept that we have an unlimited number of political representatives. That is not possible, an unlimited number, nowadays, especially since in all the programme statements of the current coalition, we want to reduce the administrative burden, that we want to make the whole system cheaper. I, if I overdo it, of course, will always depend on the state budget, but if the state budget is in the hands of one government, then of course, any number of political representatives will be approved. And what brings me a little to the boil, I apologize for the expression, is that we've put in the law even more pleasures for these political deputies, which means two cars, secretary. But what's so shocking about me from the point of view of executive when I was there for four years, the political deputy isn't driving anybody. He doesn't have a civil servant under him. Those civil servants will have under them the senior directors of the section and, of course, they are responsible to the Secretary of State. That means the political deputy is a man who will certainly be a partner of the Minister, I agree with that, I have no problem with that, but why unlimited? So if this is really meant to be a co-worker of the Minister to help him with the agenda, well, what we're going to say to each other, the Minister needs to represent the government - one, sometimes to represent within Parliament - the second political deputy, sometimes to represent within the Senate - the third political deputy, well, and sometimes to represent the institutions of the European Union - the fourth political deputy. Four. We proposed because we wanted to be very helpful, so we discussed, and I am glad that under this law the coalition communicated with the opposition, so we suggested: Well, there may still be some specific political deputy for some particular agenda, I can easily imagine an IT agenda, because it is such a complex matter, so we suggested five. We were even friendly because I said: Well, the Minister may still think that every section where he has the Chief Executive needs someone to oversee the agenda as such, although he can't manage anyone, but he can oversee it, so we proposed an amendment, and you have it, of course, tabled, the amendment, into the number of directors of the sections. This means that there are large ministries such as finance, which maybe have seven sections, and in contrast, the Ministry of Culture, which may have only four sections, is just different, and according to that would be the number of political representatives. Unfortunately, I am afraid that, given that the Coalition MEPs have given negative opinions on the committees, that we are going to get away with an unlimited number of political representatives today, with huge prebends and a huge impact on the state budget. Another thing that really saddens me is that we have also dealt with the fact that, as it will be done, we have not succeeded in enforcing these people's statutory clearances. Sure, I had to accept the argument, and it's logical that every minister should insist that his deputy have clearances, but it's not due to the law. If it doesn't last, of course we'll never make it. What is another surprise for me and for me is that when I take the idea that we want stabilisation, what the European Commission wanted - depoliticisation, professionalisation, stabilisation - so if I only take the last headline, stabilisation, this proposal, which we have today at third reading, proposes to compete everyone from the level of the union director every five years. Since A has been said, but B has not been said, even though we were talking about the fact that the next amendment is going to be there, that there are some things that are going to change, I ask what will happen if we have essentially half of the ministry - each one every five years. But unfortunately, as B didn't say, we call it business, just for listeners and viewers, these people, when they're in the public service, they overcompete, they don't succeed in the selection process, so they fall because they're still state employees, in the so-called pool. And in that pool, basically, these people are, and all the resorts can reach out to these people when they're announcing another tender. Well, if this guy's inappropriate for a coalition, I don't think he'll ever come out of the pool. That means what's going to happen then? I just want us all to realize that every five years, we're gonna compete half the ministry. Really imagine it at that time. And do you know how the pool is set? When he has practice, the civil servant, within three years, gets three salaries, three to six years - six salaries, six to nine years - nine salaries, over nine years - twelve salaries. And if he's in the pool, that means he's still not being used by the public service, but he's in the pool, then the clerk gets 80 percent of his salary. So imagine the huge impact on the state budget, because of course every five years new and new ones will be coming in. And this pool is not solved by this novel. That's why I think it would really be worth it to think of as a whole, because we all know that the Civil Service Act certainly deserves some changes, there is no dispute about that. But when you say aA," you really have to be able to say "B." I am very pleased that we have been able to agree on committees, for example, that the law as you have it today, because we still have it before the amendments are approved, so we have argued very strongly that the practice - and here again I will reflect on the word professionalisation of the state administration - and now imagine that the proposal is that you can document the practice from school. That means I, as a college student, ended up in some twenty-four, twenty-five years of school, I started somewhere to work - and now I'm gonna overdo it - I was a manager for a year, for example within - I don't know - providing building savings or something, and basically this annual practice after school would justify me applying for a civil service at my 50's as head of department director's section. Well, that's unacceptable. If we're talking about professionalism here, it has to be people - and we really want to think about it with the state administration - forging in the field, and not someone, all of a sudden, we need to get those people into the ministry for some different things. [[♪ Who's ……]] However, I am glad that the coalition has listened to us in this, supported us, and also from committees it goes with a positive opinion. Of course, I would very much like the House to face these amendments, where we agreed that at least the practice has to be in the last 15 years, so that they are really people who have demonstrated themselves through some managerial experience over the past 15 years. We are, when we're dealing with this whole thing, on the other hand, I have to say that there are positive things, I just don't like to criticize. It must be said that, for example, the exclusion of competitions from administrative procedures is certainly the way in the right direction, because it will speed up the whole system. The deadlines for completing the selection procedure from 90 to 60 days are also being shortened. What I consider also quite good is that it will be necessary to demonstrate citizenship and knowledge of languages immediately when submitting the application, which could have been supplemented later, which, of course, stretched out the selection procedures. Expert knowledge and skills must also be demonstrated when submitting applications. [[13.20 hours]] I would probably lead a bit of controversy over the fact that a substitute term for an interview for apologized applicants only with the approval of the Service Authority. When there were earlier selection procedures, who properly apologized, because the disease really can meet each of us, all these duly apologized candidates had to be given a replacement term. Now, with the approval of the Service Authority. As for the specific other things that we would very much like to welcome, or at least I would like to call on the House, the coalition, to deal with this in the novel, which, as they say, they are planning, is that we should try to take the whole system further away. You're proposing here - every five years everyone from the head of the department will compete, that is, the head of the department, the head of the section, the secretary of state, the personnel director... That's how it's all written. But what if the minister is happy with the way he works, with his qualities? Why do we have to spend the administrative costs, the money of the state budget, for having to make a paper tender with everything, even though we know that this person is working with us, that his qualities are really good? We dealt with this on the committee, and it would really be worth it here, even in the Service Act, to get into the Civil Service Act - and now take me in quotation marks - the vending machine, such as school directors. There are a lot of local politicians here, and you know that if you don't announce a tender for the director, then of course it's automatically prolonged, you're happy with him, so why would you spend money on the municipal budget for selection procedures? And this is what I think should get into the Civil Service Act. I mean, when we're talking about depolitics, we're not talking about who's wearing a T-shirt, but we're talking about who's quality. And of course, it could be a person who came in under that or that rule. But if he's a good man, then this man should stay in the service - and it's in the interests of all of us. In the other amendments that we have tabled, we have discussed, as I have already said, the practice, that is, the practice must be in the last 15 years, in order to actually ensure the professionalisation of the state administration. Then we submitted that the tender was originally there, that everything had to be done by the resorts within 18 months, but if you imagine the number of people who were actually obliged, because unfortunately the vending machine didn't happen, they had to compete, so I'm glad that the committee supported the proposal to at least extend it for 24 months, so that the state secretary and his team wouldn't go completely crazy to make it through the legal deadlines. The amendment under number 1023 concerns precisely the limitation of those political representatives to the level of the sections. I think it's self-consciousness, because each resort can have a different number. But please, too much again, consider the unlimited number of political representatives. I'm sure that's not a good signal to the public. That's the word of the political deputy and so on. I think that any minister would be satisfied with the number of sections, but I honestly think that a proposal under number 1024, where there are only five, would help. There's two of them in the law today. Five of them would be new. And, as I say, from the logic of the matter, the political deputy is to represent a member of the government in the event of his absence. Where does the political deputy represent him? In the government, in the House, in the Senate, in front of the institutions of the European Union, and in addition to one, if he needs help in the field of IT or in some specific matter. It might still be worth it, of course, there are other things that are in the transitional provisions, but I believe that these amendments will go through so that at least a little bit of the law will admit some changes that benefit - and I repeat - to the benefit of the three passwords, such as depoliticisation, stabilisation and professionalisation of the state administration. If there was no longer an inter-resorative commentary procedure, let us at least promise ourselves in the future that the next amendment that will be coming will be in close cooperation with the coalition-reposition. We're not the ones who don't understand the government, we've been in executive employment for four years, we've got a lot of good incentives. And I have to say that there were also a lot of good incentives on the Constitutional and Legal Committee to actually include it in the amendment, that it would be cooperation across the ministries. Well, that's a nice thing to say, but it's harder to do because we all have to realize that the department's statutory representative is the minister. Jen and only the Minister. There is no longer a so-called first deputy who could represent the minister with everything. And then, of course, it's nice to say that the resorts are supposed to cooperate, one resort will say it, the other resort will say it - which minister will then determine whether the clerk or the clerk is right? So, of course, there's a lot going on in the government about what we're gonna talk about. Neshvar of so-called reporters at individual ministries is insane. When you see the signatures, as everyone, of course, rightly worries about their responsibility, and again, in the finals, only the minister as the statutory body is responsible for everything. I think I'm gonna quit at this point. Once again, I would just like to appeal to support the amendments. I certainly thank you, if the coalition's position, such as that of the committee, is maintained for at least the practice, at least the extension of the deadline for the selection procedure, the fiction of delivery, just all these proposals that the opposition has made. But again, please, really, really, really please consider the political deputy. We're not sending a good signal these days. Surely the Minister will be satisfied with four to eight according to the size of the sections, an amendment under 1023, or, of course, five political representatives, as I have already said, according to the agenda, an amendment under 1024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u3	Thank you. Mrs Lesenská is now registered, followed by Mrs Válková - [[The rapporteur, Mrs Ožanová, is strongly reporting the floor.]] I didn't notice you were applying, I'm sorry. The rapporteur has, of course, priority rights, so you can step forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u4	Thank you. I just have to say, Madam President, that you have not noticed for the second time that I am reporting with the priority right of the rapporteur, I have already applied before Mrs Dostálová. I will not now object to the President's maladministration, but it would be advisable to see if the rapporteur would like to make a point when he has a priority right. [[President Pekar: I'm sorry again.]] Now to the point itself. We are discussing the proposal made by the presidents of coalition clubs. I have already said last time when we discussed at first reading that, after all, the government's programming statement, which notabene referred to yesterday in her intelligence report, which I thought was absurd, but I did not come forward, states that everything should be government proposals. I understand that they agreed on this, but I still believe that this law should have passed the standard legislative route precisely because there are some things that would have been worthwhile to go through the inter-ministerial proceedings. But I have already talked long about this, and I think it would be good not only for us opposition Members to read the government's programming statement, but also for you to read it. That wouldn't be bad. The notes I took. On the constitutional-legal committee, the debate was very constructive, because there was also negotiations between the coalition and the opposition, where the positions were clarified and there was no need to further argue that we were on which side. So I also want to thank Mrs. Dostálová for the negotiations. Of course, we hoped that more of our amendments would be adopted. [[13.30 hours]] At the meeting of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, a request was made for the possible division of the amendment of Mr Ivan Adamec into two proposals. It sounded from my colleague Michálek. I'm not really going to comment on this at this point. We have agreed that if Mr Michálek insists on this, he will speak in the general debate, and then I will read the legislative technical regulation that the House legislation has drawn up in order to comply with this request for a change to the voting procedure. I am merely saying that if Mr Michálek comes forward, he will be interested in a separate F-point vote that he will be granted, i.e. he will be granted - it will depend on the House, but I will support this by reading legislative technical amendments. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna take a look at the notes. There was still a minor debate, and I would like you to consider whether you will support or not to support the amendment, the main carrier of which was Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková. It was a proposal that the state service be able to leave until 75 years of age instead of the current 70. Of course it is a very quivering topic, however not for everyone it is to last until 70 years, some people want to retire already in 60. But there are really people active, capable, even doctors who may be operating at this age. I believe that if a person is so skilled and able to perform the work that the obstacle should not be 70 years old, but 75 years old. I believe that many of us, too, know people who are over 70 years old, are in this House and are of much greater benefit to this plenary than many significantly younger colleagues. So I think it would still deserve attention if you did not consider supporting this amendment after all. Another problem with this law is that I listened to the Minister of Finance, as he said about reducing the number of officials, constantly, especially with the state budget. I don't know if it's against the law that you put forward because you're increasing the number of management positions in your own way, and where are you going to reduce the number of officials? The really powerful ones? The ones who give the shots? On the one hand, you will increase the number of management positions for large salaries with large benefits, but you want to reduce the number of officials! As a colleague of mine told me how he understood it, I'll take it, but please, I'm a technician. And just for me, the numbers are pretty clear. There's gonna be an increase. Where to get it? Only those who actually perform that function have to deal with the applicants and deal with the agendas. Is that where you want to take it? I thought reorganizing the business when I had a problem is that I'm trying to reduce the number of managerial functions and rationalise, not increase the number of managerial functions. So I really don't imagine rationalizing the state administration. I must remind you that we have two more ministers and what, 74 more jobs! So I'm still looking for where the reduction is, as Minister Stanjura said. I just don't see it, and math is kind of a relentless thing. It's just 74 isn't equal to zero, and there's no minus sign in front of it. It's also going to be a plus here. It's not going to be a minus sign. Communication with the opposition - here's a note. Here I would like to repeat my thanks, as I have already said. As regards the transitional provisions, there is a requirement for recompetitiveness within 18 months of the application of this Act. But under the agreement, as far as I know, it goes for 24 months, although I believe some will be in a hurry. So the sentence of the explanatory memorandum, which I would like to quote, will not be fulfilled: "In the case of the occupation of the post of head of service office, head of section or head of section, staff director of the Civil Service Section and director of the department in accordance with the proposed law, it is not about overcompetence." That's an interesting sentence, please, and I'm wondering if you've been trying to see if we can read. What's the point if it's not a cross-compete? I beg you, this is a general re-competitive situation, and at the moment, when we have, forgive me, a lot more serious topics than re-competitive officials, I don't think there was any reason to rush this press, which really got to the third reading in a record short time. At this point, everything for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. And I'm just saying hello to everyone. I understand that Mrs Berenika Peštová wants to make a point of fact, but I will read the apologies that are in the meantime five. As of 13:30, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes for family reasons, Mr Martin Kolovratník from 13:00 to 14:00 for work reasons, Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová from 13:30 for family reasons, Mr Petr Sadovský from 12:00 for health reasons and Mr Antonín Tesařík from 13:30 for work reasons. That would be all the apologies we've got so far. And please, Madame, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u6	I would like to follow up on my previous speaker, Zuzka Ožanová, through Madam President. I don't know if - it's already here, Members. In any case, if you've reflected it, it's really this law, as far as interdepartmental commentary proceedings are concerned, it just wasn't in the proper interdepartmental commentary procedure. I've mentioned it several times. This law left out, in essence, where it was supposed to go, that is to say, the regions, for example, organisations which are organisations of individual ministries that could not comment on it, could not make substantial comments. And I get it! That's why it went in the short-cut, basically, interdepartmental commentary procedure, with regard to the individual institutions that were supposed to be affected, and the time that was there, because you knew very well that if you put it in the interreort, it would come back completely torn. Totally torn. And you won't be able to deal with anything. That's one thing. And the second thing that puzzles me is the time you give this law so much weight. What a weight! We are currently dealing with an energy crisis. Energy crisis! Where are the laws that you would push like this law, where you say you're trying to deagrofertize individual ministries? And yet your people are standing in front of the gates waiting for places to sit there! What is this, this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u7	Thank you for keeping time, and this contribution has raised another factual point, namely President Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u8	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to me that there will be no more voting today within the 14 hours, so I will not forgive myself for some of these arguments. Mrs Peštová, through Madam President: this bill was put forward properly, Members do not go into any commentary proceedings, do not have any... We explained it here at first and second reading, in my opinion, for a long time and enough, including the fact that I said fair and squarely: It is clear to me that all officials would oppose it if we told them that once every five years they should compete, that it is surprising, but that they should not sit there forever and ever. And the second point about this is that we're not speeding things up again. Let's not forget that we've just spent two and a half hours here having a great discussion about waterboats. Before that, there were two hours of beautiful performance by the Prime Minister, which he should have in court rather than here. Nobody took anything from him, no one took a discussion about waterboats. We just normally came on a public service show, and I hope we can approve it sometime in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u9	Thank you for keeping time, and it is no surprise that this contribution brought about another factual one. Mrs Peštová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u10	Well, I'm gonna make a mistake, Mr. Ambassador, but who put it in the inter-reort for that one day? It was the Home Office. The Home Office that put it in eklep, and when they found out it was gonna be a big bang, they took it out of the eklep, and then they caught it in our gay MPs and brought it here. So that's the whole history of this law. Yes, it was there, Mr President, it was, it was, it was, it really was, but it was really there for a few hours and it was withdrawn. [[13.40 hours]] But if it stayed there, then I wouldn't have a problem with it. We all know that we have a legislative plan for work. Each ministry has a legislative plan of work, or the government has a legislative plan of work. And that law wasn't there. This law was not in the plan to work among the laws to be drawn up. This law was simply enforced by force. So if we're gonna pour pure wine, we're gonna pour it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u11	Thank you for keeping time. With a factual remark from the rapporteur. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would like to read: "The legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration will be submitted by standard legislative means and experts within the Government Legislative Council will comment on them before submitting them to the Government." A quote from the government's programming statement. Let me draw your attention to one more thing. The amendment to the Staff Act is included in the Government's programming declaration, i.e. a matter from the Government's programming declaration. And according to what you wrote yourself in your government's programming statement, this was supposed to go as standard as a government proposal and go through a comprehensive legislative path so that everyone could comment on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u13	Thank you for keeping time. And once again, with a point of fact, President Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, by your means, to Mrs Peštová - so the proposal, we know it, we know it, of course, can also be submitted by Members, in this case by representatives of all the Members' clubs. The fact that, as you mention it, it was withdrawn was for one reason only that the government discussed it very quickly, gave a clear opinion and sent a bill to the House. If we were in such a hurry, as you say, that was the first point in the third reading block today. And we all saw he wasn't. It remained in the order as it remained recorded. And as far as the legislative plan for government work is concerned, we all know, and so do you, it's not a mantra. That's some kind of foundation, a penny of what the government has set itself. Of course, the joys and worries of everyday days will bring something that needs to be dealt with beyond the legislative plan of the government's work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u15	Thank you. I will just ask to be addressed by my Presidency. And please, Mrs. Mrs. Pešto, it's probably okay, Mrs. Peštová and then Mrs. Ožanová. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u16	Mr Excellent, through Madam President, the reason for this is completely different. When it's submitted by the Ministry, there must be a processed explanatory report, RIA, an impact study that you've always been here, or that it's always standing on and falling on. That is precisely the problem where the RIA Members need not have their RIA processed. And that's why, in its nature, it was downloaded from eKLEP because you'd run into the RIA. The RIA wasn't processed. And those are the costs that will be associated with it. That is, if you're going to compete with certain positions from the directors upstairs, because you actually want to touch all the directors, not only the ministries, but also at individual resorts, I've even heard that you're already sharpening your teeth at the county authorities. But in any case, at that particular moment, that person, and that was said here, will fall into the pool. And those are the costs that will arise there. And they won't be small. That's gonna cost a lot, 'cause he's gonna be in that pool for six months, and it's actually his duty to find another job. There are judicatures here. I am sure that Mr Benda will complete me, because he certainly knows the case-laws, through Madam President. Because these people are basically hard-employable, so they actually cost you by being in that pool. And then they get the severance package. So these are the incredible costs that you're going to incur there. That's why this impact study, the RIA that isn't processed, would handle this because the MPs took it and brought it here. If it was the Ministry, then you have to go through the Government Legislative Council, you have to go to those committees, to the RIA committee, where all this would be blamed for you, that it is underworked, that you have to redo, add and so on. That is why you have taken advantage of the possibility that Members do not have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u17	Time. Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, President Marek Benda, then the rapporteur with a point of fact, and then we still have a duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u18	I hope for the last time today, but I will respond once more to Mrs Peštová. I was surprised by the fact that every civil servant who is not kept in his place is hard to employ. I felt the other way around. She's been here all along defending how genius people are at their posts. And today he's gonna say, "They're really hard at work." Even in the market, they will probably be hard-employable. That makes it sound like a yes. That's the first thesis. The second thesis - it was submitted as a parliamentary proposal. I was merely pointing out that if this was ever put into the positions of the ministries, the parliamentary proposal is not going through this. And it was so that when the proposal was submitted, the Prime Minister, not the Minister of the Interior, asked the ministries for an opinion. And since the government decided that it wanted to comment on the bill at its first meeting immediately, so that the bill could continue, it was taken back. But it was never submitted as a proposal by the Ministry of the Interior or any other ministry, it was always a parliamentary proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, the rapporteur has the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u20	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, I will have to comment on what Mr Výborný, President of the KDU-ČSL Club, said. I'll take the data. The bill sent out to Members 13. 5. 2022. Government Opinion 18. 5. 2022. The government's position was five days after the announcement! And 1. 6. - less than 15 days after - we have already discussed this bill in plenary. Then why aren't you in a hurry? You're in a hurry! This really isn't standard. And really trying to speed it up is quite obvious here. And I'm just reminding you again, read your government's programming statement. I understand you wanted to change the Civil Service Act. That's completely legitimate. However, what you have in the government's programming statement, you have declared that it will only go through the standard legislative path. Please, let's put things exactly. And otherwise, of course, you will find these data when you go to the House press, so you all have all the data I have read at your disposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u21	Thank you for keeping time. And now the final factual point is in order, namely, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u22	I would like to respond to Mr Benda, through Madam President. Of course, I said hard to employ, but within those ministries. I don't think we understood each other. I don't think those people can get a place in the open market. No way. But by being a director, the position is already high, so within the various ministries, as they are in the pool, so actually, there are different ministries for them. So I'm saying that they're hard to employ within individual ministries, but not that they can't get a place in the private sector. On the contrary. The problem is that you, under the flag of deagrofertization, throw out basically people who are well-founded and very capable, but they get into the private sector, and they won't come back to those ministries. That's another problem. And you all need to know who you had to do with the various ministries that there really is a shortage of people. And on the other hand, we would have - no, I'm not saying pamper - but we're trying to keep these people because they're really language equipment, they're experts. And now comes the moment when we get into the private sector. And why would they come back to us if they got, like, a half, maybe a double salary? They're not going back. But we're left with political deputys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u23	Thank you for keeping time. And we are going back to the proper debate, to the general debate where Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská is signed up, and then Mrs Helena Válková can prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government... I don't know where they are, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Let me also comment here on the amendment of the Civil Service Act and in a way give you the opinion of our club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u25	I dare say the Minister is sitting in the back, circling the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u26	I'm sorry, I took my glasses off remotely because I don't need them for reading, so I'm sorry. The current members of the government coalition have called many times in the past for politicisation of the state administration. Among other things, this was also a condition of the European Commission, which called for depoliticisation, professional and stable government. However, I think that the proposal, as it was put forward, is rather a step backwards. I find no advantage in the unlimited number of political deputy ministers and the abolition of the positions of so-called specialised representatives. It seems to me that it is actually in practice a kind of promotion of the minister's advisors to the posts of deputy ministers with appropriate salaries and with other benefits and benefits. But these deputies will have no responsibility. So why? So, in fact, the ministry will humiliate the existing deputy professors into section heads, and they will then represent the minister in the meeting, even in the House? Or will it be the political vice presidents who won't know the specific professional agendas again? Let's see what comes out of it in practice. So there's another question for me, which one of these positions, actually? Political Deputy, or the head of the section will be directing individual state authorities? And what level would that be? How will systems be changed in individual offices, and what will this involve organized and financially? This was not entirely answered by the petitioners when discussing this amendment. Will they have to change the organizational charts not only for the ministries, but also for the other state authorities? So, in order to actually introduce the position of political deputy, you were discussing where the change of the law would end up? In addition, the proposal newly introduces a five-year term of office from the Director of the Higher Division. It will not have much benefit for continuity and stability. In fact, you're going to exchange almost one-time the entire management garniture of the authorities and you're going to want to change it every five years. Before I was elected to this position, I worked as Director of the Department of Labour at the district level. Yes, I too will be concerned with this amendment of the law. I don't know if I'm in any kind of conflict of interest here. However, on the one hand, it's nice that the directors won't be sure, the lifelong assurance of the performance of their duties. But on the other hand, can you imagine how long it takes to build a professional position in which region for entrepreneurs, businessmen, secondary schools, elementary schools, regional authorities, ORP offices to take you as a partner? I don't know if you've ever tried on. And I can tell you that's not a question of one or two days. Existing workers will be able to apply again and repeatedly for tenders. But is it really necessary to organise selection procedures every five years when the supervisor is satisfied with the performance of his subordinate executive? Why, in this case, wasn't there the possibility of an example of a so-called vending machine, as it is used in some other areas, such as school directors? The only positive thing in this proposal at this point is that selection procedures according to proposals will allow faster input from outside experts. However, I cannot agree that professional practice should be counted since the completion of the required education, and it has been added up all this time. If our aim is to increase the expertise of civil service workers, it is necessary for this professional practice to be as topical as possible. Therefore, I very much agree, and I ask for the support of the amendment, which now determines this year for 15 years. Since the practice completed, for example, 20 years ago, when a candidate has not worked in the field since then, he certainly cannot cope with the practice, for example, in the last five years. And so it's a time when this particular person knows the topicality of the terrain and the modern agenda. What do I see as the next problem of the proposal? The current management staff shall be appointed by decision for an indefinite period of time, as well as their service for an indefinite period of time. The new appointments will be for a fixed period, although the service will be for an indefinite period. So these executives are going to lose a certain degree of legal certainty. How they will handle it, if these workers resist in any way, we will see it. And what will that mean in practice? It's the pool that's been named here many times. A worker who does not defend his post will remain in the public service and will be looking for another position for him for up to six months, for which he will receive 80 per cent of his current salary. And if he doesn't find a suitable place for him, he'll be leaving the government, whether he's an expert or maybe he's not, and he'll be getting a lot of severance from the state. This unfortunate wording in this proposal will in practice only mean increasing the number of people in the civil service that the state will pay. Unfortunately, I didn't find any quantifications that would then be required for the state budget. I believe that we will certainly not increase the quality of executives at state offices in this way, only to take away from them the kind of certainty they now have. Therefore, the SPD will vote against the adoption of this law as submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u27	Thank you, Madame. And now she has a genuine interest in speaking again - just to point out that at 14:00 there is an agreement that we will be done - Mrs Berenika Peštová, therefore, can use the remaining minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u28	That will be quick, Mr Member, through Madam President. [[Objection in the O.R. that he's performing again.]] Fifth - but I can definitely have unlimited, can't I? I just wanted to ask if the next year's budget is being prepared, and if you're already counting on how much you're going to pay the individual employees you're going to have to pay. If that's what he's counting on in those budgets. If any of the ministers come out here and say, "Yes, I've allocated so much and so much." So we can have an idea of what kind of change you're counting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-09-09-ps2021-035-04-005-110.u29	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology in the meantime. Mr Kubík apologizes from 13.45 pm for work reasons. Since it is 14 o'clock, under the agreement, I am interrupting this 35th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Tuesday, 27 September, at 14 o'clock. Have a quiet rest of the day and a quiet weekend.
