ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended / House print 205/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Minister, come take the floor. Please, Minister, please state the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u2	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I will take a rather short opening call. Let's see what the debate on this proposal will be like. The proposal is actually simple. In response to the Russian aggression that Vladimír Putin unleashed in Ukraine, oil prices and oil products have increased in world markets. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Let's not be alarmed, I agree, let's not be alarmed. Thank you. The government has taken a set of measures to mitigate the impact on Czech citizens and Czech companies. I will remind you of one which is not subject to legislation, but is the decision of the Minister of Finance. In agreement with the representatives of the carriers, I decided that taxes, VAT, do not have to be paid until October 25th. It will be at the specific discretion of any company operating transport. The company is identified by the fact that transport sales account for more than 50 percent of this company's sales. This is one of the measures to improve cash flow. The other four measures are the content of these two bills, the House press 205, which we are discussing now, and then the House press 204, which is today's second point. In this proposal, which, on behalf of the Government, I am asking for your approval in the first reading under Section 90 paragraph. 2, we propose to reduce the excise duty on diesel by CZK 1.50 per litre and also by CZK 1.50 to reduce the excise duty on unleaded petrol for the period from 1 June to 30 September 2022. The projected state budget blackout, which is actually a savings on the part of citizens and companies, amounts to approximately 4 billion. And as you know, this excise tax is 9,1% firmly bound as the income of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and the other 90.9 percent is the income of the state budget, so at this exact ratio, the impact on the state budget or state funds will be divided. [[17.40 hours]] At the same time, I say that the government will match the money to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. So, yes, according to the law, it will have an impact on the state budget as well as on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. But since we do not want to reduce the volume of investment in transport infrastructure, the government will send 9.1% from other sources to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. So many of my brief opening words. Let me repeat: because the efficiency is due from 1 June, so on behalf of the government, I am asking you to approve at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would simply like to add to the Minister, perhaps for the context and for the public debate that is around excise duties in public space, to remind ourselves that from 1 January 2021 the rate for diesel has been reduced by 1 crown. This means that, once again, this decision brought us closer to the minimum rate set by the General Council Directive on the fixing of excise duties. I am saying this here because when we compare reductions in excise taxes in individual countries, in other countries they often come from a higher base than in the Czech Republic. That is why I am just mentioning this for the context of our public debate. The second point to this proposal is that, of course, the amount of excise duty enters the basis of the calculation of value added tax, so the resulting effect on the VAT price, which means for citizens, could be higher than the declared CZK 1.50 per litre, up to CZK 1.80 per litre. Of course, no one can predict today how the price of oil will develop on the world markets, but I just wanted to complete the presentation of the Minister, or his opening words on this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u5	Thank you, too. I am now opening a general debate. President Schillerová shall report with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our movement has been at this point for several months, including today, stressing the long-term unsustainable situation in the Czech Republic, when consumer prices have increased in history. I will just briefly repeat - I have already said this today - that the consumer price index in the Czech Republic reached a year-on-year increase of 12.7 percent in March 2022, which is 1.6 percentage points more than in February. As a result of such high inflation in the Czech household, the decline in real monthly wages in 2022 is forecasted to be up to 7 percent. In the second quarter of this year, the decline could be at least 10 percent. Let me remind you that yesterday's published consumer confidence in the economy for April 2022 has been the lowest since 2012 in the amount of 81.3. The draft of the Consumer Tax Act, which has now been presented by the Minister, the five-calice for the first time ever across... This is the first and only area measure so far to respond to the energy crisis and fuel crisis in line with the model of most European countries. The increase in fuel prices, which has been escalated - of course I admit it - by the invasion of the armed forces of the Russian Federation on the territory of Ukraine, affects not only the citizens of the Czech Republic but the entire supply sector. Our movement has repeatedly pointed out the current crisis situation and stressed that it is impossible not to take the measures that are being applied in the vast majority of the European Union countries. At a number of sittings of the Chamber of Deputies, including today, I have discussed and stressed that the countries of the European Union are taking measures that have a real effect and reduce pressure on the wallets of the citizens of each country. As an inspiration, I introduced Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Germany, as well as the UK and others - about twenty-four of them - whose governments are taking significant responses to the energy crisis. I stressed that the Czech Government could have inspired itself with these foreign experiences. Our proposals were based on the assumption that public budgets would choose significantly more as a result of increased inflation for tax collection. Compared to our last government draft budget, the Cabinet of Petr Fiala has tens of billions of extra tax revenue forecasts. If I remember correctly, according to the latest macroeconomic prediction, it was 70 billion. These are not chosen from the vacuum, but are obtained from the collection of Czech citizens. Therefore, our aim was not to reduce the overall revenues of public budgets, but not to increase them nominally. But the five-wheelers did not want to admit that, and they do not want to do so. While the proposed reduction in excise duties is the right step, this step is too late and inadequate. Propulsion is burdened with two taxes in the Czech Republic - indeed, the rapporteur said so here - excise and value added tax. The excise duty on each litre of petrol is about CZK 12.84 and CZK 9.95 for diesel, i.e. after the proposed reduction of the excise duty of 1.50 it will constantly obtain 11.34 for each litre of petrol and 8.45 for diesel plus another 21 percent for value added tax, calculated on the basis of the current amount of fuel prices, which is still high above its long-term average. I would like to predict that, by reducing excise duty, the State will not return to citizens the part that it has obtained for higher VAT collection as a result of the rise in fuel prices. Moreover, the launch of this measure is only planned from the beginning of June 2022, which I do not understand, because basically in the media space this information has been around for more than a month. So, until then, the state will be taking a cheerful collection of these taxes and, in fact, when it comes to June 1st - because we will certainly not hold it back - to a reduction. As the carriers deal with the situation, the question remains, because we, on the contrary, have information - I too have received a letter - that it is not answered promptly by the calls of carriers who complain in mass that they are unable to survive a significant increase in fuel prices for more than weeks. My colleague, Mrs Berenika Peštová, also spoke about this in the context of loading new points. A few weeks ago, the association of carriers Česmad estimated that on one litre of diesel truck companies lost 6 to 7 crowns. In fact, carriers have to drive at previously contracted prices, and they cannot project the price increases to their customers and thus pass on the burden on their customers. So, dear colleagues and colleagues, the crown of fifty isn't really going to help them. In addition, I would like to emphasise at this point that fuel prices will significantly translate into an increase in the entire price level. We have reports from the directors of logistics companies that they are in big economic trouble, some on the verge of bankruptcy, and that if they do not receive more forceful assistance from the state, these companies cannot survive in the long term. Our movement has submitted a proposal - in the end, I have asked for his solid inclusion here today, it has been rejected by this Chamber of Deputies - a proposal to reduce VAT on fuel to zero. This decrease would be reflected in the prices of diesel and petrol in principle. It would be felt by all citizens of the Czech Republic, and also by those who regularly drive their car, for example for their work, and also by those who do not own a passenger car, because this step would slow down at least in part the growth of logistics prices, and consequently the increase in prices of goods on counters in shops. Moreover, this measure is appropriate due to the current reduction in labour mobility in the Czech Republic, which, in addition to the government's lack of willingness to address fuel prices, is also due to the increase in public public transport prices, which is, of course, part of this policy. [[17.50 hours]] Indeed, the crown of fifty is only symbolic of the total aid received by the government as a marketing instrument and which will not have a real impact. With the full impact of the reduction in excise duty on fuel prices, the savings on fuel prices will be slightly over 3% of the total price. This will not be felt by most consumers in the dynamic development of fuel prices. Moreover, Minister - I can probably address you directly - I know that you have been warned that the tax reduction will be divided between the taxpayer and the taxpayer, so the overall price reduction on the consumer side will be significantly lower than declared in official output. Moreover, with such a low reduction in excise duty on fuel, the relevant question arises over the economic efficiency of the necessary controls that this reduction will require. I must also point out, and it has been said here that the reduction of excise taxes, which has also been granted by the Minister, is fair to say, in his speech, going to have fiscal impacts on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure in addition to the impact on the state budget. The Minister has made a commitment here that this will be offset from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure from other sources. Should it be about 5 billion by the notes I have here, or how much is it? [[Minister Stanjura's response.]] 900 million, sorry, I added that from the road tax. I'm sorry, okay. Then perhaps, Minister, you will be able to get off - if you would state what will be added to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. You're right, from road taxes, that would be that amount. That's what we're going to say at the next point. We give you the truth when, with the fact that this is indeed the first area measure, or a step in the right direction, it has come late, it is insufficient and it is very short-term, so I note that in a detailed debate I will read an amendment that will shift efficiency - I have consulted Parliament's legislation that this is possible - i.e. it will shift efficiency, it will adjust the effectiveness in accordance with § 90 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies instead of 1 October 2022 on 1 January 2023, so that, at least when this lack of action is introduced, it will take some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u7	Thank you. I've got applications here now with priority rights. First, then, the Minister - here I need to agree - Stanjura, then Minister Kupka, then the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u8	Thank you for the floor. I've heard those economic fairy tales before today. Yes, we have the third highest inflation within the European Union. The culprit is the last government, and as Mrs Schillerová said, their movement. Because, if you look, and by coincidence, Eurostat also published this last week when comparing the debt ratio in 2021 and 2020 between European countries, we are inevitably in the first place. In other words, we have done the worst in all the countries of the European Union. And when you compare the two tables, all six countries that had a higher debt ratio in 2021 than in 2020 are among the ten countries with the highest inflation rate. He who does not see this connection either does not understand it or does not tell the truth. So complaining about high inflation by those who caused it is at least hypocritical if I choose mild words. President Schillerová was just saying how little it was for the carriers, and then she said she was proposing VAT zero. But it is nothing to carriers, carriers are VAT payers in the vast majority, so some VAT adjustment means nothing to them and does not help them at all in their business. I just want to remind you that for every 10 billion, and what Mr Babiš has presented, I think former Minister Maláčová would never have allowed it, that is roughly an axe this year 230 to 250 billion above the planned deficit, all those measures. For every 10 billion, we're going to pay at least 340, maybe 350 million interest from next year, and that's net mandatorial spending, which goes to the bottom of the management of past governments. I remind you of 820 billion in the last two years. Who doesn't want to trust government politicians to read the SAO's report or Eurostat's statistics. Here is the main reason that we have about 4 percent higher inflation than the average in the European Union, where it was 7.8 - there is a little different statistics, so Eurostat is a different value than the Czech Statistical Office says. I will be based on this Czech, and if we compare European countries, we will come from this comparison to Eurostat. And now let's say what does he do with inflation and prices of temporary VAT zeroing? Yes, it will reduce the price by 21 percent, if we are optimistic, so it will reflect, but let's not speculate, 21 percent, and it will certainly have a positive effect on inflation. What's it going to do, plus 21 percent to the price, there's definitely going to be a positive 21 percent to the price when we return it? Those who suggest it don't say that anymore. This means an increase in price by 21 percent, and it means an increase in inflation after that period, at the cost of tens of billions, and prices - how much is the debt service costing us just now? So what's the effect? Or does any of you assume that the price will return to the pre-war level? Then I guess you're the only ones in Europe. I don't rule it out, I don't know, but I don't have any information to rely on the price of oil and oil products on European markets in a few months to be the same as before February 24, when Putin invaded Ukraine. So the measure is populist, it leads nowhere, it prolongs inflation and actually affects those who are most at risk of inflation, because the economically weakest are, of course, the most affected by inflation. When we compare the individual states, Mrs Schillerová here said Germany. So what did Germany do with excise duty? For three months after the decision, Parliament's approval - it has not yet passed - for three months. We propose four. Yes, there's a legitimate proposal, we're going to vote on it not to be four months, but to make it eight months or seven, you're extending it by three months, so seven. I just want to say that one month is about a billion. Madam President Schillerová says - that's nothing. But otherwise he'll say: 7 billion, it's not enough to say it's nothing. If it's nothing, we wouldn't suggest it, and I don't think you'd even vote for it if it really meant nothing. The government proposal means 4 billion savings for taxpayers, this amendment will mean 7 billion. I'm saying it's legitimate, we're going to vote on it, it's roughly a billion a month. We are at the very limit of the European border with regard to excise duty on diesel, which also represents about two thirds of fuel consumption according to statistics from previous years, so these are not solutions. It's actually driving us to bankruptcy, the measures that the government will take... Ad absurdum we could completely cancel VAT. Yes, it would have a positive effect on price and inflation. What would that do to the state budget? What would that do to the government debt service? And who would pay for that? The same taxpayers again, no one else. The government has no money. So, while the measures sound good, they have no economic sense. As I was saying, we helped in cash flow, we're helping carriers here because VAT doesn't help carriers, we're also helping citizens who are going to gas up, and at that meeting, I'm sure the Minister of Transport will talk about it, I said we'd be watching it. I do not exclude that we will not come up with an extension, but at this point we need to monitor the price on the world markets, especially for diesel I have admitted that this could be a permanent measure, for competitive reasons, especially Poland and Germany - well, the Němec have it for three months, but the Polish carriers have it permanently at the European lowest level, so let us talk about it. As regards the overall taxation of these products, we are in the first third of the countries with the lowest taxation in Europe. If we compare before this measure, that means the current rates, with diesel we have the sixth lowest tax total and with petrol seven, or vice versa, I apologize, but it's the sixth and seventh place, maybe I switched the commodities. This means that we are in a third before this reduction, because some countries have to have VAT even 27 percent, it has to be said for these products. So we always have to tell the whole story. [[18.00 hours]] But we can't fight inflation by pouring more and more money on debt. Can you name me an economist who would support your economic plans? You have unleashed inflation, and your advice is to further increase inflation and keep inflation at such high levels for months and months. It's just not possible. And if you really want to take 250 billion somewhere, it's either on debt or you want to cut something for 250 billion. I don't see the space. And the debt - I told you how much the securities cost today. I have heard President Schillerová's argument that the state has stocked up and bought bonds in time. Well, I have two questions. Was it your decision, through the Vice-President, or the decision of the Ministry of Finance's expert department? And if yours, good. If the decision of the expert department, please do not take credit. And secondly, the sub-supply was really, but it was only about 2021 and after us the Flood. By 2022, no one supplied themselves so much, not so little, not so much, it was simply the year 2021. That was the right step to understand each other, and I'm not criticizing it, just so that someone doesn't use it when they figure out what the cost of new debts are, which according to these proposals, which are not even socialist, are left of former Minister Maláčová. I remember politicians, yes, who until today claim to be right-wing. And when their chairman brings the ultra-left program, everyone's behind him and everybody's repeating how great it is. So what's the deal with your right hand? Answer me the question, what will happen when the transition period is over and VAT will rise back to the level, how will it affect price, and how will it affect inflation? So you're really just suggesting to extend the inflation and owe even more to our country. And the rate of debt, and you can say whatever you want, the rate of debt was the highest in the European Union in the Czech Republic. No question. Well, Mr Nacher nods his head that no, he has better numbers than Eurostat. Well, maybe. So we will propose to Eurostat that we cancel the institution and that Mr Nacher will do it, it will certainly be cheaper. I don't think it's more accurate, but it'll be cheaper without a doubt. You can question things, you can question political agendas, political opinions, but if you start questioning the numbers of the statistical authorities, then it is not worth continuing the debate at all. I didn't order the tablet, I saw it at the same time as you did when it was published. I think the numbers are very clear - 4 billion are not enough, there are 4 billion more in the next press, that's 8 billion. Additional revenue - myth. Additional revenues appeared and the state collects tens of billions of extra taxes. First of all, what came from the January macroprognosis has been included in the budget and is already in the approved budget. A substantial part goes to social policy. This is not free money, it is intended for pensions, it is intended for a housing allowance, it is intended to increase the living and existential minimum, or for all benefits that are due from it. I hear very often that the existential minimum is less than 5,000, but I can't hear anymore, I can't hear the correct information in the debate that none of the Czech citizens understands either the living or the existential minimum, that it's just a number from which the particular dose depends. I think, in order for this debate to be fair, it needs to be said precisely and then we can compare whether it is advantageous or not. I understand the criticism of the opposition - the government does not care about Czech citizens. Well, I don't know how you figured it out. Take the calculator, divide the expenditure of the state budget approved by the number of days - 5.2 billion per day is the expenditure of the state budget - and where are they going? To our citizens and our companies. Or do you feel like they're going somewhere else? 5.2 billion a day. That's 36 billion a week. So I don't understand this rhetoric at all, where would the money end up - where else than with the citizens? According to the new April macroeconomic forecast, which already has the estimated effects of Putinův war in Ukraine, the total tax revenue of the state will increase by 5 billion, in words, five, they are not really in the budget, and we will certainly involve them, but five, not tens. And besides, the 60 billion we've engaged most of them aren't VAT revenue, they're social security revenue. It's in all the background materials in the state budget that we've been discussing together in three readings, so no one can look surprised. And by the way, we're gonna have data in the first four months in a week, where we can already estimate the amount of revenue being spent. So look, when it's published, whether the revenue is above one third, or about one third, or under one third. So it's not true that the state collects tens of billions extra and keeps them somewhere. All additional revenues from January macroprognosis have been involved, mostly in the social area. By the way, we also had to increase the payment for old debts. That's right, I also said that when I was defending the state budget here, and I was saying what we were doing with the money, the extra revenue, what extra expenses we got them for. The second mythical source of income I hear about is the revenue from emission allowances. In other words, last week we recounted the revenue estimates of emission allowances to the state budget for this year - 19 billion. Do you know how much you have in your budget approved? 19 billion. Nineteen without nineteen is zero, that's another additional myth of the additional revenue of the state budget, which we are supposed to send to someone, but there isn't one. So it is not the government's ambition to collect tens and tens of billions extra and not to use them for the benefit of citizens and companies, but there is no such revenue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u9	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points and another performance with priority rights. First of all, Mr Milan Feranec will speak with a factual remark and prepare Patrik Nacher with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will only briefly respond to what the Minister of Finance has said. In the beginning, he said that the deficit, the government's irresponsible management, was responsible for inflation. So let me just remind you, at a time when Babišův's irresponsible government prepared an irresponsible budget in quotes, inflation was, what, 6 percent? I think it's 6 plus minus. 5.8. Thank you. [[Member Schiller of the bench: 5.8.]] Then the responsible government came in, prepared a responsible budget, inflation was supposed to go down, she's twice that. It's just to explain these addictions and concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u11	Thank you. Now Patrik Nacher with his point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm going to respond to the Minister, and then I'm going to say something about the proposal, because I'm logged in, but now it's factual. You said I was supposed to do some of my tables and save money for Eurostat. So I also have a table here from Eurostat that compares government debt to GDP, but not between 2020 and 2021, but 2019 and 2021, which has its ruthless logic, because it compares the year before and after cod. There is some logic to the comparison, because Covid has dealt with it as much as he probably has to deal with the conflict in Ukraine in some way. And from this comparison, while the average of the European Union is that countries have been in debt by more than 15 percentage points between these years, the Czech Republic is below average, and it is 12.4. That means it's on a better average. Yes, it is possible that between 2020 and 2021 these numbers are different, but of course you choose the statistics, the tables that match your arguments. And I'm giving you a comparison here, where it compares to a comparable-- a classic standard time before the covid, and what we're actually taking now is that the covid is kind of going away. And I think that's a comparison that has a clear logic. [[18.10 hours]] And I would like to make one more comment because there was also talk about a number of other things that are not under this amendment. Let me just remind you that maybe you brag about giving 74 billion to citizens when we're talking about these numbers. So from what I can remember, $28 billion is January's legal valorization, extraordinary valorization is $21 billion, which is since July, back from law. The taxpayer's discount is approved by the previous House and government, and that is another 13 billion. [[Time.]] That means you're bragging about something that doesn't follow you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u13	Thank you. Now, Mr Foldyna, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u14	Thank you for your point of view. Mr President, through you, to the Minister. I've always admired you, you're an excellent speaker and you're a Renaissance speaker. You've been good at talking about traffic, and you've been good at talking about a whole bunch of things. However, Minister, what you said here, I would say to you: "Come with me to Ústí nad Labem, to Chomutov, to Děčín in front of the market and come and tell people how you gave them the 74 billion." And come ask them what they think about it. This is such an academic debate, beautiful numbers, but come and see the real life of people in the countryside, not in Prague. Come on in. Come ask them, the single mothers. Come in front of the convenience store, when they're going, they're looking at what they've got that bill that's popping up. And look at the price trends in Hungary and Poland, where the government has really taken a stand to reduce the real costs of society and ordinary people. That's a big difference. The academic debate here, when we get $100,000 on our tab, that's the story, that's what we're discussing. But come to those people who take $20,000, $25,000. Let's tell them you gave them $74 billion. And then let's tell them how many billions you're putting away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u15	Another factual remark from Minister Stanjura. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u16	I am not from Prague, Mr. Foldyna, through the Vice-President. My village, in which I live, has 1,800 inhabitants, and I think that the Moravian-Silesian region is socio-economically very similar in terms of the Ústí Region. It's not as bad sociologically as the Ústí Region, but it's certainly not something that's completely different. I talk to these people every day. I go shopping when I'm home every day, so don't worry. It's a cliché like how we live here in those small-town palaces - I'm here at work, I don't live here. I live in a village with 1,800 inhabitants. That's definitely smaller than the city you live in. So you don't have to train me and lecture me like that. I go out with these people and I'm not scared. I shop, like, twice a week on the weekend, and I know and I talk to these people when they stop me. So I have no problem telling them that, as of June 1, there will be an increased pension of CZK 1,000 on average. Is it true or isn't it? That's just the truth. I understand that I do not have to say 21 billion, but the average increased pension from 1 June is CZK 1,017. Then say it the same way. Or isn't that true? It's true. And if necessary, there'll be another valorization if those prices go up. I am simply saying that the measures proposed by the YES movement lead to longer and higher inflation at the cost of the country's debt, without having any positive effect at least in the medium term. Yeah, tax cuts are nice, and what about three months after I get my VAT back? What's it gonna do to the prices? We're not sure it's going to be - 21 percent, but I'm sure if it goes from 0 to 21, that the 21 percent goes up. So in three months, I'm where I've been, and in the meantime, it's just costing me tens of billions, and it's going to cost me billions a year in all the years to come. That's the solution? I don't think that's the solution. I think the solution is to help those who need the help most. And if we give the stencils, the ones you propose, the ones who need the help most, they don't get as much as they need. [[Time.]] That's simple math. [[Time.]] There's nothing complicated about that. [[Time, Minister.]] We're looking like the state has some extra money. He doesn't. All she has is the taxpayers' money, and from every purchase, the single person pays VAT to the state budget, and from that the debt of the state is paid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u17	I'm registering further factual remarks. First, Mr Foldyna, then Mrs Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u18	Mr President, I will speak to the Minister through you. Mr. Secretary, you said it like it was a little out of the question. The real value of that money is known when these people go to the store and they pay at the store, and the real value is simply unsustainable. This is really a rumor. I'm sorry, I respect you very much, it's just a political debate. You're totally destroying the middle class, you've liquidated the savings. You're destroying the middle class, the teachers we gave them, so we took it all away from them again. They feel it when they go to the store. They feel it when they have to pay the kids some cost for a school trip. And yet here you are constantly talking about some investment in weapons, billions of investment. Madam Secretary, who isn't here, I don't have anyone to address her through, she's going to America and she's telling me all about what she's going to buy at the Ministry, like we know what the state budget is going to be like at this point. Instead of trying to take a peace initiative, you're sending weapons to Ukraine. You know how this conflict is gonna end, who's gonna pay the most for it. Now a moment ago, the European Commission decided to pay the rubles, so it would give way to Russia. So what are we going to do? We're always telling stories here, but the real impact of these stories that are here is affecting our citizens, and that's what's sad about it. Please, let's stop pushing the phrases into a corner here. I don't want to. I really appreciate you, Minister. I'd like to get to the point where we can look these citizens in the eye, and you know very well that in the fall, it's going to be "slim" in here. And I'm worried about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u19	Thank you. I note a number of factual remarks in the order of Mrs Peštová, Mr Janulík, Mr Nacher and others. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow Mr. Foldyna freely here. Everyone who goes to that junk, and it's not just junk, it's the draconian prices that are now rising on food, it's the draconian prices that are still on fuel. I want to ask the Minister, through Mr President, when you talk to these people, do you also explain to them that you get 55 percent of each litre of gasoline, from each litre of diesel you get 50 percent that goes into the state register? And, of course, from that money, you're bailing out. But I'm saying, we're having a good time in this shit, and not just in that shit. I know you don't. We do. [[The Minister of Finance's reaction off the microphone.]] I go out with these people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u21	I'm begging you, don't shout at yourself. You have room to get off the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u22	I go out with these people. I just want to ask, if you're explaining to them, I'm sure you're telling them that by getting a raise on June 1st, it's because of the government, yes, because you voted against it. I believe you're being so objective and telling the truth to everyone's face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u23	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Janulík. Mr. Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have one thing to say to the Minister, I would like it to be said. All this time, I've been hearing a spell about the debt, the state debt. When I look as a normal minded person at the debt of different states, it is clear to all that perhaps the United States can never pay its debt. It's just absolutely impossible, it just can't be. Japan, all states, so it's a fictional variable that doesn't really matter for a normal person's normal life. Minister, I live on the border, and when Austrian pensioners come to us, by the way very happy, very laughing, buying our services and smiling at the world, they don't care that Austria has twice as much debt to GDP as we do. We're 40 percent and they're 83. They don't care. And that's your mantra debt that just doesn't have any practical meaning for a normal person's life. And everyday life only convicts you of that. I'm talking to them and I'm saying, do you know what Austria's debt is? They don't care at all. They live their happy retirement lives, and they don't care that they have twice as much debt, so we're twice as good. So what makes us twice as good? That's a fictitious variable and just a mantra. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u25	Thank you. Now, with Mr Patrik Nacher's factual remark, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will prepare himself with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm happy for this economic debate. The table from Eurostat has been clarified and resolved, thank you for that. And now for the consistency of politicians and politicians. You, now I've looked at it again, I'm sorry, but you are not consistent in these matters, Minister, and this will also apply to the rapporteur, because when you are in opposition, you are always proposing to cut or cancel taxes. In the last parliamentary term, it was the real estate transfer tax, or the real estate acquisition tax. That's what you suggested four times. I voted four times to cancel. It was the abolition of the super-gross wage. The moment you're in government, now I'm going back, so the real estate tax, back then from the real estate transfer, increased from 3 to 4 percent, it was probably 2012, 2013. Don't take my word for it now. Now that the tax reduction, although temporary, applied here by the sixteen states of the European Union, would help, and you yourself said in the covido crisis: Who gives quickly, twice gives, so that something comes in three months, so the question is, how does it help people, because this crisis is unprecedented, it is, and there is a need for some quick measure, so suddenly again, against the temporary tax reduction you are. And I'm talking about consistency. See? I was in favour of reducing taxes or abolishing them, whether I was in the coalition or in opposition. About that... [[Minister Stanjura comes to the speaker's desk and takes the forgotten foundation.]] Yeah, I didn't read it, that's your guy. I'm going down, I'm not reading your materials. So that's what this is about - consistency of attitudes. It's either a person's attitude, whether he's in opposition or a coalition... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Okay, well, I couldn't talk here right now, because the minister here took some equipment. But okay, I'm gonna turn myself in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u27	Thank you for your cooperation. Now Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister Martin Kupka will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u28	I am consistent in that I prefer, Mr Nacher, through Mr President, permanent solutions. In the next press, we propose to abolish road tax where possible. That's a permanent measure. And it's actually the same step as when we canceled the real estate tax. It is a tax that is complicated, bureaucratically demanding, which employs hundreds of officials and has a relatively small yield. So that's an exact example. I'm canceling the agenda, then I can cancel the jobs. I am consistent - I will only talk about myself - even by being on the same political side, without implying anything else, for thirty years now. But to debate - what Mrs Peštová describes: do not make fools of us, through the Vice-President. We go to the shops, we talk to people. What you are describing is the exact effect of inflation, what Mr Foldyna describes. And all I'm saying is that the measures that the YES movement comes with will increase inflation and prolong it. And I think that if I believe that this is the way it is, that I should not vote in favour of such proposals, but I have to do everything we can to reduce inflation and reduce the time it is so unacceptablely high. No one is defending the current level of inflation. I have just described some of the reasons why we have higher inflation than the average in the European Union. This is due to the misguided budgetary policy of the previous government. Even so, it would be high, even without a wrong policy, if we were on average, it would be 7.8 percent. But the actions proposed increase inflation in the finals and extend the time when inflation is high, at the cost of tens of billions of instant costs and at the cost of billions in repayment each year. And that's it. And I asked you, which one of the economists supports your crazy economic ideas? Nobody.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u29	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Kupka, then rapporteur Vojtěch Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u30	We just learned here that there is no real need to deal with debt as if it weren't, and who is involved in the debt. I just want to remind you that the Czech Republic will pay CZK 50 billion for its debts this year. This is the debt service that must be paid, which is reflected in the budget of each year. 50 billion crowns is the budget of ŘSD. That's 50 kilometers of highways, translated into a specific, visible form. So if you want to keep calling here to say that there's no need to settle debts and that we don't have to take any billion into account, then on the other hand, it means that countries don't build a lot of important things from schools, hospitals, highways, roads, railways. In any case, then, no doomsday economist, who has at least a fundamental perspective, can admit this type of reasoning. Even those who openly confess and report to the left do not say that there is no need to deal with debts. To those who listen or do not listen to those who currently have problems - of course from the first moment we were with Zbyněk Stanjura, who dealt with specific carriers and watched their specific problems and the answer to the current situation. And because it had to be dealt with immediately, come immediately with help, followed by a delay in the payment of VAT and a delay in the payment of the road tax and other steps that respond really to the situation. And when you say that we should put a stop to fuel prices, where they did it, that's a dramatic shock to them. In Hungary, the police supervised the pumps to avoid even more dramatic scenes. Fuel ran out in Hungary, fuel ran out in Poland. When you look at the real situation of fuel, prices are higher all over the west of us. It's just like that. And the fact that we managed to keep the prices... [[Your time, Minister.]] ... fuel at ease, even with dramatic growth, is simply one of the essential steps of this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, rapporteur, will prepare Mr Jan Bureš with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I have made a lot of comments in the debate, but I do want to respond to Mr Janulík, by your means, who said, during the French applause of members of the ANO movement, that debt is nothing but fictional, which is of no concern to us at all. I must say that I understand that you really do not care what the debt of our state will be, which means citizens of the Czech Republic. In addition to the fact that really high debts lead to the continuation of inflation and the deepening of inflation, at least if you look at the state budget, you will find an item in the Government Debt Service, which increases with each additional debt. And it means that taxpayers must pay interest on their taxes each year to the Czech Republic on debts that we have from the past. So really, neither financially nor in fact, debt is not a fictional matter. I would ask Mr Janulík, by your means, to take back his claim, because suggesting to our citizens that debts are just something fictitious, suggesting to them that the government actually has some magical purse, which is enough to open up, that there is some kind of spontaneous money, and that it is enough for the government to open them up and give people more and more money, that is simply not true. And from my point of view, it's a really big intervention in society, because you're really leading them to wrong economic considerations. Debts that arise must be paid, interest must be paid. And if we have a continuation of these debts here, we're all going to pay it, especially the middle class, in the fact that they're going to decrease the value of their earnings and the value of their savings due to continued inflation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u33	Thank you. I'll read the cancellation of one apology. Mr. Zlínský from 18.30 cancels his apology from today. We will continue with the factual remarks. Mr Jan Bureš will now speak with a point of fact, and Minister Válek will be prepared, and then Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u34	Thank you. So, my esteemed colleagues, I must say, it was also quite shocking when I heard these incredible statements that debt is a fictional issue, and it doesn't really matter if we have a debt of 40 percent, 80 percent, 120 percent. I don't think we should take an example from governments all over the world, but we should treat the money we're entrusted with as if it were our own money. I wonder if a colleague who said that debts are a fictitious matter, if he treats his own household this way, whether he goes to the bank in this way and asks for more and more loans that he would like to take to run his own household. I highly doubt it. [[18.30 hours]] However, economics in one part can be a very complex science, in some aspects it can also be very simple. Let's take a look at it with that simple look. Just income minus expenses or expenses equals either balance or manko. We've been managing manka for years, that is, with a negative budget, and if we continue to cut revenue and we don't deal with spending, the manko will continue to grow. And I think it's completely twisted politics and completely wrong thinking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u35	Thank you. Another point of fact is Minister Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u36	I'm terribly sorry, I can't do this because the word draconian is repeatedly abused here. I've always appreciated the Athenian politics of the Drakón, and I find it fascinating to use that word in such a senseless way. If anything, draconian law, which is a law that is strict. There can't be a strict price. In addition, Drakón has not implemented any strict laws, he codified the laws, distinguished the death penalty from the death penalty, which is very good. For example, he excluded from the Code of Blood Vengeance and some other things, which were completely, completely bizarre. The Drakón established a righteous order, establishing an order that was for the benefit of Athens' citizens. So if the prices, however they evolve, are for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic, it is only good. So please, a lot of people are listening here, if we use a word, let's first think about what it means, what convention the adjective can be used in. Drakón was an excellent Athens politician, and he deserves respect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u37	Thank you for the language window. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to go to the rapporteur. I feel like we're not listening to each other. I was talking about consistent politics, and what he said here is exactly inconsistent. I'll do it again. When, my colleague, through the Vice-President, you were in opposition, you suggested that the real estate transfer tax be abolished. You proposed and voted to cancel the super-gross wage. [[A note off the microphone.]] Yeah, but I'm still standing up for it. When compensation was discussed here - and I was talking about it here in the state budget - you always suggested these compensations longer, wider, for more people, for a longer period of time. If all this were approved, more resources would be spent. Everything you've done in opposition, you're suddenly not doing. All of what you asked us to do, including the surface measures - I have prepared a quote from the Prime Minister, who called for the area measures, so don't tell me that no, after the surface measures at the time of the covid to be introduced here. You had an amendment here that would save the state budget, if I recall correctly, 80 billion. Now you could have dusted him off, but you failed in the coalition. And it was fair for the Minister of Finance to admit it when I asked him about it in the state budget negotiations. That means, in opposition, you proposed to cut down to minus 80 billion when you were in government, although not you, but the coalition - but I don't care at the time, in the end it is the same - you suddenly proposed the same amendment, which you heroically proposed in opposition, then withdrew yourself and proposed to cut the budget with another number. That means, that's what I'm talking about here, that what you heroically handle from the opposition position, then project when you rule. And that's what bothers me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u39	Thank you for keeping time. We have dealt with the factual points and now I have priority rights. The first person to claim priority rights is Minister Kupka. Yes, President Excellent is also reporting with priority rights. I don't see Minister Kupka. Then Mr Munzar is signed in with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[Mr Nacher and Mrs Schiller argue outside the microphone that Mrs Schiller was the first.]] Well, I'm sorry, but I think you checked in when I wasn't in charge of the meeting, and you're not listed here. I've got Mr. Kupka here. If you were the first to be logged in with priority rights... [[Mrs Schiller prefers.]] So you're third in priority rights, we've already cleared this up with the previous management. [[To the Excellent Members.]] Mr Munzar should go now with priority rights, if Minister Kupka is not here, then Minister Schillerová, and then I wrote to the President of the Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u40	Thank you, Mr President, for clarifying our priority rights. I will try to use this space to return the debate on this consumer tax press. I have applied on the basis of Mrs Schillerová's speech, through you, in which I have noticed several contradictions, one here I would like to emphasise. She said that the reduction in excise duty was insufficient for carriers and that the solution was to abolish VAT. I would just like to point out here that most carriers in the Czech Republic are VAT payers, so the cancellation of VAT will not help them. Perhaps the Member will specify this in her speech. But at the same time, I want to go back to my opening word, really, so you know that from 1 January 2021, the reduction in excise duty on diesel was 1 crown. This, of course, reduces the variable space for our government, for our Republic, by how much it can reduce the excise duty, because this proposal, which this government brings, reduces the excise duty on diesel to de facto the minimum under the European Union directive on general arrangements for excise duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u41	Thank you very much, that was Mr Munzar. It is now Mrs Schillerová's turn to have priority rights. [[Mrs Schiller is speaking to an Excellent Member at her bench, whom Mrs Schiller ultimately prefers.]] Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister, Dear Government, I expressed hope today at a press conference that did not come true, hope that if we have laws here, which, by the way, the opposition is constantly calling when we want to help people in particular, we will agree on this and after some, of course, constructive, factual, but reasonably concise debate will also be decided. Clearly, it turns out that the opposition has first developed or sufficiently extended the negotiations on the programme, and now a truly very constructive debate on this point has developed here. And so I would like to propose that at least one point be negotiated today. Mr Vice-President, please vote in accordance with § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to discuss this item today, including the vote after 19 and 21 hours. So today's meeting would end with this item being discussed, including the vote after 19 and 21 o'clock. I submit a motion on behalf of five ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u43	Yes, I see this procedural proposal. Madam President wants to respond to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, I'd like to clarify that a little bit. It was a glamorous deal today that today and actually the whole week will end at 19 o'clock. Now you've come to me, if we could agree to an extension, and I have agreed, because I admit that this is an important point, it has to be discussed. So please, let's just say how these things are. We are ready to support this, we are ready to support the extension in order to discuss this point. The fact that we have been reading the points that we consider important to discuss here today - in the end, you have rejected them all, and I still think that they are all important to discuss, so I think that maybe this is the opposition's right. And now the debate - I've been sitting here all along, I haven't moved for a second - I think it was completely balanced by both the government coalition and the opposition. So I don't see any problem with extending this law, the debate was mutual, the reaction to the performances were mutual. I'm asking you to set these things straight. And once again, we are ready to support this extension so that this important law, although inadequate as I have said in my speech, can be discussed. So please, let's call things real names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u45	Thank you. There was no other proposal here, or I am registering a procedural motion by President Excellent. I'll repeat it for those who came later. The proposal is for us to vote after 19 and 21 o'clock on this point, House press number 205. [[18.40 hours]] I'm registering interest in the check-out, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you. Votes number 32 are misguided, I'm sorry. If we're all logged in, and it doesn't look like it, I'm gonna check you out one more time, if I may, and I'm gonna ask you to sign in again. One minute, please - the voting system froze. I think everything's okay now. I'll wait a little longer for everyone to have a chance to sign up. I think the number of entries has stabilized. We know what we're going to vote on. We will vote on whether we can continue to vote and discuss today's item after 19 and 21 hours. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a procedural proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 33, 155 Members were voted in favour of 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. This is the chairman of the SPD Fiala Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u46	Thank you for the floor, I would also like to define myself on the words of the President of the KDU-ČSL Group on the fact that everything is actually obstruction. I didn't see any obstructions here today. koneckonců all, this vote proves who wants to be here and who wants to work. I think we all want to relieve the citizens of the Czech Republic, reduce taxes, this is an exceptional matter that I personally would not miss. And I believe that both parties, both the coalition and the opposition, explain what version of tax reductions, what variant of fuel price reductions would be best for the Czech Republic. koneckonců all, the Minister has also spoken very strongly here, and it is good because it is clear that the opposition and the coalition have a different opinion on this. But I have a feeling that every discussion of obstruction is starting to feel as bad as it already is, such a naughty habit on the part of the coalition, and I don't think it is. So I'm going against it, I'm going against it, it's a debate. It's a discussion about which option is better. And I think that is what the Chamber of Deputies is for, and that is correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u47	Thank you and, at this moment, with the priority right of President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In the meantime, I've cooled off since the actual notes were here, but that's okay. It's better every time a person reacts with insight and calmness. Eurostat it is. I've read it, Minister. Yes, it's the pace of debt, that's what they call it, the pace of debt, it's one of the fastest. I think we're in third place. Please also remind us, and let us not forget that there is another graph that confirms the sixth lowest debt within the European Union. And that pace - we also had a situation where we were still providing covido assistance for a large part of 2021, and I will not be making excuses for that, and it was my decision to recommend the Ministry of Finance's expert apparatus, because I only relied on the Ministry of Finance's professional apparatus in my work, and they recommended that I pre-finance myself - that is, when your favorite ones started sending signals, the Czech National Bank that it would raise interest, so they recommended me to pre-finance myself, otherwise you would have a lot more headache today. And I might even - I don't know now, I really don't want to say it with 100% certainty - whether they were just following me orally, or whether I even signed the relevant reporter, I don't know. But, yes, they came up with this recommendation, and I gave it to him. I even accepted the recommendation when I knew that I would not continue as Minister of Finance, in the last quarter of 2021 I still behaved with the care of a proper economy, which means that interest on the bonds in question should be as low as possible. So I don't know who I'd be hiding from or hiding from, but of course it was my decision. I couldn't give a recommendation, either, which I would never do, because it was the right recommendation of a great professional apparatus that manages high-level government debt service regardless of who the minister is. The minister can screw it up by not putting it on those people, and I believe you don't do that either. I'm sure I don't suspect you of that. So let me get this straight. Otherwise, I had this table calculated, I put it on social networks, 2021, 2022, both of the two covido years, the pace of debt comparing all the countries of the European Union, we are below average. We're below average in two years. It is a place of twelve or thirteen, but it is definitely below the European Union average. I'm not going to comment here either, but I may have said it vaguely because both the Minister and the rapporteur responded to it, excise duty and VAT. I hope you don't suspect me, after 25 years of tax, that I wouldn't know that carriers are VAT payers. But, of course, I hope you don't suspect me, but I probably said it too shorthandedly. I was talking about the fact that the reduction in excise duty would not help them, of course VAT would not help them when they are payers, but it would help citizens and help small businesses that are not payers. So I'd just like to make sure something like this doesn't come out. The Minister spoke of additional income - he calls them inflation, it is nothing against anything, I agree with that. I suspect, according to the latest macroeconomic prediction, it was 70 billion, if I'm not mistaken, which would be about 10 more, but I don't want to argue with you right now, I didn't take the evidence with me right now. And we say only - we do not say that you accept all suggestions, but accept some or inspire them! We said a month or three weeks ago when you decided to increase the living and existential minimum by 10 percent, that it was little when inflation was close to 13 percent and there was no commitment that it would stop. Today I have already read in the media - or yesterday - that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will come up with a proposal to increase it. I know that the living and existential minimum, Minister, concerns eight kinds of social benefits, and it enters and increases them, the most socially needed. And, of course, if inflation doesn't reach its increase, it's likely that it will pay the beneficiaries of these social benefits, which are the recipients you call most necessary and therefore at the heart of your interest. Apparently not. [[18.50 hours]] We were increasing the life and existential minimum, and I was forced to study it because I constantly argued about these things and dealt constantly with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We raised it by 13 percent at the time, and inflation was around 4 percent, 3.5, 3.8, and we increased it by this time of covid, because we really wanted to help these people. You know that it enters into parental allowance and other types, housing allowance and others. That means it's important. That means he hasn't escaped a month and you're already considering raising him. Well, logically, you're going to increase it, because of course the enormous social pressure is very high. Does that mean your steps are premeditated, or aren't they premeditated? How come you're going to increase it by 10 percent, and suddenly you're considering raising it again, I don't know how much you're going to talk about it at coalition level today? That doesn't make any sense to me at all. We've designed a whole series of things there that are worth considering. You're talking about them. You're saying we'll increase the parental allowance. We also have an increase there. Okay, we can argue about how much. We have an increase in the mobility allowance. I mean, they're all the needy ones. And once again, you've repeated the 74 billion. Seems stupid to me. You say, "We've directed the people, says the Prime Minister, 74 billion." And we say - remember, when pensions were voted here last July, an increase of CZK 300 above legal valorisation, which is an increase on January 1, 2022, so who voted against? Let me refresh your memory: ODS, TOP 09, STAN movement, Pirates. My name is not KDU, it voted in favour of being fair. And I'm always fair, I found it. So we know what's going on. And now it's directed towards the people? But it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter who gets the credit. The important thing is that the money just comes to these people, of course, gradually, because the pensions are gradually paying off. The fact that you have to pay off extraordinary inflation - thank God we have that law here for 15 years, which says when inflation rises above 5%, so from the end of the month following that, you have to extraordinarily valorize pensions - you have one more extraordinary valorisation to go. You know about it, but it's legal, and you just have to give it to me. We talk here very often about middle class and middle class today, and these are sociologists' data - Daniel Prokop, People in Need, Mr Hůle and others that I read, some economists talk about it, I read them, I try to read them from morning, just as I have time, and almost all the different studies that come out - and the middle class that you talk about so often, which you curse so often, is threatened today. And what do you say to her? Don't worry, don't worry, middle class, we won't let you fall. When you're at the very edge of poverty, you can go get your welfare benefits. That's what you're saying. But they don't want to go for welfare. They want to survive that time. You're blaming us for covid time. I've said it here x-times. What are you blaming us for? Weren't we supposed to be doing covido help here? Weren't we supposed to give help to entrepreneurs, employees, health care, paramedics, armed forces? X-times I challenge you, come here and tell me what we shouldn't have given out. That you're enchanting with some analysis and the SAO, which I mostly disagree with, and it's the NKÚ, of course, when it evaluates the steps of your government, we'll tell each other. And once again, I have said x times, I have counted all your amendments - I mean the former opposition - proposals, parliamentary proposals for covido support. It was 200 billion. I've got it ticked down by the item. That means what my fellow Member Patrik Nacher said when he said that when you are in opposition, you lower taxes, and when you are in government, you raise them. Remember, the last right-wing government, how it behaved towards VAT, how it increased the real estate tax, how it acted in a crisis, who it gave? Nothing to anyone. That's what I had x-counted here, too. It turned out to be about 3.5% of the GDP then, the help then. When you're in government, you give no one anything, you don't help anyone, and of course you don't want to cut taxes. We are here today in a situation where we have a right-wing government that wants to control margins, and we have a left-wing or a left-wing - you call us that, we don't feel that way, we feel like pragmatism - that wants to cut taxes. So that's where we made it. Anyway, I think we can hang out here all we want. I'll count you here, you've already been counted by Czech Television, so I don't have to say that you haven't directed any 74 billion to people, but that's not gonna help anybody. If you were to direct them there and those people - and the economy - had them, they wouldn't be in so much trouble. And please don't say that for inflation - I know you came up with the successful election slogan of Babišův's dearest, but the average inflation in 2021 was 3.8 according to the CSU, and in December it was 5.6 or 5.8, I don't remember it exactly. So where was the result of the billions? Let us remember that the Czech Republic, with its size in the framework of the expansionary fiscal policy of all European countries, of course the world, but now here in Europe, was a drop in the sea. How much did other economies give? And, Minister, you have appointed Germany. You took the excise tax, but you looked at Germany's debt, what percentage of GDP? That she's twice as much as the Czech Republic? And what's the massive help? You chose one item. Have you looked at Slovakia last week, how much Slovakia will help in this and next year, how much will help the economy and people? Or do you count when you say what happens after the relief is over? You're counting on it to be forever, that this crisis will always be here? That forever, just that we'll never get out of this again? No way! Covid wasn't forever either, hopefully, hopefully. I pray to God he's behind us, I hope. Let's hope, because when I see the news from China, I see the Minister here - and, oh, I'm sighing so much right now that this doesn't happen to us, what we see in China. So all I'm saying is that you're trapped in your own slogans and your own rhetoric. You said, "Babišův's precious, you said, "We are about to go bankrupt." Eurostat shows it clearly who's ahead of bankruptcy and who's not. We can't afford anything, we have to save money, and now you're actually in a situation where you're going to have to prepare - I'm going to study the convergence programme tonight, I suppose I'm going to study the frameworks that are waiting for you, when you're going to have to prepare an amendment to the State Budget Act, and I'm going to appeal to you: if you're going to increase it - and you yourself in the media have admitted that you're going to increase the deficit, so I've heard it at least, although of course you said you don't know how much - so remember those people. I'm not saying all the suggestions we've proposed, but at least select some. I heard you're thinking about some of them, and please really point them in the direction of these people because they need help now. And it'll come back to the economy the way it came back to us when we were helping out for the covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u49	I had Mr. Munzar's factual comment here, but he probably checked out, so then there's the Prime Minister Kupka's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u50	I will only react very quickly to what has been said that we are not reducing taxes. So reality: the proposal to abolish road taxes for vehicles up to 12 tonnes is a concrete fact. A proposal to reduce excise duty, another concrete step. These are obvious facts, these are clear steps instead of awkward rhetoric. As for the accusation that we are not sufficiently in touch with people who live current problems: well exactly the other way around. The proposals and what we have done are based on immediate contact with those most affected. And in order to deal with the current situation, that is why there have been delays in payment of VAT, because it is immediate assistance that can be done immediately, without the threat of obstructions that we have witnessed here today - three hours of debate on the programme is nothing that we would have experienced in history. This is simply the new approach of the YES and SPD movement - so be it - in a situation where we are discussing steps that are really designed to help people and can really help people. We said that for the carriers, on which it happened immediately, and of course for those smaller ones who often have three, two cars, the impact was immediate, where immediate assistance worked well. And, of course, we have combined with this other steps, which are absolutely necessary also the proposal to reduce excise duty to the minimum, to which we can reach out at the same time solves a few specific aids to the people who face the problems most. This applies both to small carriers, for which it will undoubtedly be a balancing of the dramatic situation and the necessary relief, so it will also help public transport, both in the case of bus transport and, of course, public transport on trains that are not electrified. Another important help is for all who have to drive and commute daily and, of course, have to cope with the high prices. Of course, we also need to see how the price of oil develops and what happens in other states. It is said that everywhere is cheap, while in the Czech Republic expensive, well - reality is unfortunately different. Fuel prices to the west from us are mostly higher, fuel prices in the Czech Republic, thanks to the government's steps and thanks to them, have fallen in recent weeks. And if the price of oil continues to evolve favorably, so will all measures, fuel and their price, continue to decline. So a clear answer: these steps are based on immediate contact with those who are most struggling with current problems and, of course, they are also based on the fact that every help we come up with will necessarily mean an increase in the government budget deficit, the Czech budget, clearly the thing that can bring and will cause difficulties on the other hand. And if it is said that inflation has risen significantly: well, if we hadn't taken these steps in the form of a more economical budget, we would have faced much more serious impacts and impacts on people's wallets today, in much more serious increases in the prices of all consumer basket items, common to people's normal lives. So this needs to be made clear at the same time. And if we hadn't taken those steps, the cases of people coming to the supermarket would have been even more dramatic today. But, of course, it is much easier to make a populist point of view of the current situation and not see what would have happened if we had acted less responsibly. One particular case - it was said here that she would not be visible to help. A regular truck has two tanks of thousands of liters. If - and this is really going to happen - fuel prices are reduced following a reduction in excise duty, this is a visible savings of CZK 3,000 for one refueling. And, of course, it will have a significant impact on the way those who depend on transport breathe, and those who live on transport, as well as those who need transport for their daily business and for their daily activities. So these are specific examples instead of unnecessary rhetoric, which merely shows the end of the dead end of the ANO movement's proposals and calls for us, as we have heard, no matter how much we are indebted - to be indebted, nobody seems to pay. I have made it clear that increasing debt means concrete impacts even in the possibilities of the state that it can invest and how it is able to take care of those who need it most.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u51	Thank you. With a factual point, Mrs Oulehlová is reporting. By the time he gets to the microphone, I'll take the liberty of reading my apologies. Today, between 7:00 and midnight, Mr Feranec apologizes because of illness, and then I have Mr Bělor's apology between 7:00 and 11:45 a.m. and the last apology is Mr Jakob between 7:00 and 24:00. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u52	I would like, hello, fellow Members, dear colleagues, I would like to respond, through the President, to the Minister of Transport. Minister, most of the goods and food, as well as any goods, are being imported by trucks that weigh more than 12,5 tons, so you haven't helped anyone at all - you just threw those carriers overboard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u53	Another point of fact, Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u54	So, if the Member, by your means, could tell and advise the government how to abolish the road tax of over 12 tonnes when you give us this unsolicited advice for free. Minister Kupka opened negotiations at European level. He asked the Commissioner responsible to abolish this Europe's harmonised tax. Your government didn't do anything about it. By the way, the relief that we are proposing is in another press, not in this - but well, we can debate it - accounts for about 80 percent of the tax collection. And you say it's nothing - 80 percent of tax collection is nothing? I think it's more than three quarters. I think 80 is more than 75. I don't think that's worth arguing about. We, and the 12 tons, if you read the reason report well, you'll read the examples that are there, so wherever we could, we've reduced it to the lowest European level. It's in the explanatory note, you can read it. There are also specific cases of various cases where the tax simply goes down. And we initiatived after the first meeting of Česmad at European level to initiate negotiations on the abolition of this harmonisation. I think it's a relic from when there was no performance without charging freight. We have power without charging, so I think it's good if we can negotiate a cancellation. At the moment we manage to negotiate the abolition of this obligation, we will certainly come up with a proposal to abolish the current part of the road tax. But what we've already decided and what's in the law is that I've canceled the advances to improve the cash flow, and if the law goes through, as we propose, there's no advance payments, there's no five times a year, it's paid once a year. If any of you ever filled out a road tax form, you have to admit that it's a real pain in the ass that it's really bureaucratic, and it wasn't worth the choice. So the crisis has actually only accelerated... [[Time, Minister.]] ... our efforts to abolish this tax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u55	Thank you. Your point of fact... [[Let's hear it for the five-wheelers.]] ...has raised two more factual points. First Mrs Peštová, Mrs Oulehlová will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u56	I would like to respond to the Minister of Finance, through the President. When my colleague, Madame, said that you did nothing for them, she really meant that you did nothing for them, because the measures that you have proposed here do not address carriers that are above 12 tonnes. Yes, you said, "Help us or, respectively, if we have a solution." Yes, the solution is that you must negotiate with the European Commission. That's over 12 tons of road tax. Next up, we have fuel. Power supplies are still where they are. That is, when we look at Poland, when we look at Hungary, the prices have gone down. Yes, you do not want to go with the price - cropping, you can go with the price - reduction of VAT or with the price - reduction of excise duty. That's what this is all about. [[19.10 hours]] When we look at the incorporation of biofuels, the incorporation of biofuels is covered by the Act on Air. Populistic, populist! You have repealed Section 19 and you are leaving Section 20 there because you are damn aware that there is a transposition of the directive that clearly tells you that fuel suppliers must reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6% each year and have no choice but to mix them. So basically, you didn't do anything for them. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u57	Minister Stanjura will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u58	The power of voice doesn't increase the validity of arguments, I'd like to say. [[A round of applause from Members of the ODS.]] So you may scream, Madame, but it does not increase the seriousness of the argument. So what did our colleagues in Poland do? They reduced VAT from 23 to 8 percent. How does this help carriers with trucks over 12 tons? They're not -- yeah, they're VAT payers. The second step taken by our colleagues in Poland in terms of fuel - they reduced the excise duty to the European legal minimum, which is the content of this bill, so they did the same as we did. But in the world of Mrs Polák, they did everything and we did nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u59	Another factual point, Mrs Peštová. No, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u60	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance, through the President, that he has indeed confirmed that the government has done absolutely nothing for those large carriers, that it is still trying to negotiate. And what the Minister said, what Poland did, what we did - yes, Polish carriers take our carriers' jobs because we are not competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u61	Now it is Mrs Peštová on another factual point. Minister Kupka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u62	I just want to respond. Yes, you say the voice of argument doesn't get stronger in some way, but what I was trying to say, I think you understand very and very well. That means you didn't do anything for the carrier. You mentioned Poland here, but when did Poland do it? When did Poland do it, and when will you do it? Since June 1st. And until those carriers? Until then, it will be exactly as it was said here, those carriers will lose their customers. And if you think those customers will come back to them after you lower the excise duty on June 1st, then forget it. They're losing their clients just because it moves either to Poland or Hungary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u63	Thus continues with the factual remark of Minister Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u64	It is a terrible pity that you are not actually speaking to these carriers, because if you spoke to them, through Mr President, you would also hear a concrete response from them to what the government has done. So there's no way nothing's true. These concrete steps have significantly simplified the situation for many people, many carriers, at the time of the emergency. And when you say and give examples from other states, in Germany carriers pay a significantly higher price of diesel despite all the efforts of Germany to resolve it somehow. The Czech government was undoubtedly more successful here in this regard. And I'm not going to repeat - or you know what, I'm going to repeat it to make it clear against your false nothing: specific deferrals of VAT payments, delays in payment of road taxes, negotiations already in Brussels and how we can help carriers with vehicles over 12 tonnes. Other proposals that are being prepared here in the House and we can vote on them shortly. So these are the specific things that the government has done, and no one will ever answer that, even if you repeat four times that nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u65	Thank you. Finally, one more factual point by Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u66	This time I would like to respond to the Minister of Transport. I love you, I love reacting to you. Anyway, what you're saying isn't true. I'm talking to the carriers because I'm talking to them, so I'm picking up the subject here. That's because they're giving me the feedback, so I'm picking up the subject here. So don't tell me I'm not talking to them, I'm talking to them. And I wish you all the texts and the phones I have with them. If you'd talked to them, too, you'd have heard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u67	So there was one confession that led to another factual remark. [[Laughs from the benches.]] Mrs Oulehlová reports again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u68	Mr Transport Minister, through Mr President, I also join in, I also like you. [[Laughter and applause from the benches.]] But I love the carrier I'm married to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u69	Excuse me, is there anyone else here who likes Minister Kupka? [[Laughing from the benches again.]] Seriously. This was the last factual point and we will return to the general debate. Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Hrnčíř. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u70	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to start by saying that I also like the Minister Kupka not to sound just from the ladies. [[Laughing]] But still, I'll still be a little critical. [[with laughter]] Of course, I welcome the government, although late, trying to help and reduce the excise duty on fuel by a crown of fifty, but for some four months. Well, I don't know if this is the main problem of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I believe that the problems that our citizens are suffering are much bigger and much wider. So let me mention at least some of the problems of Czech citizens, because I have the impression that the government has no idea about the problems of ordinary people in this republic. The first problem is already falling inflation. Currently, it is 13 % of the circus, however, according to experts it is expected to exceed 15 percent in the future. Even its decline should be later and slower than expected. According to the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok cannot be expected to drop inflation in the foreseeable future, rather the opposite. What has the government of the Czech Republic done for its citizens in this matter? The second problem is the increasing availability of housing, as the government refused to address the sharp increase in interest rates and the associated drastic increase in mortgage payments. The purchase of own housing is no longer available to most residents of the Czech Republic. However, rents in rental apartments have also increased, so this problem affects almost everyone. Of course, the problem of mortgage advisors, who have to deal with lack of clients, is linked to the decline in interest in mortgages. I think it is very clear that the drastic increase in mortgage payments by many citizens will not be able to pay. I would like to point out that in January, the number of newly initiated executions increased by almost 40 percent compared to the situation six months ago, and this is, unfortunately, only the beginning. What has the government of the Czech Republic done for its citizens in this matter? The third problem is the constantly rising energy prices caused, on the one hand, by accession to the emission allowances system and, on the other hand, the war in Ukraine. The European Union issues emission allowances as an instrument for regulating the energy market, and it is, of course, an increase in the number of emission allowances, which are largely behind the increase in energy. I really expected that the war in Ukraine and our dependence on Russian gas would show the need for as much energy independence as possible and that the European Union, and if not that, the government of the Czech Republic will certainly immediately withdraw from the crazy theories of the so-called Green Deal, that it will be clear that the vision of an ideal clean energy, which according to the European Union can only provide solar, wind and hydro power plants and only temporarily nuclear power plants, must give way to common sense and the fact that these resources are not only insufficient to cover real energy consumption, but are financially liquidated for the citizens of the European Union. [[19.20 hours]] In response to many citizens, I would expect an immediate action by the government of the Czech Republic, such as regulating electricity or natural gas prices, retreating from purchasing on foreign exchanges and, of course, leaving the emission allowances system immediately. What did the government of the Czech Republic actually do for its citizens in this matter? She refused to leave the Green Deal and advised people to set a lower temperature on their thermostat at home. The government also claims that it cannot regulate electricity prices for customers of the Czech Republic. At the same time, the Slovak government did it. The conclusion is the only one: the Czech government failed again. He doesn't want to solve the problem on purpose. The result is clear that the price of electricity in Slovakia is fixed by 2024 at EUR 62 per megawatt hour. In our country, the lowest price is more than 160 euros per megawatt hour. Why doesn't Prime Minister Fiala go to Germany to get gas for CZK 7 per cubic meter so that we don't pay more than CZK 100 billion for gas than other countries, because we buy the gas several times the price? The situation is absolutely critical. Gas prices for customers are thus more than twice as high in the Czech Republic as in Slovakia. Why does the government ban the so-called disinformation sites and fight disinformation and spread misinformation on purpose? For example, that we can handle the energy crisis and that we are ready for it. How? Or that energy prices have risen in our country as in other countries, i.e. by tens of percent, while rising by hundreds of percent. Why isn't the government telling the truth? The fourth problem is the incredible increase in fuel, which, although slightly cheaper in the past days, has now remained high in price and economists say that there should be some significant discount in future days. Prices thus remain on average on some 45 kroner per liter of diesel, which is simply unbelievable, and according to some predictions will continue to increase. The SPD movement proposed several solutions consisting of temporary remission of VAT on fuel or to determine the maximum price per litre. The long-term solution, of course, is to withdraw from the so-called Green Deal. What did the Czech government do? It wants to end the incorporation of biofuels into diesel and reduce the excise duty on only the koruna and 50 cents, which is a rather smiling savings. Plus, it's only for four months. He also plans to forgive the road tax, which is a small help only for businessmen, because if you imagine that the tax is a circus of two three thousand per year per car, it cannot, of course, be compensated for the prices that those companies have to pay not only for heating buildings and for other energy, so it is very small aid. To ordinary citizens, the government has advised them to refuel less. The fifth problem, the previous problems raised by me, is the increase in food prices. Agricultural production - don't worry, I'll be finished for another minute - agricultural production affects not only the crazy price of energy, petrol or diesel, but unfortunately also the jump price increase for other commodities. Only the price of wheat has increased by 40 percent in recent weeks. A further increase in prices is thus expected not only for bread, where prices are expected to rise to double or more, but also for meat, because of course the compound feed will also become more expensive. Economists expect the situation to continue to deteriorate. I would just like to remind you that the SPD has repeatedly highlighted the need for as much food self-sufficiency as possible. What was the reaction of the current coalition? You laughed at us. So, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I want to ask you whether you are still laughing at this. Or do you realize how serious a problem that is? I could continue this way with other problems such as restrictions on freedom of speech, cutting wages for police officers, firefighters, non-teaching workers and other things. Thank you for your word and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u71	Thank you. We have Mr Adamec's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u72	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to ask you, Mr President, if Mr Hrnčíř's colleague has a priority right. Although it is duly entered into the debate, it is to speak to the point, and it is not to speak. What is allowed to the people here with priority rights is not allowed to us who do not have priority rights. And we're supposed to get to the point, so I'd like us to cut to the chase and save the election programs for another time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u73	That was Mr Adamec's factual point. We are going back to the general debate to which Mr Kolovratník is registered. Mr. Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u74	I will speak to the point, I promise, Mr. Chairman of the Adamč Economic Committee. That's what I'm thinking when I perceive the previous debate that dramaturgyna Nováková from 168 hours will have a harvest who doesn't like and like here. I will not add more food to this subject, but first I will respond briefly to the previous debate. I agree that presenting my electoral programs here and poaching some ideas here on the one hand belongs, on the other hand, we should be a little bit more relevant. You know, at the beginning, when I listened to Minister Stanjura, I nostalgicly remembered - perhaps even lightened - when I remember last year, when we were here, ODS and ANO, we canceled super gross wages together and relieved everyone. We had a match, and we said, "Let's leave more in people's purses." And you see, he ran away for a year. I'm happy about our decision tonight, and I think it was the right thing to do. I don't think inflation was turning. Now I'm sorry that we don't often look at this thing as united as we were a year ago, and we've actually been here in two camps, albeit inversely. So you see, we were good at super gross wages. I am optimistic, and I believe that one day we may find a similar consensus between the YES and the ODS here again. That's the reaction to the previous debate. But on the second point, I'll also respond, I have three prepared. That's Germany, the German reference...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u75	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. I'll ask the other colleagues to calm down. The noise level seems to be more than optimal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u76	Thank you so much for that. I think it has been said from the mouth of Minister Stanjura that the reduction in the fuel tax in Germany is not so high and large. And see, that's not all the information. What happened in Germany? The German government has already adopted the first package of measures for socially weak people in winter. Now he's ready for his next move. As far as I know - I don't have the most recent news to be correct - but he has prepared additional flat-rate assistance of some 300 euros per worker. In order for me to be in the transport business and in connection with excise duties on fuel, he's planning a public ticket, a cheap public ticket, for some 9 euros for all modes of transport. Please, colleagues, watch, try to inspire yourself with this. You help people positively, you allow them to use other modes of transport, which we know are ecological, efficient, are public. The government will get more people into public transport, therefore also carriers, not only the freight in this case, but also the personal ones, will have better economic results, will work better. It should be in Germany, it is not yet approved, it is subject to a number of debates, it has to be rightly said. The Federal States aren't exactly thrilled about this, so we'll see what happens. But to make it short: the idea of the Němec is that sometime from June to August they should support both the carriers, which are often mentioned here today, and the citizens, those who use or need to use transport, and the road to work. Cheap public ticket for all modes of transport. Please consider it an inspiration. I don't want to be critical here, I want to bring it to you as a suggestion or an idea. I want to say one more thought here, and I want it to be heard and heard. When we were discussing this at the club this morning, I tried to put in a good word for not agreeing to speed up negotiations in the '90s, so that we could agree on a normal standard discussion, but with the support of a maximum reduction in deadlines. In the end, I wasn't heard. I respect that, and I understand that, and I don't want you, the coalition, to criticize us for deliberately pervading, prolonging the adoption of the law today. I agree, I understand that speed is now prevailing, that it is at least something, even if - as you hear and hear from all of us - it is little, we think it is little. [[19.30 hours]] But I will explain why I suggested this: because if you, my friends, look at the numbers - I'm going to cut it a lot, and I'm going to explain very simply: the excise tax that is used on diesel and on petrol, she has the bottom limit, the lowest amount that can be. For diesel it is EUR 330 per 1000 litres of diesel, for petrol EUR 359 per 1000 litres. So if we convert it, let's just make it count as a crown versus a liter, so with petrol, the consumption is 12.84. If we subtract the proposed crown of fifty, it'll be 11.34. That's what I want to say, what's the point of my performance. The European minimum that could be the lowest excise duty on petrol is a little over 9 crowns, so we are - or you are - unlike diesel, where the lowest possible reduction is indeed 1.50, with petrol please it was possible to lower the excise duty, the final price of petrol by up to 3.70. You could have rounded it by 3.50. And if we were to use it, a lot of things are about symbols, about psychology, about symbolism of what we see today and every day in everyday life, you might want to introduce our Czech drivers, whether in business or private, who drive on roads today and every day, looking at those totems, so if today's gasoline prices are moving somewhere above 40 crowns, on average 41, 42, if the government coalition in its proposal reduced the excise tax on petrol by 3.50, you could break the magical limit of 40 crowns on petrol and go back. Of course, this proposal would find support in our opposition. You haven't decided on it, so I'm saying, this is how we're going to communicate, petrol could be cheaper by 3.50, it's only going to be cheaper by 1.50. And this is a message to voters with citizens of the Czech Republic. Finally, in order not to criticize me to be correct: what I listened very anxiously to some hour or two ago at the outset of this debate, I very carefully and sensitively observe how the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure is developing and looks like the budget of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, to which the reduction would be burdened, and I rightly want to appreciate here that Minister Stanjura has promised, confirmed that the revenue gap will be supplemented by some other sources to the State Fund. All I'm saying here is that the original proposal from the pen of the YES movement and Minister Karel Havlíček for this year was almost 130.5 billion, now it is 3 billion lower, 127.5. I have suggested, in cooperation with President Schillerová, that, in the form of an amendment for those 3 billion, you give 130 - we have not, so far, 127, so hopefully it will not go down. Let us hope that the promise of Minister Stanjura will be kept, that the investments that will cost you much more and much more because of inflation, because of what is happening on the construction market, will not slow down at too high a pace. You slow them down, we know that, but hopefully it won't be too slow. And the last point, the petrol might have been cheaper by 3.50 - it won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u77	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Nacher, three apologies. Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes, from 19.10 to the end of the day, as well as from seven to the end of the day, the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan and from seven to the end of the day for working reasons, Minister Kupka. That was an apology. And now, please, Mr Nacher, we are in a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u78	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear government, colleagues, before I begin, I would like to say in front of the parentheses: when my colleagues here confessed that they liked Minister Kupka, I wanted to say that because the Minister of Finance was sorry that I liked the Minister of Finance. He's a good rhetor, even in the last term we founded his fan club and I was the secretary of this fan club, the chairman was Aleš Juchelka. So that's the first point. The other one responds to what happened here, and it won't be that positive. I have to reject the words that Marek said Výborný - and I'm sorry that he said it - that someone is sharpening something. That's the obsession you have here. When we react at some point, it's obstruction. If we apply to actual notes, it's obstruction, however clearly there's a reaction to the reaction. When we propose points to a program that we justify on average - how much was it? - three, five, seven minutes, I could talk for half an hour, I talked for about four minutes, all those points related to the current situation we suggested today, so it's obstruction. It's not like that! I'm sorry, but this is just not possible for me. And that follows the first remark I have to this point, that is, as you can see, we are not obstructive, unlike you. We're not in the '90s, and we could veto it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u79	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I ask especially your colleagues to quiet down and you can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u80	So if we were being obstructive, we could veto the 90's, but we're not doing it and we're not doing it, however ideal of course, it would be that it would veto the 90's and allow us to load the amendments we're talking about here, the deadline for a few days tops, and then some outcome would be approved. But since we know that you won't approve of anything as opposition, so far you're just beating us up, you're doing things that bothered you when you were in opposition, so we're not in the '90s. It's like a note number one, and it's good to point it out here, just like on the next point. Note two. The Minister likes the table here - he is not here now because he is filming something on Television Nova and he has not heard my compliments - but now he would hear that from 27 countries in the European Union 24 countries are working on something across the board, 16 countries are reducing taxes - VAT or excise taxes, 16 countries are introducing some price ceilings - I am not a supporter - and 20 countries even give some subsidies. I'm not a fan of it either, but it's a good thing to say it's not like you're telling us it's just some sort of yes movement recipe. No, this is happening all over Europe. Now, why am I talking about this? I was talking today, and my most common word was consistency. And I'm talking about it here because you guys, when you were in opposition, weirdly called for a lot of measures. Quote. Petr Fiala: "During the country, governments are launching large-scale measures to save businessmen and entrepreneurs, only in our country Babišův's government is laying down many complicated conditions. It looks like he's trying to achieve as few people as possible to support. At this point, there is no time for a difficult solution, there is a need to help quickly." This means that you, when you were in a different role, called for those surface measures, and those surface measures are needed at this point in time. After all, the proposal itself is actually proof that you, after the initial rejection, are going into those area measures, even if it is only a crown of fifty and it is for four months. So it's not true that you're avoiding it. You're actually forced by pressure to suggest something here. We say it's late and it's inadequate. The second quote relates to this, and Zbyněk Stanjura here said several times on the microphone at the covid: "He who gives quickly twice gives." And that's not fulfilled here either, unfortunately. Well, follow your own saying, which you've repeated here several times. That means it's fast, not until June 1st, and it's more robust. This has to do with my questions, which Mr President will perhaps address here to the Minister when he returns: if there are any scenarios prepared, how will you react further, how, why did you come up with this proposal that this is the crown of fifty and these four months. Why isn't it necessary by the end of the year? Why didn't you touch the VAT? You know how the situation will develop in June, July and so on? You're shaking your head here, but you were asking us to do the same with a covid, which was also new. It was brand-new! And you felt that we all knew how it was going to turn out - that it would return to us omicron, one variant, the other variant. Now don't be surprised! I'm just giving you a mirror. So let me get this straight. There were no obstructions today, first of all. Two. As much as we could, the proposals you have here, the first two, we don't vet you, but we also say they're inadequate and they're submitted late. Thirdly, here I remind you that it was you, even through the mouth of the current Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, who asked us to take general measures, to take swift measures, to take generous measures. You haven't met any of those conditions of your own right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u81	And the last one entered into the general debate is Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u82	Today I hope for the last time perhaps factual remarks, I will still respond if there are any. It wouldn't be me, either, if I didn't get off to biofuels, because, of course, biofuels me in my professional practice at the Ministry... [[Rush in the hall. He's turning to the news desk.]] Stirring? [[Member Nacher off the mic: It's not now.]] I'll save it for next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u83	Thank you. That was Mrs, the last one entered into the general debate, yet I will ask if anyone is joining the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Will I ask if there is an interest in the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur? Neither does the rapporteur. So we will now decide pursuant to Section 90 (5) on the continuation of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution, and I will also arrange for colleagues to come forward: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 205 so that consent can be given to it at first reading.' Yes, I'm registering an interest in check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm asking you to log back in with your I.D. cards. [[The President will remain silent, the Members will come to the hall.]] Once again, I will repeat the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on Houses of the Press 205 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' You're applying? [[Ms. Schiller off the microphone: No, I'm already voting.]] Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of such a motion for a resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 34, 143 Members were signed in, 140 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Then we can launch a detailed debate. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate? prosit, Madam President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I have already announced in the general debate, in the context of a detailed debate, I would like to propose an amendment to the effectiveness of Section 90 para. 6 of its Rules of Procedure in such a way that, instead of the date of 1 October 2022, 1 January 2023, the effectiveness would be postponed and the new legislation would be effective until the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u85	Yes. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? Mr. Chairman Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u86	I am so sorry, Mr Vice-President, but I would like a break by 19.50 for a meeting of the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u87	Yes, I understand. So I'm declaring a break until 19.50, when we meet and we continue to discuss this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-26-ps2021-019-01-001-023.u88	It's 19.50, we'll go back to discussing our point. I will remind you that we are in a detailed debate. I want to ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. Will I ask the plaintiff's final word? Not interested. So we will move on to the vote on the proposals that were made in the detailed debate. Let me just remind you that President Schillerová has read the proposal for a change of effectiveness from 1. 10. 2022 to 1. 1. 2023. I'll ask the plaintiff's opinion? [[Disagree.]] The rapporteur does not have an opinion because this was not discussed by the Committee on Budgets. So we will begin the vote and we will vote on the proposal. I'm registering an interest in checking you all out, and I'm going to ask you all to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has stabilized. I will remind you that we will be voting on the proposal for a change of effectiveness, which was read by President Schillerová. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 35, 156 Members were enrolled, 76 voted in favour, 76, 4 abstained, the proposal was rejected. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will give you the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, pursuant to House press 205." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 36, 156 Members were enrolled, 154 voted in favour, no one opposed, the proposal was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and that is the end of item 23. And that concludes today's meeting day. I'll meet you tomorrow at 9:00. Have a nice rest of the evening.
