ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u1	31. Government bill amending Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, and Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended / House print 213/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, this press should be submitted by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela, who is not present, but who will be replaced by the Minister of Justice Blažek. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u2	Thank you again for the floor. Allow me to introduce a bill amending the Consumer Protection Act and the Civil Code. The main reason for the processing is the proper implementation of the European Union's rules on consumer protection into national law. The regulations implemented include, in particular, the Directive on better enforcement and modernisation of Union consumer protection legislation, the Directive on certain aspects of contracts for the provision of digital content and digital services, the Directive on certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods and the Directive on consumer rights. For example, the Consumer Protection Act introduces new obligations for entrepreneurs in the online environment, consumer protection against artificially increasing prices from discount events, extension of supervisory authorities' competence to areas where supervision has not yet been exercised, such as the area of abuse in consumer contracts or information obligations regulated by the Civil Code. For example, in the Civil Code, consumer rights from defective performance are newly regulated. The rights of consumers are also adjusted when concluding distance contracts and outside commercial premises. Specifically, information obligations, formal requirements for contracts and the exercise of the right of withdrawal are specified. Given that the European regulations in question are based on the principle of full harmonisation, the draft law presented does not depart from their provisions. However, the Czech Republic has taken advantage of the possibility of adopting a stricter regulation in two cases when concluding a consumer's home contract without a prior visit and during an organized sales event where the withdrawal period is 30 days compared to the previous 14 days. When concluding a consumer contract over the phone, a request for confirmation in text form is introduced. The Government has discussed and approved the proposal on 13 April 2022, as is now being presented to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u3	I thank the appellant and ask now that the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Patrik Nacher, take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, honourable Members, we have before us a proposal on consumer protection, press 213, which goes into two laws - the Consumer Protection Act and the Act or the Amendment to the Civil Code. I have asked - it is a bit annoying that the Minister of Industry is not here to take advantage of this, because it is really useful for consumers - so I have offered the Ministry that there should be some kind of awareness of all three readings, because the fact that the law is changing for consumers is useless to those consumers when they do not know about their rights. And here this standard brings some significant changes that I have prepared to make to you, what changes they are, but consumers have to learn about these rights because otherwise they can't apply them, otherwise they won't know that from 14 days it will extend to 30 days and so on, that some other rules are changing when it comes to giving discounts in terms of reviews and so on, I will get there. And the moment those consumers don't know, they won't even know they're protected at some point - better - for me. This is where three things came out. I'm not gonna read all the numbers here because I want to go after the content, but the basis. Firstly, it is a transposition of Directive 2019/2161 of the European Parliament, which aims to improve the enforcement of the modernisation of Union legislation for consumer protection. Then it is Directive 2019/770 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods. And then it's a correction of the shortcomings in the transposition of older EU directives, especially in the Civil Code. When you read it like that, of course, nobody really understands it and doesn't know what's changing for consumers. What is essential in terms of time is that Member States had a duty to transpose these provisions into national law by 28 November 2021, so in addition to education, we should also go quickly with the fact that the new rules will enter into force on 28 May 2022, which, as you can see here, we are clearly already off schedule and out of deadline. I don't know now, Mr. Minister - before I go into the content - if there's any - because I didn't get the information from the Ministry, if I did, then I'm going to read it - some shortened deadlines or something. That's why it's a shame the Minister isn't here. I'm happy to do it, but I need to make a deal. As regards the fundamental changes, as I said, this concerns the amendment to the Civil Code and the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act. With regard to the amendment of the Civil Code, the right to withdrawal from the contract must be significantly changed, which is a very important thing for consumers. Trouble, for example, was that entrepreneurs refused to recognise consumers' right to withdraw from the contract because goods were not delivered to them, and the withdrawal period has not started to run, for example. Those are pretty common cases. By the way, it extends the right of withdrawal from 14 days to 30 days. Here I remind you of the most common situation, it's a need for a door-to-door sale. Another change there is telephone contracts, where closure is tightened for the protection of particularly vulnerable persons. This means that there would be a text confirmation of the contract that is concluded over the phone. You know I've been calling for this for a long time, and if I've studied it correctly, this is beyond harmonisation. So I'm glad for that, because it really involves a lot of situations with us that someone says yes on the phone, even sometimes they cut it for him, and at that point the consumer has the consent. So here the consent will have to be confirmed by a written confirmation. Then it is an obligation to deliver the goods within 30 days. This, in turn, comes with complaints about too long delivery times. [[13.00 hours]] It is also changing there, ladies and gentlemen, that the burden of proof is reversed, or the consumer will be in a more favourable position. Six months today, a year. This means that it will be assumed that for one year the seller must prove that there was no defect of the product, not the buyer, the consumer. The other things, such as the application of the complaint, the hierarchy of redress for the defective performance of contracts and the provision of digital content, I will talk about it in the second or third reading, because I do not want to completely overwhelm you here for the first good, so that the education is full. So I'm going to go back to the second part of the changes, and that's the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, as I said, it's shared. Maybe they're dealing with the double quality of food... Sorry, double product quality in general, goods. That means this law, including fines, solves this. Another big shot is consumer protection in the online environment. For example - and this is not just about online purchases - the lowest price at which the product has been sold in the last 30 days will be quoted at discounts, which is a reaction to the fact that it is being manipulated by consumers in the form of discount events where consumers are actually misled because they feel that if something is 60% discount, but he does not know if it was being sold at all for any such original amount, it is, of course, tempting to sell. So that's another thing I think useful. As regards consumer protection in the online environment, it is particularly a ban on false reviews. You know that I, too, in the context of education and the dissemination of financial literacy, advise everyone to enter all things and offers in the context of a review, especially on the Internet, but obviously the traders and those who offer services know this too, so that artificial reviews, false reviews appear more and more and more, and here you can somehow... So I'd like to see a little question mark on this one, then in practice, how to ban fake reviews, how to enforce it. I'm saying this quite frankly, but I take it again, just like the world's big part to tell these people that even if they find a review on the Internet, it really doesn't come from it, that he's a real person who's really happy with the service, and that the other consumer is supposed to follow it. Another big change is more rights in unfair business practice, that's how I wrote it down. This means easier access to redress for victims of unfair practices. It seems to me that it is quite essential to support consumers who are always in a weaker position in these matters. Those consumers should have easier access to redress by giving them the right to withdraw from such a contract within 90 days of its conclusion or to request an appropriate discount, in addition to the protection provided for in the Civil Law. That means that all of this, and these things are here next, for example, using abusive arrangements becomes a misdemeanor and so on. I'm going to introduce it to other readings. In the third reading, however, I would also ask the Ministry that we would create a diagram for consumers, such a clear guide to changes, so that the things that I have described here on three, on four pages point so that people know exactly what the consumer protection law and the Civil Code are changing in which their rights are increased. So I don't know if the Minister of Justice can give this message to the Minister of Industry in any way, because this seems to me, in terms of procedure and vote, this is a non-controversial standard, but I think it's because he's uncontroversial that he can sail through the House without the interest of the wider public and the media. So I would really ask that the Ministry - and I would like to cooperate on this - prepare an overview of the most significant changes that are changing, how the consumer's position is changing, where it can be called, how the deadlines are changing, because there is a confusion in those times. It's one of the most common questions that citizens ask me about. So much in brief, I took it briefly, this print 213. And I'm assuming that the Minister, if, in the meantime, he may have found out about the deadlines and the shortening, we can move on. [[Notes from the diaper.]] What?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the news report. At this point, my fellow Members, I take the floor in the proceedings of the meeting that, under the Government's authority, the proposal was presented to us by Deputy Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek and the rapporteur Patrik Nacher. At this point, I would like to open a general debate to which the Minister of Justice claims with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u6	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say that Síkela's colleague is at the Senate meeting, which is why he is not here. That doesn't mean he doesn't want to come, but he can't split. Secondly, I would like to say and thank my colleague Nacher for pointing out that, if this law is not discussed in time, there is really a threat of sanctions from the European Union. This means that I propose and propose that all deadlines be reduced to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u7	So cut the deadline to 30 days. Thank you. I am once again stating that we are in a general debate. I'm going to ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? Patrik Nacher is still reporting for the general debate, okay. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u8	Thank you. I don't know if the petitioner can propose this shortening of the deadline, so I'm suggesting that it's duplicated for those 30 days. This is the first point for committee discussions. I'd be happy to do so. And second point, because I didn't end up here saying goodbye because some MPs were yelling at me about the news report, so I think I just made the news report the way I'm supposed to be doing it, maybe for someone more thorough, because that's my business. I think it's better than referring to the fact that you must know the text, so read it yourself. So next time I'd ask you colleagues not to yell at me here, if I may ask, because as I explained here, I did it not only to explain it to you, but to use this non-conflict press to make an enlightenment for consumers. Otherwise, we're gonna approve something here, no one's gonna know about it, it's gonna go through the sněmovna with three readings, and it's not gonna help those people. So I thank you for your respect for being honest about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u9	Thank you, and I am now stating that I have given the floor with priority right to the Minister of Justice, who has presented a reduction of the deadline for 30 days here, and at the same time Mr Patrik Nacher has also presented this deadline for shortening. Your performance brought up one point of fact. I would like to ask Mr. Michal Kučera to come to the speaker's desk. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would only briefly respond to Mr Nacher's words here. I don't know who was shouting, maybe someone did, but this wasn't really a news report. Well, now that we're here today, we're mastering what the news is supposed to be like, neither is it. The greater part of your speech was to be heard in the general debate, the greater part, so that we could continue to respond to this, even by factual remarks or other speeches. The intelligence report is supposed to look completely different. I think that we should all study this, especially the ANO colleagues who have mastered us here, how the parliamentary reports are supposed to look. Not like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u11	Thank you for keeping time. We have other factual points. At this point, I would like to ask Mrs Zuzana Ožanová to come to the speaker's desk and prepare Mr Robert králíček. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u12	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, you know, my previous speaker said something about mastering. Perhaps if you had listened to Mr Kolář, you would have found out that he had finally apologized and that it was not masterful, he was not really prepared. And if you call this mastering, when we point out that someone isn't doing their job, then I don't know what you're imagining under what you're supposed to do here. Are we supposed to sit, keep quiet, do nothing? Is that your idea of reporting? I really don't! And if anyone's more thorough, then they are. You're not thorough, you just need two words, you just need a political declaration. We're dealing with the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u13	Thank you for keeping time. We have two more factual points. At this point, I will ask Mr Robert králíček to prepare Mr Patrik Nacher. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u14	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, will also not be able to respond to Mr Kučera, through the President. I would politely ask him what right he criticized Mr. Nacher, and what exactly did he mind? Where are the clear rules, how many sentences is the news report supposed to have? So what did Mr. Nacher do? Because what he said here didn't seem relevant to me either to have reason to criticize Mr. Nacher. And if he has a problem signing up for a general debate where no one is enrolled and making comments on the law or the news report here, then let him do it. I mean, no one's in it for him... in the debate that he says he can't lead here on the grounds that Mr. Nacher had a long intelligence report... So, Mr Kučera, tell us how many minutes our intelligence reports are supposed to have, through Madam President, I apologize to you for not being touched, so tell us how many minutes it should have, so we don't bother you with the fact that we're even allowed to appear here in the news reports. That's not really what a democratic debate looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u15	Thank you for keeping time. We have another factual point here, and Mr Patrik Nacher is signing up with that. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u16	Thank you for the floor. I must say, I am as shocked as I am, yes, as Mr Kučera said here. I may have linked the news report to do it this way next time, and it'll be twice as long, and you'll be happy. I'm gonna do a news report, then I'm gonna turn myself in and say it again, as a reporter, I'm gonna show you through it. So, as with the crazy, I'm gonna talk twice, take twice as much time. Then you come to the mike and say I'm pulling it out. I said it in all my favor here in one speech. I have yet to remind you of the shortening of the time limits, because there is no proper minister here. And you're obviously returning some of the situation that was here. I was excused until 13:00 today. I don't know that some correspondent here said we should study it ourselves. I don't know who he was or what, how exactly did he do it... but I recorded that sentence. And now you're coming back through me for taking the liberty of pointing this out. So the fact that I showed you around here once, it was all about the press 2013, I hope that even all coalition MPs will be objectively recognized here, so one gets beat up for it. I'd really like to know what the ideal procedure should be for you not to perform. For me, it's such an awkward revenge that's taking place here. But next time, I'll do it in second, third reading. I'll make you happy. Let's do it twice as much. I'll take that challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u17	Thank you for keeping time, and I will remind you that we are discussing the bill on consumer protection. We have another factual point with which Mr Miloslav Janulík is registered. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Unfortunately, at Margo's co-worker Kučera, through you, it's been so long since I've been here as a memorial. And I also remember the time when my colleague Kučera, through Madam President, used to call us schmucks. So even that can be traced back to the records. So if there's a master here, it's Mr. Kučera. Because if the rapporteur is reporting here, he's just doing his job, calling it a masterpiece, that's really, really, really upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u19	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, I have no factual point. But I'll allow myself to read two apologies. Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, apologizes today between 13 and 13.30 for reasons of work and further apologizes to Mrs Barbora Urbanová, on 14 October. 7. to 15. 7. For family reasons. At this point, I note that we are still in the general debate. No one is registered in writing. I'm gonna ask around the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in? I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in the final words from the plaintiff? It's not. The rapporteur's side? Is there an interest in the final word? [[Member Nacher says something, but he doesn't want to go to the microphone.]] So let me ask you, rapporteur, are you interested in the final word? [[No.]] You don't. I'm of the opinion that there's been a motion to shorten the deadline to 30 days. There was no other suggestion. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'm gonna sing. I note that the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Is there a motion to check out? Yes, I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you all to sign up with your voting cards. Now, when the number of Members is settled, I will allow myself to take a vote. I will read: Who, then, agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the economic committee as a guarantee? Initiating vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained in the vote? I note that 121 Members were enrolled in the 129 vote, 121 were in favour, no one opposed, no one stayed. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I'll ask if anyone has a motion for the next committee's commandment? I see Mr. Robert králíček reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u20	I would also like to propose a constitutionally-legal committee and a committee on public administration and regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-15-ps2021-025-06-006-031.u21	Thank you. Is there any other proposal? Anyone here? He's not reporting. So we will have to deal with two votes, and that is the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We will now vote on the commandment as another committee, not a guarantee, which means a constitutionally-legal committee. Do we all know what we're going to vote on? Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? I note that 125 Members were enrolled in the 130 vote, 114 against 2, 9 abstained. The motion was accepted. This means that this House press will still be ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee. [[13.20 hours]] Another vote that we will have to deal with is that there is still a proposal for this House's press to be directed to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. We all know what we're going to vote on. I am now opening the vote. Who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? 131 Members were put in the vote, 57 were in favour, 11 opposed, 63 abstained, and the proposal was not accepted. Now we will have to deal with one more vote and there has been a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days for committee discussions, so we will vote on that at this point. I am now opening the vote. Whoever is in favour of proposing a 30-day cutback, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? And who abstained? I note that 135 Members were enrolled in the 132 vote, 114 were in favour, no one opposed, 21 abstained, the proposal was accepted. So there will be a reduced hearing period for 30 days. We've dealt with all the votes, I'm done discussing this point. I would like to thank the Minister representing the Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister Pavel Blažek, and rapporteur Patrik Nacher. Do you want to get off again, Mr. Secretary? [[Minister Blažek is ready for the next item.]] Okay, thank you. So I'm done discussing this point. Now, at this point, I would like to read one more apology that I have received at the moment, and that is the excuse of the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, from this day on, from 12.45 to 13.30 for work reasons. And now, according to the approved agenda of the meeting, I would like to start point number
