ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your identification cards or to tell me who you wish to vote with your replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 16th meeting on 10 March of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to keep your voice down so that we can address the first item, or the first vote that awaits us. I'm begging my colleagues across the room. If you have anything... In order to proceed to the vote on the verifiers of this meeting, I propose that we designate Mr Ondřej kolář and Mr Michal Zuna. Does anyone else have a proposal for a verifier to meet the Chamber of Deputies? I don't see anyone. I am opening the vote on the proposal submitted by the verifiers. I'm asking who's in favor of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? Voting number one, 130 Members and Members have signed up, for 123, against none. I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated Mr Ondřej kolář and Mr Michal Zuna as verifiers of the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their non-Participation by the following Members: Babiš Andrej for work reasons, Bačíková Jana for work reasons, Balaš Vladimír today by 23.45 hours for work reasons, Balaštíková Margita health reasons, Bělor Roman within 15 hours for work reasons, Benešík Ondřej for health reasons, Blaha Stanislav - personal reasons, Dufek Aleš - work reasons, Feranec Milan - health reasons, Fifka Petr - foreign trip, Šimon Šimon - personal reasons, Horák Jiří from 16 to 18 hours for work reasons, Jakob Jan for health reasons, Kašník Pavel - health reasons, Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka - health reasons, pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava - family reasons, Smetana Karel - health reasons, Šimek David - health reasons, Špičák Julius - health reasons, Vích Radovan - health reasons, Vích Radovan - health reasons, Vojtko Viktor abroad. From the members of the government apologized: Bek Mikuláš - foreign trip, Jurečka Marian - foreign trip, Kupka Martin - foreign trip, Langšádlová Helena - no reason. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Madam, gentlemen, I will ask you once again to keep your voice down. [[He's ringing the bell.]] Apparently, the bell doesn't work. However, I am asking those who are debating - and I am about to start saying specific names, whether they are Members or Ministers - to move their debates into the foyer. We will now proceed to the draft agenda of the 16th meeting as stated on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. Firstly, we propose the following procedure this week. [[Still a lot of noise in the hall.]] I think that this is important information, co-workers and colleagues, and there is a great deal of these proposals, so I recommend you once again to keep your voice down, even to the ministers who are debating here. I'm not gonna call out like I did at school, but he's the Minister of Education who could keep his voice down. I ask others to do so. Thank you. Tomorrow, Wednesday, 23 March, we will begin with item 1, House press 43. It is the Government's bill amending Act No. 78/2004 Coll., on the treatment of genetically modified organisms and genetic products, as amended, second reading. Then we will proceed with the items according to the draft agenda. At 1:30 p.m., securely place the electoral block. It would be points 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85 and 86. The election results would be announced on Thursday 24 March at the beginning of our meeting. On Thursday 24 March, given that paragraph 108, i.e. the Government's replies to written interpelations, is not fulfilled to date at 14 o'clock, we will not be dealing with it. The Grémium proposes the following negotiating procedure for this day. The negotiations shall be initiated by the announced announcement of the results of the elections and the following items shall be followed: - point 105, House press 180, Government proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence within the multinational NATO fighting group in the Slovak Republic; - points from the contract block, second reading: paragraph 64, House press 42, paragraph 65, House press 44, and paragraph 66, House press 45; - points from the contract block, first reading: from point 69 to point 74. These are House prints 135, 142, 149, 155, 156 and 157. Secondly, in conclusion, we propose to sort points from the first reading block as follows: - Paragraph 22, House Press 173, Government Bill on Tax Measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops; - point 24, House press 176, Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties; - point 2, House press 30, the Video Sharing Platform Service Act; - point 3, House print 31, in short, the copyright law; - paragraph 4, House press 76, once again the Government's proposal for a road bill; - point 5, Parliamentary Press 151, Government proposal on phytosanitary care; - point 6, House Press 67, Government Bill on Antarctica; - paragraph 7, House press 174, a government law concerning significant market power; - paragraph 14, House press 139, once again, the Government's bill, which we briefly call in legal connection with the use of digital tools and procedures in company law; - finally, paragraph 23, House press 175, which is a short-term government bill on international judicial cooperation. That's all I have to say about the Gremium agreement. Now, Madam Members, I would like you to comment on the proposal for a programme. The first party to this debate on the agenda is President Okamura, the next one is President Benda. Please, Prime Minister Okamura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose as the first item in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies a point entitled Political entrepreneurship of the STAN movement. The MEP and Vice-President of the government movement STAN Stanislav Polčák demanded an eight-million-dollar commission, in the words of eight million crowns, for helping enforce the law indemnifying the village around Vrbětice in Zlinsk due to explosions. So the government's STAN movement is dealing with laws? I remember Mr Polčák lobbying here for this law, for which we all voted unanimously, but he forgot to tell us here that he lobbied for the law, that he wanted to collect CZK 8 million out of public money. This is for an immediate resignation from the position of MEP! And we are in a situation - and I am not surprised - when the Minister of the Interior, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement agree quietly, because the President of the STAN movement did not call on the Vice-President of the STAN movement Stanislav Polčák to give the mandate of the MEP. Because this kind of political corruption where someone gets paid millions to enforce the law, well, I've never really seen it here before. The STAN Vít Austrian movement appears to be a political business project in the light of this information, and it is not the first case, it is another business case of this movement. Recall STAN's non-transparent sponsors from Cyprus, a tax haven in Cyprus, associated with Rakušanův's associate from STAN Věslav Michalik, who is also Vice-President of STAN, so another co-founder of the STAN movement. According to what we know from public information, the co-founder of the STAN movement is Petr Gazdík, who has already claimed his word, but he has not yet received any such case personally, according to what we know from the media. Maybe, we'll see. But Mr. Rakušan is here, and Mr. Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN movement, has not explained to this day, and we have been asking for six months to say the names of the natural persons who are the final owners of companies in Cyprus in tax havens who sponsored the election campaign of the STAN and Pirates movement. The pirates don't ask any more questions because they've gotten the ministries, failed members of the pirát have been given the post of political deputy, and the pirát aren't talking anymore, they're just at the corsets, so they don't ask questions anymore. But why doesn't Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who played Mr. čistý in quotes? So was Mr. Vít Rakušan. Why don't they ask why Petr Fiala is silent and comment on this repeated case of the STAN movement, repeated cases? Because - I say again, Vít Rakušan has not yet clarified and refuses to say who the natural persons are, the end owners of companies in the tax havens in Cyprus that sponsored their election campaign. And this is the Home Secretary? First Deputy Prime Minister? And Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS is silent because he's either weak and has no strength to say anything, or he just doesn't want to, because he agrees. So it is a famous Czech proverb: Silence is consent, so the Prime Minister agrees. But Věslav Michalik, he is also Vice-President of the STAN movement. These are the top leaders of this movement, which co-founded this movement, according to the information that is circulating. Then there is Mr Farský, also a man from the highest leadership of the STAN movement, who again tricked the voters, even though in the electoral treaty STAN promised to devote themselves fully to the mandate of a Member, so he lied to the voters, and he finally gave a mandate to the media and the public, because before the elections he knew - and so did Petr Fiala, the Prime Minister, as he admitted, knew that there would be a fooling of voters here, and he knew that he would go to America, that he would go to the US, that he would go to work in the US, instead of working as a Member - so only after the enormous pressure that Mr Farský had laid down here last month, that mandate. So it was another one of the top representatives of the STAN movement. The shocking thing about the whole thing is that Mr Stanislav Polčák, Vice-President of the STAN movement and MEP, has said nearly CZK 8 million for helping enforce the law. It seems, and there are more examples, that politics is just business and business for STAN policies. Stanislav Polčák should, of course, resign immediately. But neither does the Chairman of the STAN movement, the Minister of the Interior and the first Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan call him to do so and neither does Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Why would I? The catfish don't want to dump their pond together. Moreover, the mayors of the affected municipalities in Zlinsko now say that they did not know how much the MEPs would have to allocate to STAN Polčák from public money for his reward. It is said that Polčák did not present the amount to them until the last few days, and they are unpleasantly surprised by the amount. But mostly in a situation where everything is getting more expensive here, people have no energy, people have no basic life needs, and according to the figures of the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences, the number of newly launched executions this year has increased by 40 percent compared to the situation six months ago and according to the same Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences - and the article was at Novinky, so everyone can look at it, it is a few days old article - 30 percent of Czech households are at risk of financially increasing, so they can fall into executions, so at this time completely unnervingly, heartlessly and ugly, the Vice-President of STAN Stanislav Polčák and the MEP will say almost 8 million crowns of taxpayers' money for lobbying the law. I'd like to challenge... Vít Rakušan is not here, but the Minister of Education and others are about to speak, I suspect the Vice-President of the STAN movement is also, Petr Gazdík, if you would promise us publicly in your speech, that you will present all legal matters, all legal cases by which MEP Stanislav Polčák was in a situation where he was also a Member of the European Parliament and at the same time carries out legal activities, as all contracts are with municipalities and public authorities. Submit it, present it publicly. And I call on Petr Gazdík, because Mr Rakušan is not here for a reason, the President, but there is a two-way STAN movement, Petr Gazdík, to present you here to promise that within a week, within a fortnight, you will present all the contracts and all the contractual relations that Stanislav Polčák has as a lawyer, for whom he is engaged, for which municipalities, for which authorities and how much he collects from public money. Because now that it's accidentally leaked out here that he's asked for nearly CZK 8 million to enforce the law, it's in the public interest that we all know who he's working for so that he can judge the public if by chance - and he's collecting for sure, I suppose, in my opinion, that he's collecting more and more money, and if he didn't accidentally file for any other laws. If he hasn't filed for any other laws, maybe you've been vehemently enforcing the tax bill. And I'll do it as an example -- maybe yeah, maybe not. And the question is, did STAN's exponents also cash in a lot of money from someone? Maybe it's an example. I remember that it was just one of the laws you were lobbying for here. You said it was for the community, for the citizens. [[14.20 hours]] And what I'm asking is, has anybody from the STAN movement actually cashed in any public money? And I don't know. Now we're talking specifically about the $8 million. And once again, the question must continue, because Mr Polčák said yesterday, after the pressure, that he would give up 8 million. Originally he wanted them, now he doesn't want them after the public pressure, when it was brought to the attention, or he would have cashed them out. But he said his colleagues were gonna cash in on the money. So what kind of wheels are they talking about? And won't he get any money out of it, too? We also heard he already billed the deposit. So what's with the backup? Will he return it? Isn't he going to return it? Or is he going to cash it out of public money now that you keep saying how the budget is in deficit? Your entire government five-calice said how the budget is in deficit, in debt, and now one of the top officials of the government five-calice ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates, will ask for $8 million. So I think it would be good here to make it clear how it is. And let's also remember that the STAN movement has more of those question marks, of course. And I know the police are saving it so far, according to my information. But let us remind you that a friend of Vít Rakušan, lawyer Tomáš Kasal, took millions without a tender from Kolín City Hall when Rakušan was the mayor of Cologne. Moreover, Kasal was reported to be a convicted plagiarist. This means that the STAN movement appears to be a political business project in the light of this information. And once again, it is necessary, and I would like to propose here, and I hope that the government's five-wheelers will support it, I would like to propose as point number one, a point called Political Business of the STAN movement. I really remember Mr Stanislav Polčák and Vice-President of the STAN movement, who has been around us many times with various proposals, with laws, and, as you know, he lobbied here for the bill of compensation for Vrbětice, and we supported it. But he didn't tell any of us the important B that he was going to collect 8 million out of it, but from the budget of small towns in Zlinsko. These are the communities where I was the senator, where I won the Senate election. I know them all, you community. I know that place, I met a lot of citizens there. These are all my communities, I'd say in the quotes of my senate district, where I won the Senate elections and joined politics. So it's not some... it's not some community I don't know. I know these people. I know people in the neighborhood. That's where my family came from, from my mother's side, from the Zlín Region. And that the top representative of the STAN movement in these tiny villages - where life is not easy, in Slovácko, in Zlinsko, near the Slovak border, it is not rich Prague - so there would be such a nasty parasite on public budgets and want to rob citizens of the Czech Republic of 8 million into their own pocket, when they have, when they collect a salary in the order of millions as MEPs, it is a disgusting thing that I never imagined that someone like that could be in the government of this five-calice. But I'm kind of starting to think of it gradually because I can see how you're acting. And it's mostly about the STAN movement, I have to say. These financial machinations and transactions, it turns out that the main businessmen and political businessmen - and we see the purpose for which the STAN movement was founded - are primarily related to the STAN movement. That means, I think that many representatives of the STAN movement, perhaps Members and mayors who are here for the STAN movement, must also be ashamed of this case, that it must be awfully unpleasant for you. I believe that many of you are certainly trying to do your job honestly, but the fact that the second highest-ranking person in the STAN movement collects in this way and wants to collect money from public money, I do not think we can just leave it unnoticed, so my proposal will be put to the vote in a moment. I'm curious to see how the government's five-calibers stand up to it. And I hope you'll support this so we can discuss this here. And here again I will repeat my request that Stanislav Polčák should submit - and I hope that Petr Gazdík here will invite him to do so, and that he will provide us with this - he should submit during the mandate of the MEP, he has been the MEP for quite a long time, all the contracts where he collected money from state money, public money, he should submit so that the public can assess how much he collected from - because it is by far not the only contract I am looking at and as I have read public statements - so that it can be seen exactly how much goes into this person's pocket under the guise of wannabe positive things here. It means it's a conflict of interest, it's a conflict of interest absolutely incredible. I think the police should investigate. I think the police and the D.A. should investigate. When rumors spread about me tunneling Dawn, the police investigated me, returned twice to the D.A.'s office to investigate in detail, all my accounts, and eight years ago it turned out that it was a lie and a rumor. I mean, almost everyone here spit on me, and no one apologized to me, but okay, so the same subway would be good to get through. And, of course, the rumors haven't been confirmed, but, of course, those who have nothing on me, they're trying to talk about it over and over again, the presumption of guilt, innocence. That's a five-calice here and some of their deputies and fans don't give a damn. As well as when I've been here for my last term... You tried to call me off here, the five-wheeler, from Vice-President of the House, something about a camp in Lety. My statements were investigated by the police, she had expert opinions, and they found out that I didn't say anything illegally. And they said I told the truth about the reviews. So, once again, the deed has escaped, and I'd already be called off if it was on a five-wheeler. So that's your style, always bullying, lying, huh? Call it misinformation something that's true, okay? I am not surprised that our MP Jaroslav Bašta, who is the only signatory of the Charter here and was the only Member who has been in prison for two years under the previous regime, is not enough to stare at what is going on here under this five-wheeler. Censorship, opinion bullying, restricting personal freedom, okay? So not like this! That means I'd like it to be measured on all the same subway. And now it would be good for the STAN and Mr Polčák to explain. Well, they should explain it by voting that point here. If you don't vote for that point, representatives of the government's five-wheeler, it's clear, it's just confirmed that it's your style. That it's your style, that it is. It also relates to yesterday's trip to Dubai, where President Pekarová was, Mr Skopeček and some others were probably there. We'll ask for the House's leadership, the SPD will request a list of all participants, a list of all participants in this trip, because here Mr. Michálek of the pirát has called on citizens to save their lives so that citizens can mute their heating, Mr. Michálek of the pirát has called on citizens to save their way of taking the thermos. I looked into it myself a while ago, he's wearing it himself, so he sets an example... [[Laughs and applause from SPD members and YES.]] ...and I don't know if he turned down the heat. However, of course, citizens do not have your parliamentary salary, Mr Member, which means, not everyone has the money to buy some thermos and other things. But I wanted to say one thing back to that. You said to save money, and even Mr. Síkela, Minister of Industry, said if I remember correctly, people should drive less. I think the Prime Minister said they should drive less. I don't understand that at all. No - President Pekarová said so too, I think it should be less riding. It runs in the new BMW 7 series and the gas is paid by the state. So she calls on the citizens - if she should at least keep quiet - but she drinks wine and preaches water. [[14.30 hours]] And now we're asking why, since there was already a large government delegation in Dubai this year, Mr. Síkela was there with a large delegation to the Expo, yes, there was a Minister of Industry Síkela, there he was, so why are we going there again in such a short time? And that's the savings you make, that's the coordination of the work you've always called for, that you're driving one by one? By the way, there's also talk about it, but that's why we want the list that your husband, Madam President of the House, was there with you. I'm asking, I'm just asking, I don't know. There's a rumor that you went back to some government special and that your husband was sitting there. These are all questions that I don't know how it is, but we're gonna ask about them. So you'll get a written letter from us from the SPD movement, an open letter, which, of course, we're going to publish, and we're going to want a list of all the participants who were there, and how it was exactly with the trip. You don't have to write the contents of the trip, because that the government delegation of the Minister of Industry was there recently, we already know that, and that you were at the Expo, there was Mr.Síkela with a big delegation of business there recently, yeah, so we all know that now. While you may write a few sentences about such things, the main thing is that you call for savings, you call on people to limit riding, your government, you drive yourself in a new BMW. When I was in charge of the House, I was the only one who said I was driving in škodovka, the only one that I used to drive in the shelter, okay? And there was also a chance to drive a BMW - the only one I said I wouldn't drive a BMW, I wouldn't drive a Škoda. You drive the newest BMW for millions and tell people, enjoy the luxury of the House president, full of sips...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u3	Through me. It's strange, but you should address me through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u4	Yes, by your presidency. Even your predecessor Hamáček, he also said that the BMW would not ride, and he took the damage claim. You have the option, but you enjoy the luxury with a full sip, and you ride in the newest seven-line beamer, even though you can ride in the Škoda. This is your lifestyle, President Pekarová, through you. You're sucking public money to the bone, getting your food brought up with the gold, with the silver hatch. Of course I do! We all know that. You don't even eat in the dining room downstairs with us. With the hatch, you bring food to the waiter to open it for you like this. And tell me you don't - we all know you do. That's your lifestyle, that's your savings. It's disgusting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u5	Then I'll read some more apologies. Minister Nekula apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons, Minister Rakušan from 14:00 to 18:00 without giving any reason. The next one is registered by President Benda with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after Mr Okamura's more fierce opening speech, I will try to calm the situation a little bit and only make proposals for the vote. The first is because we did not fully understand each other on the political grémium with President Fiala, so I would just ask the President, from what she has said as a proposal for a political grémium, to vote separately on points 2 and 3, that is, the House of Presses 30 and 31, and then point 66, which is the House Press 45, to the places where it was proposed from the Gremium, but because it was a request for a separate vote, I will ask the President to vote on this separately. I would also suggest that, tomorrow, Wednesday, the first and second points of our negotiations, that is, before the point proposed from the political grémia, before the second reading, those points should be included in the third reading, that is to say, point 77, House press 86, criminal code, and point 78, House press 68, payment service. Those two points would begin, then the current point 1, the second reading, the handling of genetically modified food would continue, and then the laws would normally continue at first reading as they were ordered. The next proposal for the first reading I would like to make is after point 23, which is proposed from Gremia, logically in the first readings must follow point 8, the construction law, because all the points before it are exhausted - so I do not propose to assign it, it just logically belongs there. All I'm suggesting is that we vote that if this point 8, building law, House press 137, was not launched by Friday 9 a.m., then Friday at 9 a.m., we will begin it. I firmly believe that the previous points will pass, that we will get to him sometime tomorrow morning, and therefore it will be possible to continue it on Friday. But if it wasn't launched by Friday 9 a.m. to do so. Furthermore, I propose that we add to the Thursday's programme, as has been said from Gremia: the first point is point 105, House press 180, that is to send soldiers to Slovakia, after adding points such as point 2, paragraph 75, House press 178, an international treaty that states the agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, paragraph 76, House press 179, the same thing, the agreement on the establishment of the International Investment Bank, this would be points 2 and 3 and point 4, and then continue with the proposals made by the President of Gremia - point 4 would be paragraph 63, the European Union's matter, the government proposal to the Chamber of Deputies for prior approval to the proposal for a Council regulation amending the Council regulation on the establishment of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, the Parliament's press 98/E. Then Thursday would look like the first to be the Slovák, sending troops to Slovakia, two statements of international banking agreements, this point 63 and then following the contracts as read by the President. I hope that my proposals are clear and correspond to the will of the Gremium, as has been said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u7	Yes, it's understandable. Thank you. Minister Gazdík is now registered with priority rights. The next enrollment is Mr. Chairman Excellent. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u8	Madam President, honourable Members, I am not acting as a minister right now, but as the other man of the party, as Mr Okamura said, although he also said that the other man of the party is a colleague of Polčák, so one of us certainly is. I'll take a few words for the mayors and independent of this matter. Please, let us separate two things from each other, and that is compensation for the municipalities and their citizens, and the second thing is a reward for an attorney. The first thing, she voted in favour of compensation for the municipalities of the entire House. These people enjoyed the explosions in the warehouses behind which Russian agents were behind. Let us agree that the last House did it right and that the compensation of municipalities and citizens was correct. Most of you who were in the last House voted in favour, among other things. And now the reward. I refuse that it's a commission for some law being passed. Any commission is for legal services and a colleague, Polčák, to cut off any doubts, has given up his reward, so there is no commission for him. We also reject the fact that the mayors of the municipalities concerned did not know and were unpleasantly surprised. That's not true at all, and it's evidence of the mayor's statements themselves. Please find it and read it. One last thing. Allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Chamber of Mayors and Independents. STAN MP's decision yesterday by Stanislav Polčák to renounce the reward for work in favour of the villages affected by the explosions in Vrbětice is correct and only possible. [[14.40 hours]] Secondly, it is clearly unacceptable, in our view, to give the impression that he was given this reward for his work by politics, that is not true, and we appreciate the work that he has done for the benefit of the affected communities, their inhabitants. However, we are pleased that yesterday's decision put an end to the suspicion of conflict of interest in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, too. Now, with priority rights, the President is Excellent. President Okamura is also reporting, but before him was with the priority right registered by Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová, and we are not in the debate, so I am erasing Mr Okamura's factual comment because it is not possible to apply it under the Rules of Procedure. Please, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Excellent... So President Výborný wants to prefer Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u10	Thank you so much for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I would also like to place a point at today's meeting and touch on what Tomio Okamura has already been talking about and at this point Mr Gazdík. I would like to call this point Compensation of municipalities in the case of Vrbětice and commissions to Stanislav Polčák, MEPs and Chairman of the Association of Local Authorities. I would like to say that you have all probably registered this case in the media yesterday, which has already been mentioned here at this time, that because the law was passed here in the Chamber of Deputies last year - and it is a good thing that it was passed - the law on compensation, although the general law could have been applied, but it came through here and it came into force and effective last August, yesterday on the basis of the media noise and all that began to happen, Mr.Polčák came to deny his rewards as a politician and that the work of his colleagues would be paid... Does that mean that the funds will go to my colleagues, and that means Mr. Polčák at the same time? I would just like to say that in 2017, Mr Polčák was not the chairman of the Association of Local Authorities until 2021. I'm sure you all know what the Local Authority Association is. It is an organization that defends the interests of mayors, mayors, mayors, even if most of them are in the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and everyone who is members of the Association of Local Authorities pays a member's contribution. For this member contribution, the organisation shall represent them, assist them and assist them in legal matters. And I would like to know at this moment the opinion of the new President of the Association of Local Authorities - I do not know if it has changed precisely because of the reason for the payment of the reward, namely Eliška Olšáková, who has also been a Member and President since 2022. There's a lot of mayors here. You all know how you can be defended by the Union of Towns and Villages. I'm sure you remember when they fought under the compensatory bonus to return funds to cities and municipalities. Well, the Union of Cities and Municipalities will also come and charge for each community that they have won in the framework of the compensation bonus that the Union of Cities and Municipalities should receive? That's impossible. Look at the media performances. January 2022, Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan says: We have already paid out 14 million. Great cooperation between the mayors of the affected municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities... So who negotiated this? Association of Local Authorities. And I want to say one thing. If it is now happening that the reward was proposed a month ago, it came out in the Collection of Laws in August and it gave a clear appeal to what time it must be paid, then all the mayors know that any action and power of attorney must be approved by the authority of the municipality or the city. And I am asking about the resolutions that have taken place at the moment in those three municipalities where the reward has already been approved, so what has been approved, on what basis has it been approved, is it possible to approve this? After all, see what Mr. Mayor Slavičín said, who will receive the compensation of CZK 104 million: "They proposed the reward a month ago, there was nothing on paper in advance or no one told us about it. " And that, I hope, speaks for it all. And if we're gonna say that my colleagues are gonna take it -- well, if my colleagues are gonna take it, I'm gonna take it. And I say again, it was all arranged by the Association of Local Authorities. And if you look at all the media outputs, this is how it was presented. I think that the payment of this compensation is now under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior, which is gradually paying out and also has a supervisory authority, supervisory department and control in its Ministry, which should immediately begin control in the municipalities concerned regarding the resolutions adopted in the framework of payment of this remuneration, because I am not convinced that this is taking place in accordance with the municipal law. I would also like to say that this compensation affects five municipalities, but also the Zlín Region, so that you all realize that, and it also affects all people who live permanently in the territory concerned. So within the Zlín Region it is compensation of 59 million crowns, under Slavičín 104 million crowns, then there are Bohuslavice - 36 million, Vlachovice - 116 million, Lipová - 36 million and Haluzice - 16 million. I am convinced that this point should be included and that we should get all the relevant information. Therefore, not aggressively, but with humility and rationality, I say: let us put this point on Wednesday after the third readings, because I think it is really necessary for the Minister of the Interior to comment on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, too. Given the name of that point, I will then ask you in writing to have the full name. Mr Okamura, who I do not see here, is not here, and the President of the KDU-ČSL Club is not here at the moment, so I will move on to the other logged in in in writing. Mr. Mr. Novák. I'll ask Mr Novák. [[Mr Okamura, who entered the hall, is reporting in the next order.]] Yes, I understand, but I suggest you stay in the O.R. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from Vrbětice, MEP Polčák, former Head of SMS and member of the Bureau of the STAN movement. I would like to ask you to include a new point in this 16th meeting, called The Immoral Conduct and Abuse of the House of Parliament, as a member of the Bureau of STAN Stanislav Polčák in the Vrbětice case. The reason for this request is the unprecedented behaviour of MEP Stanislav Polčák, Vice-President of the STAN movement, the former Chairman of the Association of Local Authorities, who, during the period when the municipalities of the affected explosions in Vrbětice fought for compensation, offered them their services and contacts in order to obtain compensation for these municipalities concerned. At the time, however, no one knew what price Mr Polčák would charge and on what basis. Now we are talking about the commission of the circus of 8 million crowns Mr.Polčák wanted - now he doesn't want it again, now he wants a reward for his colleagues' work, we don't know what, we don't know what for. Okay, we'll see. According to Mr Polčák, the media first misinterpreted and subsequently renounced his fee. Well, then how much is the real compensation or reward for the law firm? Who gets it, and for what particular work? [[14.50 hours]] As co-president of the bill on compensation of Vrbětic and other municipalities, I know very well that the amendment was finalized by the legislation of the Ministry of the Interior. For the amendment in the last parliamentary term, all of you who are here in the following period have been raised outside the three absent Members. [[Hand]] In my opinion, all of them were used and abused by Mr Polčák for his financial benefit, and, yes, I admit, so was I. In negotiations with Mr Polčák, I was assured that he was doing this almost free of charge. And I am now asking: Did Mr Polčák actually offer his services to the municipalities at that time as a MEP, a politician, a chairman of the Association of Local Authorities, or a lawyer? Mr Polčák has connected several roles in an unprecedented way and, in addition to being Vice-President of the STAN movement and MEP, he is also an attorney. And just as a lawyer, he probably offered municipalities from the vicinity of Vrbětic to represent in the negotiations for compensation - as a politician and a person who has access to the Chamber of Deputies as well as us, at least in access to information. And it is this information and contacts that he subsequently decided to trade. And what's the evidence? I'm sure many of you who have been looking for a solution during that period and discussing the legal regulation that should compensate the municipalities will remember how Mr Polčák and I went around asking for support, and then not as a lawyer, but as a political representative of STAN. All the while, as a politician, he also confirmed us in the importance of adopting the Act on Compensation in the affected municipalities, and subsequently, as a lawyer, he will ask for a commission of almost 8 million. Fine. Isn't this about crossing all the limits and codes of this House? Shouldn't this pragmatic congress also be dealt with by the body of the Bar Association? How many former or current politicians with legal training are running around this country offering their services that they can trade through the Chamber of Deputies? Another huge problem with this case is the abuse of other members from the region, the abuse of mayors and the abuse of regional representatives. For example, in the municipality of Vlachovice, during the vote by the council on approval of the payout last week, opposition representatives informed that they felt that Mr Polčák was doing this for free as their supporter and as Chairman of the Association of Local Authorities. I was also assured from Mrs. Vice Mayor Monika Hubíková of Slavičín that they had no idea about the condition of the reward ahead, and now Polčákův's request is being assessed by their lawyer. I'm asking you, Members, is that okay? That Mr. Polčák literally traded enforcement of Act No. 326/2021 Coll., i.e. Act on one-off compensation of entities affected by extraordinary events in the premises of the ammunition warehouse Vlachovice-Vrbětice? Is that okay? Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to put this item on the agenda on Thursday as the first item. We must address this unprecedented situation immediately and stop it. This must never happen again. The House can't be abused for this. The credibility of both the House and Members as individuals is at risk. I do not take the illusion that coalition Members in particular will agree to this inclusion. But they will show themselves what they are capable of, and what they want in their secret souls behind all the kissing slogans for the citizens of this country. I therefore call once again, and above all, on Mr TOP 09, where Polčák was born, and on Mr STAN, where Polčák now dwells, so that they do not put their eyes on such a fundamental problem, because if such action goes unnoticed, this House will lose such little trust of citizens altogether. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u13	Mr. Ambassador, I'm just going to ask for the full title of the item if you'd be able to give it to me in writing. It would certainly be simplified from the point of view of the fact that the name is very long, so that I do not adjust that point to you in any way, as you would not wish. President Okamura's priority right is now, and Mr Výborný is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u14	I would have responded here to the Vice-President of the STAN movement and the Minister of Education Petr Gazdík, who apologized here a moment ago for the conduct of his colleague, Vice-President Stanislav Polčák, who demanded CZK 8 million for the enforcement of the law. Well, he was apologizing for saying that it was a contract, that he said he had a contract for it, that it was normal. Then why didn't he show us the contract before we voted on the bill? So why didn't the members of the STAN movement announce a conflict of interest here and tell us in advance, which they should - well, he's not a MP, he's a MEP, but if you were really decent and fair and those in quotes clean up who you play with, but you're not, then you'd be right here: our Vice-President of the STAN movement, if this law gets passed, he's supposed to get $8 million out of public money for it. But he didn't show the contract in advance. He didn't even inform us, the STAN movement, that the top representative of the STAN movement is supposed to cash 8 million crowns out of public money to enforce the law. So what you're saying here as a justification, maybe it would be better if you didn't say anything yet. But you actually admitted that you knew something, and you didn't admit it, and you lied to the entire Chamber of Deputies here. That's what you do, normal political businessmen, that's all. STAN's political business project. And they say that - you praise Mr Polčák, Vice-President of the STAN movement and MEP, for giving up his reward yesterday. But he didn't give up the reward until the media blew it! Then he said he'd give it up. However, he also added that his colleagues will instigate, so I ask that it would be good to say whether Mr Polčák has something to say about what they are going to do. What was it about the deposit he said he billed, or he sent an invoice, which Mr Polčák, the MEP himself said? And, of course, I repeat that it would be good, and I have not heard it from your mouth again, so I ask again the Vice-President of the STAN movement - because Mr Rakušan is not here, Chairman of the STAN movement, Minister of the Interior - so again I lack the answer to the question, Mr Gazdiku - I can address the Minister directly - so I lack the answer to the question, Mr Gazdík, Vice-President of the STAN movement, if you ask your colleague Polčák - but I just don't care if you ask, if you do not ask - if STAN, who has always asked everyone here for not being transparent, whether you will submit a list of orders to Mr Polčák and his law firm, which he is doing for public money, for all the time that he is an MEP. So that the entire public can take a picture - even here in the House - of how much your Vice-President Stanislav Polčák has cashed out of public money. Because if he did it this way, it could really be at least millions, if not tens of millions, and that's what needs to be known and compared to what the STAN movement lobbied for in the past, what it advocated. [[15.00 hours]] That is why we are asking repeatedly here, and for this was even convened extraordinary meetings signed by members of the SPD and the ANO movement, the only two opposition parties who are here, there are no more, and we wanted to know the funding of the STAN movement, which means the names of the end owners of companies from the Cyprus tax havens that sponsored your campaign. There are rumors that they are businessmen who do business in municipalities where STAN's politicians are in charge to move the question a little bit. And you know it, Mr. Gazdík, and many of us know it. But I'd like to hear those names from you. You know them very well, those names. You know very well who sponsors you, Mr. Petr Gazdík, you just don't want to say it. And so does Mr. Rakušan. You know very well who the end owners of these companies are, and you even know why they're sponsoring you, and that maybe it's the very municipalities and cities where you're in charge that maybe they have different spaces and things like that. You know that very well, so you're normal political businessmen. And I want you to say who the end owners of those companies that sponsored your campaign, the Pirates campaign and the STAN movement are. It's six months after the election, and you don't and don't say it, you don't want to admit it. And I think after Mr. Polčák showed up here, we need to say it. And Prime Minister Petr Fiala? Prime Minister, you're sitting behind me. Why don't you ask if you're Mr. čistý and you're playing at it? Now you're shaking your head that you're not. [[Prime Minister off the microphone: Don't comment.]] I'm commenting on what you're saying to me because, according to the Rules of Procedure, we're supposed to be talking on a microphone. Because you're not talking, I'm interpreting it here. [[Prime Minister off the mic: Don't do that.]] I said you were Mr. čistý and you said you weren't. I don't know. But I don't want to talk about that right now. In any case, I'm interested in another matter - and don't tell me what to comment on and what not to comment on. I'm not your subordinate to the government, I'll comment on what I want. [[Prime Minister off the microphone: Don't comment.]] So I just want to say - don't tell me: Don't comment when I can comment on what I want. We have our voters, you have your voters. [[The Prime Minister off the microphone: I understand, so do you.]] You're whispering to me! [[Prime Minister off the microphone: I respond to you.]] There's a conversation going on here. I'd have to translate it on the microphone, so I don't know now. [[You're translating.]] I mean, one thing. Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you a simple question. Why don't you ask STAN and Vít Rakušan what this means, all these cases? Why don't you ask him, Prime Minister, who are the end owners of the companies that sponsored the Pirates and the STAN campaign? Let him say the names. You said before the election that you wanted to promote transparency. It even says in your government statement that you want to fight companies in tax havens. But the deed has escaped. You don't fight it, you directly support it, because your first Vice Prime Minister Vít Rakušan - was sponsored by companies from Cyprus from tax havens registered in Luxembourg, and you haven't been able to ask him, after six months or six months, whether he'll clear it up or withdraw from the STAN movement. I'd also like to know what you're saying about the Polčák case. You've been silent all along, Prime Minister. Does it seem normal to you that someone has CZK 8 million to enforce the law? And even if it seemed normal to you that he didn't tell us in advance here - the STAN movement, your coalition partner - that he didn't say before the vote that the Vice-President of the STAN movement had a contract for which he would pay $8 million to enforce the law? Does that sound right to you, Prime Minister? [[Prime Minister off the microphone: I can't comment, you just told me.]] No, I said you could comment. [[Prime Minister off the microphone: No.]] I said you could comment, but I'll translate it. [[Glee in the hall.]] You can tell me if it feels like it, we can address ourselves directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u15	Yes, but this kind of debate would not be entirely appropriate to continue to develop here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u16	This means that I am interested in the only answer I would have translated if you had answered whether it seemed normal to you that a person from STAN's top management will not tell us here before the vote that for enforcing the law we voted for here in the House, there will be $8 million. It seems normal to you, doesn't it? [[Prime Minister off the microphone: I'm not gonna pay you as a spokesperson, even if that's what you might want.]] Oh, please, these are my words that I don't want a free speaker. That's what you heard me say on TV, and now you're saying it. [[Prime Minister off the mic: So you have something to translate.]] I know, but you still don't answer the question, do you think it's normal? It seems normal to you, doesn't it? Now the cameras are pointing at us, just pointing your head like this: it doesn't look normal, it does. [[Jolly in the ranks of members of the SPD.]] And I don't have to translate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u17	I don't think we're going to have this debate any further in this way, please. And I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u18	The Prime Minister says he won't let me summon him, or he won't answer. He does not want to answer if he feels normal, Prime Minister, that before the vote on the Zlin municipality compensation law, for which we have all voted, the STAN movement did not say that it was CZK 8 million for the benefit of its supreme representative, Vice-President STAN. You can't answer that, Prime Minister. [[Prime Minister off the microphone: I can, but not with your mouth. And stop it. This is incorrect what you're doing.]] No? So log on to the microphone. Now you're telling me to stop, but why would I stop? You want to silence the opposition. I mean, you want me to be here like a puppet. Just, Prime Minister, go on the microphone and tell me - you don't have to tell me, you didn't give me any answers. And tell the microphone if it seems normal to you that he's your first vice prime minister, Home Secretary, Chairman of the STAN movement. Stop getting mad at me here. And say - it interests the citizens - if it seems normal to you that 8 million crowns are contracted by the Vice-President of the STAN movement, your chief coalition partner, your second largest coalition partner, the largest, because you are the largest ODS. Let's say it on the microphone. Now you could have said it behind me, you could have twisted your head or you couldn't have. No, you're a lavarian. You can't convict that someone here isn't gonna tell us before the vote that they're supposed to have CZK 8 million out of public money? You really can't convict? That's terrible, isn't it? Let's really get on that mic and say it. And don't tell me not to do your homework here. I ask you as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. I'm asking, and you don't want to answer. I'm even taking your space away so you can say, yes, I agree with that or no, I condemn it. Nothing. So what can I say? [[From the right side of the hall: Nothing.]] So this really isn't the right approach. You guys have been whispering everybody here in the last term, and now I just want to ask. The question is really very simple. Before the vote on the law, the Vice-President of the STAN movement did not tell us that their second highest man was to claim CZK 8 million when the law passed. So we're not gonna get answers from Prime Minister Petr Fiala for the ODS, and I think, and I'm not gonna bother you any more that everyone's taken a picture. It's awful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u19	President Výborný is now reporting, and another with priority rights will be Vice-President Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, Dear Government, fellow Members, if I am not mistaken, we are still on the subject of the debate on the draft agenda of the meeting after an hour and two minutes, although some colleagues headed by Mr Okamura, through you, may not have fully understood. In the beginning, all I have to do is turn against this absolutely outrageous insult to the Prime Minister of this country. I don't think it really belongs here. [[Restlessness in the ranks of members of the SPD.]] The words of my colleague Okamura testify only to him and no one else. I'll go back to what I said, that is, the draft agenda of the meeting. Allow me to propose the inclusion of new ten points in the programmes of this House of Deputies meeting. Those points please include in the category of electoral points, i.e. for point 86 of these ten new points. The first is the proposal to withdraw the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. These are five members. The second point is the Application for appeal by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund. It is also a proposal to withdraw the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund, three members. It is also a proposal to withdraw members of the Supervisory Board of the State Investment Support Fund, five members. And the motion to appeal the members of the Supervisory Board of the Wine Fund, seven members. [[15.10 hours]] Furthermore, allow me to include these five new points. [[Noise in the hall.]] From the logic of the matter, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u21	I will ask for peace in the hall, and for the debates that are going on here to be moved to the lobby or to be concluded, and for the President to have peace in making the proposals. There aren't many, so please, let's pay attention to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u22	The proposal to elect the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, five members, the proposal to elect the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, the proposal to elect the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, three members, the proposal to elect the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Investment Support, five members, and the proposal to elect the members of the Supervisory Board of the Vine Fund, seven members in total. Thank you for including these ten points for item 86 of the current draft agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u23	I also thank you for presenting the proposal. It is now registered with the priority right of Vice-President Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to President Okamura's speech. [[He's turning left.]] Yes, thank you, Mr. Okamura listens to me, I'm glad. Now, you've been riding here for what you've done, with a very strong voice, and you've been upset, and I'm asking why you weren't upset, why didn't you stand up for those communities? The explosion occurred in 2014. For years, they have asked for compensation in vain. For years, and no one was involved in this during the reign of Andrej Babiš. Then they approached Mr Polčák, MEP, as an attorney, as an attorney, and then it moved. So pretty please... [[Rush in the hall, voices from the diaper.]] You could have started working in 2014. [[President: Through me.]] First of all. Yes, I'm sorry, by your help, Madam President. Secondly, we said we would bring a new culture to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Laughter and applause from the left.]] Thank you for the applause. I mean the culture of speech. And if you've noticed, our Prime Minister has a culture of speech, he doesn't yell at the MPs as former Prime Minister. That's why I'm just telling you that what you've done here is really unworthy of the way you treat our Prime Minister, who always responds to you in a calm voice. And if you have a question for him, ask him, Mr Okamura, through Madam President, in an interview where I haven't seen you in a long time. So you have the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister. Now we need to approve the laws in relation to the war in Ukraine in connection with the refugee crisis, so please, let us give room and approve the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, too. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] The Prime Minister, Petr Fiala, is now with the priority right, and I will ask again for silence in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this will now be very brief, and I am prepared to speak with priority rights after the programme has been approved and, as required by the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies, to report on the situation in Ukraine and the effects of direct and indirect effects on citizens of the Czech Republic. I will, of course, do this, but I volunteered because I do not want to cause this speech, which is of interest to the citizens of the Czech Republic, by expressing my opinion on what the President of the SPD Tomio Okamura has been doing here. I, President Okamura, through the President, do not deny you the right and will never deny you the right to a critical form of speech in the form in which you see fit. You know that, although I was in charge of the Chamber of Deputies, I was very liberal in what Members could be allowed to do and in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure when it comes to Members' speeches, and I have never interfered and I do not interfere with the speech that you have made here, but you are only introducing new forms as you have already done when you have prevented us from discussing and approving, for example, the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting. You're introducing a new form of political culture that I just don't want to accept and I won't, and I want to name it. Ask me questions, I will answer them as I consider it appropriate and necessary, I will answer and the voters will judge yours and mine whether I answer correctly or not. That's the thing we have to leave to the voters, but it's hard to do what you've done here and what I really can't accept. When you stand up like this and say, "Turn your head to the left, right, up, down, and depending on whether I twist or not, you keep calling me and insulting me, it doesn't seem like an appropriate form of communication to me. For your questions, I'm... [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Through another Member here, President Okamura, through Madam President, we are only discussing the case that I have just presented. This means that I am addressing you under the Rules of Procedure by means of the President's meeting. In no other way do we turn to others through someone, so you have nothing to challenge me to answer your questions with your mouth. That's not a political culture, that's her decline, and I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u27	Mr. Fiala, Chairman of the SPD Club, is now registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u28	Hello, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. So we learned about Mr Okamura's verbal misconduct when he tried to ask the government, the ministers and the Prime Minister why someone from the STAN is billing $8.5 million here. He stood crooked, turned his head, everything was wrong in Mr. Okamura's speech. But of course, we didn't get the answer. So I expected the Prime Minister to come out and say. That's right, it bothers me, it doesn't bother me, Mr. Polčák is a hero, he's got $8.5 million per law, I don't mind, I'm okay with it, or it bothers me. That's the answer I expected. Instead, we learned if someone was standing crooked, twisting their head, twisting what he said, asking if his voice was elevated, his voice was elevated, and so forth, so the answer didn't satisfy me. We, Prime Minister, will interpel you. I think that's the right way to ask you, we'll interpel you several times to answer these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u29	Now I don't have any more applications for the agenda, so just to be safe, I'm still checking in on anyone else. That's why I'm going to call in my colleagues from the lobby to deal with the proposed changes. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. I'll check you all out, log a re-logged application, and I'm asking you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. First of all, we will vote on proposals from the Gremium, because here, in essence, there was an agreement that, in the originally proposed and read proposal from the Gremium, there are three specific requirements for a separate vote, namely the House press 45, paragraph 66, and also points 2 and 3, i.e. the House prints 30 and 31, so we will vote on these separately. And so I will read, repeat, what is the proposal from the Gremium just without these three points. [[15.20 hours]] First, as the following procedure for this week's meeting, tomorrow, Wednesday, 23 March, we should start the negotiations with item number 1, House press 43, second reading, then continue with the draft agenda: at 13:30 tomorrow, there would be a fixed election block of points 80 to 86, the results of which would be announced on Thursday, 24 March at the beginning of our meeting. Thursday - starting at 9 o'clock, there are no written interpelations, and we will begin with the announcement of the results of the elections and we will continue with the following items: paragraph 105, House press 180, which is the Government proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence Ministry within the multinational NATO fighting group in the Slovak Republic, points from the second reading block - paragraph 64, House press 42, paragraph 65, House press 44, and points from the first reading block from point 69 to point 74, these are House prints 135, 142, 149, 155, 156, 157. Secondly, we will discuss the items in the first reading block in the following order: paragraph 22, House printing 173, paragraph 24, House printing 176, paragraph 4, House printing 76, paragraph 5, House printing 151, paragraph 6, House printing 67, paragraph 7, House printing 174, paragraph 14, House printing 139, paragraph 23, House printing 175. So much for the whole exhausting proposal, which has already been approved by the Grémium. I am opening the vote on all these proposals put forward together and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? The number 2 vote includes 166 Members and Members, and all 166 are in favour. The proposal from the Gremium has been approved. We would now deal with the three separate votes that I have announced, that is, the item from the contract block, the second reading, for point 65 of the approved programme, to include paragraph 66, which is the House press 45. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote number 3 includes 168 Members and Members, for 149, against 19. The proposal was accepted, so we included point 66 as point 65. We will then deal with the inclusion of point 2 as point 24 of the already approved draft programme. I am opening the vote on this proposal as well. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 4 is 169 present, for 150, against 19. The motion was accepted. We will now deal with the proposal for the inclusion of point 3 for item 2, which is the House's press 31. I'm asking, who's in favour of the proposed firm assignment? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5 is 169 present, for 149, against 19. The motion was accepted. We have now settled our proposals from the Gremium and I will continue with the proposals that have been tabled by individual Members. President Okamura is proposing a new point as the first item today, called Political entrepreneurship of the STAN movement. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 6, 170 Members and Members were enrolled, for 84, against 67. The motion was denied. The other points are designed by Mr... Please vote on the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u30	Just for the vote. I voted against it, but it came to me, I've got a pro on high. I do not question the vote. It's just for the stew record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u31	Yes, all right, then we will not vote on the objection. But I have an application for a check-out, so I'm asking you again... [[A commotion in the hall. Several votes, he doesn't want to object.]] I know, I was just pointing out that there is a request for everyone to sign off, but the vote will continue with the proposals made by President Benda. Everything's fine, there's no doubt about the vote. Now, President Benda's proposal to us on Wednesday, tomorrow 23rd. 3. As the first point, they included paragraph 77, which is the Parliamentary Press 86. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's in favour of this firm assignment? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 7 is 168 present, for 167, against none. The motion was accepted. The following is the vote on the proposed fixed inclusion of item 78, House press 68, as the second item of tomorrow's meeting. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 8, 170 Members and Members were registered, for 169, against none. The motion was accepted. Now the vote on item number 8 is that if, because it comes after point 23, but if this point was not opened and discussed or opened only until Friday 9am, so that it would be firmly placed for this hour. So it's item number 8, construction law. I will put this proposal to a vote. I said, who's in? Against? In the vote number 9, 170 Members and Members are enrolled, for 85, against 83. The motion was denied. I'm still checking the votes. To the vote? [[The Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš comes to the hall asking what's going on. Sounds like applause and laughter.]] I'll ask for peace. Mrs Krutáková to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u32	I apologize to all my colleagues, but I abstained on the button, but I wanted to vote in favour. I question the vote. [[Room humming.]] I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u33	Madame, the wording should sound different. I'm sorry, everyone, please calm down. One more time, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u34	I voted in favour. Well, yes, I voted yes, but I've got a "staying" on the dope. [[And are you questioning?]] I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u35	Well, yes, thank you. So we have a questioning of the vote. [[15.30 hours]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 10, 171 Members and Members are enrolled, for 164, against 2. This objection has been accepted and we will repeat the previous vote. I will repeat what we are voting on. It is a fixed classification of item number 8, i.e. the construction law, for Friday, 9 o'clock, in the event of its opening and opening of negotiations until then. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Against? In the vote number 11 171 Members and Members are registered, for 87, against 84. The motion was accepted. Another of President Benda's proposals. I will ask everyone present to know what we are voting on. It is a firm inclusion for Thursday for item 105 already included, item 75, which is the House press 178. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 12, 171 present are registered for 170, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We would now vote on paragraph 76 for this point already voted on, paragraph 75, which is the House Press 179. A firm assignment again. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 13 171 is registered, 171 is also in favour, therefore this proposal has been adopted. And the last of President Benda's proposals is a firm inclusion for the vote now, item 76, to include item 63, which is the Parliamentary Press 98/E. I am opening the vote on this solid inclusion of a point and I ask who is in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 14 is 171 present, for 151, against 19. The motion was accepted. The proposal by Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová has now been tabled, and it is the inclusion of a new point, which we will then eventually place firmly, and the proposal for the title of the point is Indemnification of municipalities - case Vrbětice - Stanislav Polčák, MEP and chairman of the Association of Local Authorities. I'm registering a motion to unsubscribe. I beg you to re-enlist with your cards. We are therefore voting now to add a new point once the number of entries has settled, which has now happened. So I'm opening the vote on this new inclusion. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 15, 171 Members and Members are enrolled, for 84, against 46. The proposal was rejected, so we will not vote on the fixed inclusion of the point. Another proposal was made by Mr Novák, once again including a new point, and this is an item entitled Immoral Meeting and Abuse of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament by a member of the Bureau of STAN Stanislav Polčák in the Vrbětice case. First, we vote on the inclusion of the point itself. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this point? Who's against it? In the vote number 16 171 Members and Members are registered, for 84, against 32. The proposal was rejected and therefore it is not possible to vote on the solid inclusion either. I have some factual points here, but I suppose they're just late votes. So we have now dealt with Mr Novák's proposal, and we have a few proposals left by Mr Mr President of the Excellent. This is the classification of electoral points, for item 86. It's a block of ten points, and I want to ask if we'd vote them in one block or separately? But I don't think it's... In one block. One block of votes, would you mind? [[No.]] There is no objection to this procedure. So I'm going to sum up all the points that we would vote on. It is a proposal to withdraw the members of the Supervisory Board of the SFDI - five members, a proposal to appeal the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the SZIF, a proposal to withdraw the members of the SZIF - three members, a proposal to withdraw the members of the Supervisory Board of the Wine Fund - seven members. Subsequently, of course, the proposal to choose the members of the Supervisory Board of SFDI - five members, the proposal to elect the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of SZIF, the proposal to elect the members of the Supervisory Board of SZIF - three members, the proposal to elect the members of the Supervisory Board of SFPI - five members and the proposal to elect the members of the Supervisory Board of the Wine Fund. It is therefore a firm inclusion of these ten points in this block in a row, they are voting points, and for point 86, which means next week. I'm opening the vote on the motion tabled, on this whole package, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 17, 171 Members and Members are registered, for 87, against 8. The motion was accepted. According to my notes, we've dealt with all the proposals for changing the agenda, but just in case, have any of these proposals been left out? I see no objection. Therefore, we can proceed to the vote on the whole proposal for the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing and modified by the amendments that have been voted on. I'm opening the vote on the entire agenda of the meeting and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 18, 171 Members and Members were enrolled, for 145, against 20. The draft agenda has been approved. Thank you, and I'll hand over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, and before we begin the first item, Prime Minister Petr Fiala has asked for the floor with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I respond with my speech to the demands made by the political grémie of the Chamber of Deputies, but in the end they were also communicated publicly at some press conferences, to speak at the beginning of the meeting and to report on matters relating directly or indirectly to the Russian military aggression in Ukraine. I consider such a request to be completely logical, and I am happy to comply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u38	I'm sorry, Prime Minister, to interrupt. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is speaking, so please be quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u39	I consider this request perfectly legitimate, and I am happy to comply with it, and I think it is a good thing that we should also be informed in this extraordinary situation in this way, in order to tell the Chamber of Deputies what the government is doing, how it responds to these difficult challenges of time. In two days it will eventually be exactly a month from the moment Vladimír Putin ordered the Russian army to attack Ukraine and militaryly occupy it. The pursuit of a lightning war has become a lengthy conflict that has already claimed thousands of lives on both sides. That the original idea of lightning strike or lightning operation failed, we can thank both the Ukrajinec' determination to defend themselves and their extremely brave defence and fight, and of course also the help that Ukraine receives from democratic states, including the Czech Republic. Although the Czech Republic did not hesitate and was one of the first to help both humanitarian and military supplies, it did not look very good with the help at first. However, in a number of countries that had previously had a different idea of foreign security policy, about their role, such as their neutrality, there has been a huge change of opinion, public opinion and political direction. Long-term security taboos and paradigms have fallen, and these states have joined, either with the harsh sanctions or directly with the supply of weapons, or with other assistance. The Russian invasion has caused and causes at this time the very opposite of what Vladimír Putin wished for. Instead of sticking a wedge between the allies, the European countries, the countries in the North Atlantic alliance, have managed to bring these countries together. Instead of the end of Ukraine as a sovereign country, Ukraine has embarked on a fight, and part of the Russian-speaking population of the country is fighting for Ukraine. Since the beginning of the conflict, I have said and said that Russia has not only declared war on Ukraine, but to all of us, the consequences of this war can be felt everywhere and felt by all of us, felt by our citizens. I understand the disillusionment of many over rising energy prices, over fuel prices, over food prices and other goods. It is understandable, this disillusionment is logical, and these facts cannot leave either of us indifferent or inactive, but before we start accusing supermarkets, pumpers, energy companies, government, the European Union and others, let us not forget that the main culprit of this situation is only one and is Vladimír Putin. The rest are the consequences of war, the consequences of both direct and indirect, the war that he has decided to unleash in Europe. And that is what we need to remember when we think about these things, when we lament the situation, complain, swear, but we have to keep that in mind even when we look for ways to mitigate the effects on the population. One of the main impacts, or certainly the main impact of war on our country is the influx of refugees. Around 300,000 Ukrajinec have arrived in the Czech Republic. The numbers, if you look at how many people have crossed the line, how many people are on the move, how many people have entered the European Union, are huge. Poland is not four times as big as it is and it hosts more than 2 million Ukrajinec in its territory and other people are on their way. We manage it in the Czech Republic, thanks to the great effort and dedication of state authorities, regions, municipalities, many nonprofit organizations, and especially citizens who have offered their homes, offered their jobs, offered their time. Thanks to all this, we have managed to cope with the huge migration wave so far. It is not easy, of course, nor is it completely without complications, but the system we have created in the Czech Republic can withstand the most stringent comparisons, and so far I have to say that the Czech Republic is one of the countries that are clearly best able to do this. Our common goal - and here I am definitely speaking for the vast majority of the opposition - is - and above all what we hear from citizens, so people perceive it, this is the mood in society - our common goal is to take care of the children and wives of Ukrajinec who fight for their country. Again, I remind you that people come here who don't come here for some economic advantage, but they come here to save their lives. So we want to help them, it is our common goal, but at the same time we want to help them in a way that will have the least negative impact on our citizens. The first wave of people who fled from Ukraine and who came to our country were people who had contacts here who knew where they were going and who had often secured accommodation in advance. Yet, even among them, people who arrived, as they say, blindly, had no contacts, had no relatives, no friends who would provide accommodation for them, and we provide accommodation for such people. In the housing facilities property of the state, regions, municipalities, in vacant municipal apartments, but also in families of people who offered their homes to Ukrajinec. More than 25 000 people have been able to accommodate through the regional assistance centres of Ukraine. The capacity of the accommodation still - and it is regionally already diverse - are some, but gradually, if the tide is even bigger, it will of course stop and there is an emergency accommodation, for example in halls, gyms and so on. However, we must all try to make this form of accommodation - including what we are doing, and this must be the preparation of some humanitarian bases - we must try to minimise this as much as possible, because all other forms are better, socially, but also economically, in the long term more advantageous for Czech society. So we know that people who stay with them from Ukraine do this selflessly because they want to help, they have the option, but we also know and understand that such help is not free. It requires great expense from those who provide this help, and if they are to do so for a longer time - and many of them want to do so for a longer time - it is our duty to contribute to these people. That is why we have decided to prepare - and at this point we are preparing - a contribution to solidarity households. This contribution should compensate for increased costs, but it will be set not to encourage trade in poverty or some related negative phenomena. Again, all of this, even if we put the funds of the state budget into it, is cheaper, as a result, to be safer and more socially viable than a mass hostel. We want and must help these people. We must respond to people helping them spontaneously, and we must create conditions for them on the part of the state. [[15.50 hours]] Ukrajinec coming here, and I mean, a lot of citizens are aware, I'm going to say it again, these are people who, until recently, lived the same lives as we do. They went to work, the kids went to school, they took care of their parents, they had plans, dreams, fantasies, they had homes, and they had savings. The war took it all away from them, day by day. The savings that he owns in a number of cases - and that is also to be said - do not have the possibility to turn into any currency or Czech crown due to the de facto unchangeableness of the hryvna. And these people - I say again, the same people as us who lived the same life a month ago as we do - must have at least a minimum of opportunity from us to get the necessary things for themselves and for their children. And that is why we have approved a CZK 5,000 per month benefit which they can receive for a maximum of six months and to which they are entitled if they apply for it, only until they get a job and the things related to the job. And that's another thing we did. And thanks to you here in the O.R., and thank you for that, we have approved an amendment to legislation that will allow Ukrajinec who register to work legally. Of course, the goal is clear, we try to move as many of those who have come as much into normal life as possible to stop being dependent on social benefits, to have the opportunity to feed their children themselves, to pay for their life needs. The procedure that we are following here is certainly correct, it is socially viable again, and moreover, even if it is not the primary objective, but it also has an indirect impact, it will help the Czech industry and services, which in many cases are very difficult to find employees, and you know that the situation here in the long term is not good from this point of view. But like I said, that's a side effect. Even if this effect were not, we would do all the steps we are doing, and we should do them and try to make as many people who have come to us as possible if they have conditions, skills, education, family situation to get involved in work as quickly as possible. I'm sure that's the way to go. I will recall a few more steps that we have taken or are doing in this context. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has modified the conditions for the functioning of children's groups, i.e. the possibility of adopting a child with temporary protection to a child group without demonstrating the parent's involvement in the labour market, but maintaining the right to a contribution from the state budget, and the possibility of a foreigner with temporary protection to carry out an activity carried out by raising and caring for a child in a children's group, on condition that he proves the necessary practice and education, exceptionally for six months only on the basis of a declaration of honour, because the authorities would actually be impossible to obtain a document from their country at the moment. And by doing that, we're actually gonna take care of those kids, some kind of elementary group, which is gonna help what I said a while ago, and that's so that your parents, those moms, because they're mostly moms, have a chance to go to work. Let me just remind you that from the first wave that came to us, the people who fled from the war in Ukraine, about 80 percent of the adults were women and about half were children. Indeed, mothers and children are fleeing while their men remain in Ukraine and fight for their country. When I mention children's groups, I also touch the area of education. The primary objective is the integration of Ukrainian children into mainstream schools. Of course, this is also not entirely simple. As you know, we are, of course, a target country, given the quality of life in the Czech Republic, given that there is already a strong Ukrainian minority, but we are also the target country, of course, because of language proximity. Nevertheless, children need to be able to go to school, to adapt to Czech or to help teach Czech. This is most often happening in children's groups, it happens in special classes or it can also happen by integrating, directly integrating individuals - it can't be some mass into Czech classes here. The so-called lex Ukraine has been approved for schools that contain some options or conditions for better handling the situation - the release of the number of pupils in classes or, for example, which I think may also be very important, the possibility of employing a Ukrainian-speaking worker who does not have pedagogical education, and other things that give an instrument to all those involved, including schools, to cope with the situation. In this context, I also note that we did not withdraw from the compulsory vaccination requirement for children in kindergartens - where the obligation is also for Czech children. I have touched on this note here on the health issue, which, of course, is also a big issue and is extremely important. All the asylum seekers - you know, just to remind you - are registered in public health insurance. All insurance companies register, and therefore they are entitled to the same medical care as Czech citizens. But at the same time, of course, it also reduces all possible health risks, which would be associated with a strong wave of migration under other circumstances. We're taking other steps. From the decision of the Minister of Health, so-called UA POINTs will be established in all directly managed faculty hospitals. It is named in English, an international abbreviation of Ukraine, but it is actually, if I convert it into our language, it is actually a low-level ambulance whose purpose is to ensure a smooth process of providing health services to people from Ukraine who will not be able to absorb the network of primary health care providers. We are following by this that we want to maintain the availability of health care for Czech citizens to the full extent, we do not want to jeopardize it in any way, but at the same time we want to create capacity for this care for people who are fleeing Ukraine. At the same time, the Czech Republic is also taking other steps, asking the European Union for supplies of tuberculosis vaccines and other diseases, and preparing a list of specific medicines that need to be increased in cooperation with the State Institute for Drug Control. The Ministry of Health therefore deals with ensuring sufficient supply of medicines for the Czech market, is ready to issue a ban on the export of critical medicines or buy medicines abroad. So we are also taking steps on this side that are necessary, which are also preventive, so that the system does not get into any problem in any way - and will not be in any way threatened by the quality of health care and its scope, to which Czech citizens are used, and at the same time to manage the arrival of hundreds of thousands of people from Ukraine. Let me also stress at this point one thing that must be said here, because sometimes I hear such complaining, and sometimes it also sounds from opposition benches: the government only thinks of Ukrainians, forgets Czech citizens, this is not how it should be. Well, I just want to say it's very simple that it's not true. It's not true, it's a lie. And I, in all understanding, because the government is to be criticized by the opposition, the opposition is to criticize the government, and I am prepared for this criticism, so I think that we should not abuse this situation, to abuse this tense situation. We do not forget Czech citizens, we have never forgotten them, and we will not forget them even in a situation where we have to deal with a dignified and humane and right way with such a strong refugee wave that is unprecedented in Europe after World War II. [[16.00 hours]] The fact that we do not forget Czech citizens, I want to mention here a few specific examples. One of the problems that Putinův war has brought is a sharp rise in prices, a rapid rise in fuel prices. As we know, and as you know, what you are watching or dealing with economic things, the market responds not only to actual actions, to real stimuli, but also to speculation and fears, and the oil market is acting in no way. Concerns about the lack of this raw material caused an enormous increase in fuel prices at petrol stations. And even if the spike was only short-lived, maybe we'll see even more fluctuations, we don't know that, so the government's already reacting to the spike we've seen in the last few weeks. We've taken some precautions. We have approved for entrepreneurs the abolition of road taxes for vehicles up to 12 tonnes, and the government has also approved the abolition of the obligation to mix biofuels, a decision which must still be passed through Parliament. And I believe it will pass through the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Of course, that step will have two effects. One is the decline in fuel prices, even in CZK units, it is. But we have to look here for solutions in CZK units, because let us remove the causes that are on the Czech side. We can hardly eliminate the causes that are on the international market. And the second effect will be that, at the same time, agricultural land or more agricultural land is released for food cultivation, because, of course, farmers also follow economic incentives. And if we stop supporting one raw material, the interest will shift to more profitable crops, such as grain, which will probably be less because of lower production in Ukraine, which is something we all know about and which is now widely discussed in the international environment. We've wanted this step to eliminate the incorporation of biofuels for a long time. The last government insisted, but the incorporation is no longer ecological... nor economical or ecological, and just as it turns out, diesel is making it more expensive for drivers. This, of course, was not the only two steps that we have responded to the increase in fuel prices, but we have also taken a step that has a high preventive efficiency and psychological effect, and that is that the Ministry of Finance has increased control of petrol stations in order to eliminate significant margin increases and possibly abuse oil price increases. Other targeted measures have also been taken to help citizens fight or cope with both the rising fuel prices, the rising fuel prices, the rising energy prices, and what is affecting them because of inflation. I'm gonna remind you of some of the steps we've taken in the last few weeks. The Act on State Social Support has been amended, which means increasing the contribution to housing so that more people can reach it and ask for it by those who get to the edge or fall into energy poverty. As figures also show in comparison with last year, it is evident that this measure works and that more and more people are asking for this form of state social support. The law on aid in material distress has been amended, namely the rules on the payment of extraordinary immediate assistance, which has been reduced to expand - again - the number of people who can benefit from this aid from the state. We tried to help entrepreneurs in some way quickly, so the Guarantee programme for small and medium-sized enterprises was extended by a new guarantee called Forced Change of Energy Supplier, which is intended to help with these problems, which fall and fell very hard on mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. We are preparing a proposal for an amendment to the Energy Act, on which the Ministry of Industry and Trade is now working so that the trader automatically loses all energy trading licenses in case of loss of ability to meet his obligations, which, in turn, is consumer protection. And it is a step towards not repeating what happened in the case of Bohemia Energy in the autumn of last year in the crash of such an important energy supplier. In the case of gas, of course, the situation is very difficult and we are aware that we need to ensure security of supply, that, in the medium term, we need to look for alternative suppliers outside Russia, and we also need to ensure that mandatory gas reserves are maintained in storage tanks, because, as you know, unlike oil, the Czech state does not have cards in hand with gas storage tanks, we do not have it in our hands. But what we have and what we can do is to ensure that mandatory reserves are respected, which at this point guarantees us, as has been said repeatedly, gas reserves for more than 30 days. But we don't want to settle for it, which is why the government is changing the decree setting the minimum time that gas reservoirs have to cover in the event of a failure of suppliers so that the deadline is even greater. Of course, I don't have room here, or I don't want to talk about this question for too long. We will certainly get to this in the next negotiations of the Chamber of Deputies, but, of course, here the main task is common European. The Czech Republic itself is unable - it cannot, it would be unreasonable and, above all, impossible - to secure alternative sources of gas and thus reduce dependence on Russian gas. We have to do this together. The European Union is ready for this, we are looking for alternative suppliers. At the last meeting, the informal summit of the European Council also approved relatively ambitious objectives to replace and reduce dependence on Russian energy sources, to build a new infrastructure for the use of liquefied gas and other and other things that are needed to cope with the situation so that something like this that we are experiencing now does not happen again. In addition to what I mentioned, the Ministry of the Environment is preparing an adjustment to the New Green Savings Programme. The aim of these modifications is to make it easier to draw subsidies on energy savings or to produce them on the roofs of houses through photovoltaics. That's the thing that we have in the program, in the government's programming statement, but we need to speed it up here, and especially to create the conditions for people to really get the photovoltaic if they want to get it. And so far, it has to be said that there are some long-term problems, and that is the need for self-financing of projects, which is an obstacle for many people, for which they do not actually have the opportunity to make these savings possible. So it is also necessary to work on this, and we are working to remove unnecessary obstacles and create conditions for us to make more use of this very simple renewable energy source. I have chosen some steps that show that the government is working, not only on helping Ukrajinec fleeing the war, but also on measures that reduce the impact of war and international situations and the energy market, it is working on measures that reduce the impact of all these factors on our citizens. [[16.10 hours]] Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, who are watching us, let me conclude by asking you once again to understand the current situation and to understand the steps our government is taking. The situation we're facing is completely unprecedented. No one expected - or few expected - a war so close to us, a war that is waged in such a brutal way, no one anticipated such a strong refugee wave that has no parallel in Europe after World War II, no one expected all the consequences that we now have to deal with today and daily. I am proud of Czech citizens who help to cope with the situation, and I am proud of how the Czech Republic helps at all levels. It helps Ukrajina, helps Ukrajinec in their fight, helps them cope with the situation. I'm proud of it. Ukrajinec are grateful for this, they know it and appreciate what the Czech Republic is doing at all levels. It's not just the government, not by a long shot. That is a lot of state institutions, self-government, but above all they are nonprofit organizations and they are the citizens themselves who do excellent work and help in this regard. There is a huge share of the work of specific people - officials, police officers, paramedics, firefighters, soldiers, volunteers, simply all citizens who are not indifferent to the fate of Ukraine. This wave of solidarity is not obvious. It's unbelievable, and it's important to thank all these people for it. But that has something to do with the war in Ukraine, one more thing that is not so pleasant. I promised the citizens that I wouldn't lie to them, that I would always tell them the real state of things, that I wouldn't paint things pink, and I would stick to them this time. The war in Ukraine will touch all of us. The refugee crisis will affect all of us. The consequences of Putinův war will affect all of us. That's the way it is, and it can't be any other way. Each of us will have to sacrifice part of our comfort for a while. I do, and our government is doing everything it can to keep it temporary, to keep it as short as possible, but we must not succumb to Russian propaganda. We must not argue, we must not abuse the current situation to a deep internal political divide. We wouldn't help anything, and the only one who would be happy about it is the current ruler of the Kremlin. Let's not let that happen. The situation isn't and won't be easy, but we can handle it together. And I ask you to do it together, and I firmly believe in it. We can do this together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u40	Thank you, Prime Minister. The President of the ANO Club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, has now signed up with priority rights. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u41	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. First of all, let me thank the Prime Minister. Thank you for his performance. So far, I appreciate the fact that whenever I applied to political grémia, it was granted to me, the Prime Minister spoke up and informed us as part of some information that he seems to have at the moment. I understand, I understand all the more that I was a member of the former government, who was fighting covid again, and I know how difficult the situation was, how it was changing every day, how inconspicuous it was, how hard it was to set some specific rules. Yet we have tried to do so, and I believe that this government is also trying to do so. Since the beginning of the ANO movement, it has supported and supported the Government's actions. I don't think anyone in this country is doubting that. There is no doubt about this in this hall as regards the resolution of the effects on Ukraine as a result of the war caused by Russia's aggression and, of course, the subsequent refugee crisis. The YES movement repeatedly, and I would say, in particular, those who have a huge experience of the crisis functioning of the government in the past period, offers a helping hand and offers the experience that we have with a wide range of programs, with a wide range of solutions. Thank you for the information. I'm sure you understand that they're not exhausting for me, which you can't think of as a cheap criticism right now, but I would like to respond to what I've been missing because we're getting that information from people, from citizens. I have hundreds of scared citizens' messages every day. I think it's our job to calm down, no matter where we sit, in which benches, at the moment. I'm getting a whole series of questions, I'm in contact with the nonprofit sector, I'm in contact with others, with ammunition. That means, I know there are a lot of questions we haven't heard the answers to at the moment. I will try at least a part of them - it will not be exhausting, either, because it changes every day - to establish here and remind you that we have information from the public space - the first vice prime minister, the Home Secretary, spoke about it - that the government is likely to ask for an extension of the emergency situation, which I have already responded to. We'll see when the request arrives in the Chamber of Deputies that we will not be politicians. We're not doing this on purpose, and we're not gonna criticize the government for prolonging the emergency. The emergency situation is only a legal framework for resolving the crisis, and we are certainly in it, just as we were in our government, but we will want to, and I am saying this absolutely fundamentally at the moment, we will want to hear the complete crisis plan and government strategy for resolving the crisis, not only for a short time but also for a long time, so that we can actually make a competent and responsible decision. I say openly: we will be open to supporting this extension if we get this information. Let me touch on some of the areas that the Prime Minister has referred to and some of which he has not talked about. This may be an incentive for what we want to hear when we talk about an emergency situation, and we will certainly constantly remind ourselves that these things need to be dealt with. Again, we do not want to dig ditches among refugees, among people who have escaped from bombed cities, who have often saved their bare lives - women, children, old citizens - and among our citizens, and we do not support any of these tendencies. And believe me, I get a great deal of news from citizens in this regard. We don't support and we don't want to dig up these ditches and create some kind of hate here. But on the other hand, when you look at sociological surveys, such as Daniel Prokop, I read various such expert studies, and we experienced it ourselves in the government, so after the initial euphoria that was associated with, for example, the first wave of covid, when people were incredibly helping us, sewing drapes, and so forth, there comes this phase, as experts say, sobering up, and, on the contrary, people start getting into a much worse situation. Today it belongs to thank you indeed, it has been rightly said here by the Prime Minister, to thank everyone, but let us not expect it to have such a lasting effect. I really know what I'm talking about. [[16.20 hours]] The Prime Minister spoke of several areas, I will follow up. Employment or trying to accept or adapt those people to our work process - of course, before they can be employed and get all the permits, they have to live here first. It is a good thing that the government is talking about a housing contribution, but I don't think that's the solution. The first thing I didn't understand - and again: we offered, look at COVID - Accommodation, we didn't make it up in those ministerial offices, we communicated with unions, with chambers, Stárek, Mr.Sivek and others, I could name them. Klára Dostálová is not here now - we came to the conclusion that we gave a certain type of hostel - such cheap ones - for example a hundred crown and then we gave up up to 330 crowns I suspect for a day, but it was when the equipment was closed, it didn't have to drown so much, it didn't have to provide service. So the same amount of accommodation doesn't make any sense to me, and it's demotivating. The government will lose a number of capacities that it could use and which it will miss. With regard to the social contribution to help households marry Ukrajinec: I perceive it, and I agree here that it is not some kind of motivation to earn - and people often write it to me: We would take Ukrajinec, but we fear that we will not tighten our energy, we need the contribution to be higher. But again, feel that even with the contribution that we will definitely support to make it higher, it is also not a permanent solution. How long are these people gonna live there? A month - two - three - four - five - six? Can you imagine? Put yourself in this. The submarine starts, problems start, people want to see that there's some kind of view, that they're going to live somewhere stable, that this is some kind of emergency solution. And then honor those people who are in it - and I have them among my colleagues, and I greatly appreciate them for that. Employment issues: do we have established the true professional structure of refugees? Their willingness, the possibility - now I don't think they want to work, but maybe they can't, because they're, like, old-age pensioners or are they disadvantaged in some way? Do we have how we can speed up the process of their education and their recognition of the education? I saw the shows - and the minister certainly also: dentists, qualified doctors come here, and they can't do it. And the government says, "Well, let's go work in children's groups somewhere." It's such a shame. Do you know how long the dentist's been waiting? People tell me how long they've been waiting for the dentist, how long they've been waiting for a special examination, and here they come - and today they're here - about 300,000 people and among them are qualified experts. I remember when we were dealing with, for example, Ukrainian doctors back then, we found out when we were in the government that what our last year's medic was doing in the state's final exams, they had to do in one day. It's straightened out. So it's a shame to let them do it in children's groups when they're dentists. I understand that this is problematic, that there are certain conditions, but it needs to be speeded up, really checked and worked on. That could be a great deal of good for us right now. Will the cursarbeit be accepted, I ask? Is he notified yet? Because there are countries that approach him. And the Prime Minister was talking about supporting further education. Area of social benefits: we supported Lex Ukraine, the YES movement, you must have noticed this, and we will support other things that you will come up with. We understand we can't leave these people here without help. But did you see - I'm using public funds again - the situation at the employment offices, what are the queues there? As those people, those officials - and I am now very politely passing away from the fact that their real wage will fall by 8 percent, as he said on Sunday in Questions Václav Moravec, Governor Rusnok, because of course their increase is zero and the real wage will fall by 8 percent, so we can just be happy. So did the police, the firemen, and all those people the Prime Minister thanked a moment ago. So we can thank the Lord - and I'm from the public sector and I know it's like they're hearts, and they're just gonna do it, no matter what the situation is, thank bůh for them - but the solution would be. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has admitted here, 14 days ago, that there will be some rewards, which means that we are no longer short of the 9 billion, I am not saying the whole, at least the part about which wages have been cut in the budget. He said he'd need to increase the number of officials there. I believe the Home Secretary spoke the same way that he would need it. I understand all this, and I say we act right. We're not going to kick the government here at all costs because she's in this crisis. We want to be different. Health: I'm not an expert, I'm sorry, but people write me horrifiedly as it will be. The Prime Minister said the children must be inoculated. My kids, if they don't have compulsory vaccinations - I'm looking at our doctors to confirm - they don't get to kindergarten. Isn't that right? They shall not be admitted to kindergarten unless they undergo the compulsory vaccination process. I don't know what the level of vaccination is - and now I'm not talking about covid, I mean the compulsory vaccination of children - what is the level in Ukraine. Publicly speaking, when I studied it, it is not at the level that we have been able to eradicate various diseases in decades. And when the inoculations are introduced, I understand - and now I'm sorry, Minister, and the other doctors, I'm not an expert - I can't do that in six months, I'm just judging as a mother, a grandmother, what's been inoculated since birth for how many years, so you don't do it in a month, two, three. So how are we going to deal with all this? Of course, the integration of the children, if they go to school. I heard the show, the Czech TV continuum, Saturday or Sunday I listened to it, whatever, I heard the school directors say. We're ready to accept the children, but not at the expense of these children, we can have two, three, four, five, ten... So they're gonna be special classes? Since when? Will there be Ukrainian teachers who are also, of course, among refugees? Those are questions we're gonna want answers to. I understand it's not easy, and believe me, I can afford to talk like that because I've been through these crises. But let's just work together. We are ready to cooperate, we are ready to lend a hand, we have a large number of experts in our ranks. The Prime Minister was talking about an increase in fuel. We all see it. I'm glad - I read on the Internet today that the Ministry of Finance is carrying out screenings, margin reports. So far, I understand that none of this has come out of it, that the price is actually rising on the Rotterdam Stock Exchange and that there are no inadequate ones - obviously, I haven't seen the numbers, the data, I'm just reading from the headlines on the networks, I'm assuming they're drawing from the Ministry of Finance's information - so the problem is really on the stock exchange. And I guess we kind of figured that, now we just confirmed it. Well, the precautions... I know you don't have it easy, we didn't have it either. But the measures - the abolition of road taxes for cars up to 12 tons. He's texting me ČESMAD and others, those who were doing the blockage here, writing me reasons why they're doing it, that no one's consulted why they're up to 12 tons. The problem is that for a number of government proposals - and that's probably what bothers me most, I'm sorry - it's not just that the proposal was discussed, put in eKLEP so we could study it, and approved it in the government. It's just the government comes out - and don't think of it as cheap criticism - and it says, "We made a deal... But there was no vote, there was no road tax, I didn't see the proposal, I don't know if there was a RIA, I don't know if there was any debate, I didn't read the explanatory report, why it was up to 12 tons. But I'm not saying we'll support it. We'll support it, I'm just telling you what's bothering me. [[16.30 hours]] Biocomponent: please say what you want, don't say cheaply: Now you're fighting for Andrej Babiš and his business. Not at all. I studied it. I asked our experts, there's Richard Brabec, there's Berenika Peštová behind him, because it's a Spanish village for me, and I had it explained. And I'm so curious when you send that legislative proposal over. Why? You too, the chairman of the Economic Committee says so too. I don't blame him. Why just oil, why not petrol? Why do I only suspect paragraph 19, not 20, which are mutually exclusive? Now I'm going to leave it completely to the point that it's European implementation, I'm going to put it aside now, I know it's a bit of a wild time - that if they stop mixing it with that one paragraph, they're going to have to do it with the other paragraph. If they don't do it, they'll have to replace it with oil. We take that oil from Russia, 60 percent, et cetera. And, of course, in the result of the crown of sixty, the crown of fifty maybe, if, two crowns, let me not eat. That means, but we say, "We'll talk about it, but it doesn't solve anything." And I just hope that the only motive - and I want to believe that I didn't - wasn't that we were obsessed with some Andrej Babiš here. I believe that's not true, and we're going to talk about it very technically and professionally. Agriculture: our agricultural expert, our shadow Minister of Agriculture, Mr Tureček, last week - it kind of went down, we'll remind you - there was talk about Ukraine - I think the Prime Minister - Ukraine was also talking about it. Of course, that's in ruins now, we all understand that. But let the government act immediately! We are self-sufficient - I am looking at you, Ambassador, if I say this well - we are self-sufficient in grain at 130 percent, so we are exporting it. Then take action immediately and stop exporting it! Buy it on state material reserves! We're willing to support you in this because we want to look forward to it: see how fuel, energy is entering our food prices. Those tables plus 20, plus 30 percent, that's gonna be awesome. Sorry about the expression. And you know it. So let's do this together! Let's not say, let's not argue if you care about our people. I say no, I'm sorry. We have to take care of everyone. The government is here from that, and we, this part of the opposition, the ANO movement, the 72 Members I lead, are offering help. Let's take care of the refugees, we support you, we've supported all the laws so far and your measures, but take care of our people! What are we waiting for? I mean, it comes into everything, it grows food, and there's really gonna be a huge problem. And let's take care of it, not when it does, let's take care of it preventively. I put it on social media, we presented it last week, of course, for the exuberant cheer of some opposition colleagues, i.e. government colleagues, excuse me, I think from the government bench - I don't blame anyone, I'm not going to name anybody, I don't care - the table that we've got. Before I put it out, I asked my colleagues to find sources in both Czech and English that it was actually discussed. Twenty-four EU countries are doing something. Someone reduced VAT, taxes, excise taxes - you say wrong, I don't - somebody reduced to fuel, somebody stepped in, somebody gave subsidies. I noticed today that one of the government parties, the Pirate Party, presented it. She came up with a suggestion that she wanted to give some support, some one-time amount - but it's the first swallow from the government bench - to energy. Does that mean they're all that stupid? I'm not saying which way is better or worse. I mean, for fuel, over 50 percent of them do taxes! And thanks to the taxes we collect, the government collects, but of course we collect, on the income side of tens of billions extra! So we just say, a part just give them back some form. Don't wait for this problem to come to an end. And this isn't just about the group of socially weak people anymore. This is where the big group, middle class, people who go to work will be affected. We have also opened the issue, I will touch it very marginally, the extension of coal mining. It is the subject of our Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region, Members, we very much support this. Let's talk about this again! We're in a situation where we have to get rid of our dependence on Russian oil, gas. Let's open it. The theme of our shadow minister of the environment - perhaps an incentive for the Minister - the extension of the boilers. And among other things, when we said it at the press conference, now the solid fuel boilers are due to end in September 2022, Madam Secretary nods, thank you, so we say: Let's prolong it! And when we said it at the press conference, suddenly a bag fell apart and people from the countryside write to me, "Oh, my God, extend it, we're not gonna change anything anyway, we don't have it, and so on. So these are all clear proposals that we are willing to support, ready to support, but ready to work with you. The last thing the Prime Minister didn't answer - but it's not remorse again - maybe the suggestion I gave through President Benda didn't get to him - and that is a topic that is also very resonating: the issue of Sberbank. I understand that deposits that are up to 2.5 million are paid by Komerční banka, that is clear. The liquidation will take place. I suppose those who had more money there, at least I'm using public resources, so they'll get to it eventually after the liquidation, it'll take some time, but they'll get to it. But unfortunate people write to us very often that they had bills of notary barracks, which means they put the money into this safe house, it was kept in the Sberbanks, and now they don't really know what to do. It is a topic that Mr Patrik Nacher is in charge of in our country. He's either going to demand it as an extraordinary point or he's going to interpel a relevant minister or a relevant member of the government, yes, points to the Minister of Finance. I believe the Ministry of Finance is involved in this to some extent. It's a big, big problem, because these people don't actually have the real estate or the money, and they need to open it up and figure it out. Of course, the problem is big. So much for the YES movement. We say these are the real problems, this is what we get from people, this is what we get from the nonprofit sector, this is what we have from public space, and we call on you: please take your attention to it, discuss with us. We're ready to help you and support you, work those things off. And keep in mind that it's not about us and you right now, but it's about the people who live in our country, regardless of whether they came from Ukraine or were born here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Before I give the floor to Vice-President Havlíček, I will make an apology. Vice-President Bartošek apologizes today from 14:00 to 16:00. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to clarify some economic data in connection with the war in Ukraine and with the impact on our environment. I, too, would like to commend Prime Minister Fiala for speaking, and I would also like to point out that in the vast majority of the government's activities towards the conflict in Ukraine, we are correct to support them, both in terms of helping Ukraine and in terms of sanctions against Russia and in terms of resolving the refugee crisis. Our officers are involved, and the government has our permanent support in this. Not because we don't see that maybe there are some things that we wouldn't agree with completely, but we don't think that we're right at the moment to criticize. But this does not mean that we will resign from the economic problems that are coming upon us and from the problems that the government fatally underestimates. And here I must disagree quite fundamentally with the many measures presented by the Prime Minister. The Czech Republic, or 20 percent of our households, is clearly headed for poverty. This figure was given a week ago by former Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek, and I am convinced that no one can suspect him of wanting to support the opposition at the moment. He documented, in substance, that a fifth of our households will have fatal problems. Among other things, that's what we've been saying since the end of the year. [[16.40 hours]] When we look at this from the point of view of inflation, which is quite a significant factor, we are now in third place with regard to the highest inflation in the European Union, although we were somewhere on average before Christmas. The government underestimated cost inflation, believed its own marketing claim of Babiš's poverty, and believed that inflation was mainly caused by demand. Yes, at some point, let us admit that this might still have been the case, but it was clear that since energy prices began to rise, this would be cost inflation, which is reflected in the input of the product, and logically also in output at their prices. As a result, we are the third worst in Europe. And when we look at even more detail, and that is what I am going to do, the European Commission concludes that this inflation is 50 percent of the price of energy, that is, by increasing energy prices. And that's where we fail. Measures of a social nature, despite exceptional immediate assistance or through housing contributions, do not work far from what they should. And even if it did work, it wasn't so bureaucratic and it was all the more interested, at this point only 5% of households will be hit positively. Those are the numbers that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs gives. That's the plus minus 200,000 households. If what Mr Miroslav Kalousek said is true that there will be 20 percent of households on the poverty line, then we are talking about 800 to 900,000 households rushing into a big problem with contributions, unfortunately I have to say, this government. Of course, there are measures in hand that could help, but unfortunately, they have not been put into action. Neither of the area measures proposed was finally implemented. The last hint that the government could finally recover and approach these solutions was presented by the pirát. I don't think their proposal is bad at all. It is the so-called bonus or contribution that they want to propose in the order of 400 to 800 crowns per household. I'm just saying, it's mathematically nothing more than what we proposed in the framework of the forgiveness of payments for renewable resources. Why do it complicated over the bonus when we can do it by forgiving payments for renewables, and we can even go against it, that is, those renewables may not just go through forgiveness, but by contributing. Driveable matter goes hand in hand with it. Yes, I understand that prices have gone up in recent weeks, that it may not have been possible to prepare for this, but the measures that have been there, the three, we all see that they are ineffective. The bio-compounds have already fallen. I will just mention that as far as road tax is concerned, it is a measure that no one has requested, a measure that will cost the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure or the Ministry of Transport CZK 5 billion. 5 billion crowns will cost us the road tax. [[The Minister of Finance is responding off the microphone.]] About 4.5 billion. Those aren't bad calculations, those are the calculations that are logically based on last year, but I'd be glad, Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to do that. I say it will be CZK 5 billion to go to the Ministry of Transport. But what's important is, if it's 10 percent more or less, it's not the most important thing, it's the fact that no one asked for it. This will not lower the price of petrol or petrol by a crown. Why didn't we do that, maybe even a little bit higher, and we didn't put the excise tax on it, which would immediately help all the households that would help the companies, at a level that we would put 8 billion crowns, 60 crowns into it? I think that's a quick solution that will help immediately. This way it will only fall to a certain group of entrepreneurs, notabene just to a certain tonnage. It's gonna cost us big money. Thanks to this, the Ministry of Transport will not be able to issue resources and investments or repair for maintenance. That's what might have been discussed. Because I understand it's going to cost the money, but if we're already paying off the money, let it have some effect, and not that we're going to spend the money, and in the finals, even those who are going to draw it, or those who might get the benefit out of it, they're saying that it's more or less useless to them. So let us not underestimate the problems of economic nature. On the other hand, I must say that some things the government does not do wrong. It's a good thing she decided on the core, and it's a good thing she finally started the tender. It's a good thing it doesn't rule out the extension of coal mining, but I'm missing any visions and concepts of how the coal is going to go down. The coal commission has not sat down once, we are not dealing with the issue of minerals that companies are starting to deal with, and logically it is linked to the Ukrainian crisis. We do not deal with any transfer of production from Ukraine to the Czech Republic within automotive parts and so on. And we're not really dealing with gas and our 90 percent dependence on Russia, or whether we're going to use the magazines, whether we're investing money in them, and so on. We deal with this superficially, and we lie to people that we will help them in the energy crisis. Unfortunately, we're not helping them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u44	Thank you and now Minister Vlastimil Válek has applied with priority right. I'll read an apology before he gets to the speaker's desk. For family reasons, for today's day, Mr Petr Letocha apologizes. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, above all, to thank the President of the club YES for coming with my heart on the palm and offering selfless cooperation, and I would be crazy not to use it. And I used her. I have already used it, and of course logically as we did not know when we were in opposition, what the government was actually doing, and we only vaguely suspected it from the media or from what was going on, so of course from the logic of the matter, because the period is hectic, as it was at the time when the covid peaked, the current opposition cannot know all those steps, so I used, for example, some ministers from the government of Andrej Babiš, who were undoubtedly top experts, and I consult with them. Minister Blatný, who was chosen by the Prime Minister as a crisis manager, became a consultant at the Ministry of Health and I use his experience precisely because of this crisis situation. After all, one of the longest-functioning ministers in Prime Minister Babiš's government, the Minister of Education, continues to work and we consult him on these matters. I would like to assure the three uncertainties that have arisen here, and I would like to dispel the doubts. That means the situation won't be easy. It will not be easy, I think we are all aware of that, and I thank you very much for the fact that the coalition and the opposition are aware of this, because we are in some kind of prelude to a war conflict. Just a war where such great nations fight together, when one aggressor, one fool invades a country, a European country where there are 40 million inhabitants, and we are close to the borders of that country, for us there are certain problems that we need to solve. They are linked to a rapid wave of refugees who are close to us, they are Slovan, they are European citizens and they are those who are basically our genetic brothers, I would even say. And we're trying to help them out here. As far as health care is concerned, I'd like to explain what's coming. Here, of course, we are working on a clear protocol of the network that we are now working with practical doctors, and after all, I have consulted some opponents on how to register, how to find my doctor, how to seek emergency help. The care is completely paid for. We are debating with the European Union and here, perhaps I can say this at this point, I asked Professor Štěrba whether he would take up the role of coordinator within Europe when placing children with, say, rare diseases, complex diseases so that we could place them all over Europe, and in doing so we did not restrict the availability of care in these very cases - now I am attacked by lymphomas, solid tumors in children - so that we do not restrict care in the Czech Republic and its availability. And I think we did very well. The second thing is the creation of UA POINTs, which are some kind of backup workplace. In the meantime, we are discussing with the chieftains there, and I think, by your means, Mr President, Mr Vondrák would confirm that the debate is under way and we are trying to arrive at a model that would be optimal for both directly managed hospitals and regional hospitals as some kind of back-up workplaces. [[16.50 hours]] As for paramedics, here I would like to quote directly from the e-mail I received at 12:12, because, of course, there is still another discussion at the Ministry. So the first material that we will discuss, approve at the Ministry of Health on Friday and then give it to the government for discussion is how to obtain permission for the professional practice of a doctor for a maximum period of three months, the so-called short-term internship. That is precisely the case with the medics from Ukraine. The material was processed by the Deputy Minister, along with the professional companies, and we were based on rules that allow the visa to be carried out for a period of one year. In this way, I have four materials prepared for selective dentists, practitioners, paramedics and non-medical professionals in different categories. It is not so easy to recognise qualifications from Ukraine, and not only from Ukraine, because in these countries - I would say post-Soviet countries - there is a very special way of education. They don't have standard certificates, in the Soviet Union or in contemporary Russia practically don't exist, there's a sort of jigsaw test, where you can have, say, a six-month ultrasound test, liver transplant, and I don't know, eye surgery. It's kind of a combination, it's not that classic European or American or Japanese system, it's just another globally recognized system, which is why it's very hard to translate their specialization into ours. In addition, there are two types - and this needs to be emphasized - of two types of universities where de facto doctors are educated, and the one that meets the conditions that are common throughout the world, the other is more like a five-year master's degree, and we cannot completely mix this with our system. Then there is a third problem, which I think we have solved, and here I would like to inform myself that I discussed this very intensively last week on Monday, Tuesday in Brussels, where, after all, there were Members from all political parties, and I thank you very much for attending this very important meeting and meeting, and where we discussed how to allow refugees after that year not to experience the best possible break in their professional qualifications, and I do not hide how to use them to strengthen the Czech health system, let us say for Czech citizens, but also, of course, in the care of refugees. And I think we've come to some consensus and agreement that we're now melting into some kind of methodological guidelines. I firmly believe that it will not be necessary to adopt legislation, but that we will come up with a solution that will allow, as I said, for a period of three months and then for a period of that year in some way to recognise the qualification in a way that allows them to work here under precisely defined conditions. In the meantime, we would like to allow them to pass the language exams, they must be in Czech, of course, but we are preparing courses for them, and then those who would be interested in doing the standard nostrification, which then allows them to work throughout Europe, including England, including other countries in the standard way, so we also want to allow them to do that, because we are still counting on one thing that may not have sounded strong here, but I strongly perceive it. I see Ukraine as a country that should become a part of the European Union in some future, and that is why I would like us to set the system so that it can think about the future. This may be what Mrs President, Mrs Schillerová was thinking, perhaps some long-term strategy, which must also think of what we all wish Ukraine to win, to free its territory, to create a free state with the Prime Minister and with the President, who deserves deep respect for how they stood up to the situation, and we want to restore the country to them. Part of the reconstruction of the country will certainly mean support - and now, as Minister of Health, I must say this - for their health professionals, but also for their patients in cooperation with other countries of the European Union. So I would be very happy if, let's say, it's time for the Health Committee to focus on this intensively. I am prepared if the Health Committee prepares such a seminar to discuss the next steps across the political spectrum, but I can assure the Czech public and you, colleagues, 100% that in no way will our health care in the Czech Republic be threatened in any way. There is no way that the operation of the centers will be compromised, but yes, yes, certain restrictions will mean that. We know about them, we're counting on them, and we're preparing a variant solution for them. In any case, we will provide quality care for refugees from Ukraine, because those children who have experienced the horrors of war and their mothers deserve it. In any case, we will do our utmost to enable their health professionals to help Czech health care and to use their qualifications as best as possible. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs President Schillerová very much for her offer of cooperation and I will be very happy to use her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u46	Thank you, Minister. Minister Zbyněk Stanjura has now signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u47	Thank you for the floor. Well, since we've already done the interview on Tuesday, and not Thursday, why not, but we're stalling the standard points. There have been some questions that I want to comment on. Suppose I can start with a lawyer's or notary's safe house. Before I go to any legislative analysis, I'll just remind you, remember Vrbětice? How did our police forces and intelligence reveal Russia's terrorist act on the territory of the Czech Republic? We all remember. Do we remember the reaction of the Russian Federation to this revelation? Putinův Russia has officially created a list of hostile countries on which only two countries from all over the state - the United States of America and the Czech Republic - have been stationed. [[the world?]] Only the context to know when, at least since what had been discovered, what had happened in Vrbětice, in what international context the position of the Czech Republic vis-à-vis Russia was. Sberbank was known to be a Russian bank. Lawyers and notaries certainly belong to a more educated part of our population - the fact that they have to study for a long time, pass exams so that they can perform the profession. I don't know the exact number, but I know that we have more than 10,000 lawyers, and this problem concerns 50 of them, 50 of them more than 10,000, so it's not a mass problem, and most lawyers, the vast majority of lawyers knew that Sberbank wasn't suitable to deposit foreign money there. I'm not talking about their own money right now, we're talking about clients' money. The law thinks of a moment when a bank goes bankrupt. It must be said that Sberbank did not fail as a result of sanctions, but as a result of the fact that it absolutely lost its clients' trust. Therefore, legal procedures have entered into, deposits are insured to more than 100 000 euros, which is roughly CZK 2.5 million, and in justified and legal reasons this amount can be increased by another 100 000 euros. One of those legal reasons which is directly stated in the law is when it comes to money in the legal or notary custody. So that limit isn't 100,000, it's 200,000. It is Section 41 of the Bank Act - for those who do not believe that it is. But several conditions had to be met, and we don't know yet if they have always been met. That means, at the moment of this safekeeping, the attorney or notary should have told the bank that it was in his account, but it's his client's money. If he has failed to fulfil this obligation, the benefit of the $100,000 protection will fall more. I can't tell if they've all done it or not. The second thing that counts is the money of the particular client, so if the particular client had his own money in Sberbank and his attorney or his notary deposited it at the same time, it adds up, it's not special cases. It must also be said that Sberbank was rather lax, so the payout for these clients started with a week's delay, not on March 9th, but on March 16th, at this point about 25 percent of those who have a fixed amount plus EUR 100,000, which, in our case, is about CZK 5 million, rounded so that we do not work with the exchange rate. I think the course was set by the $24.99 guarantee system, so 25 crowns is a good number. We're following the law. The demand of the Czech Bar Association to return more simply cannot be realized because it is against the law and the law is harmonised, that is, the amount is not made up, it is not the invention of Czech legislators that it is 100 000 plus 100 000 euros, but there is nothing else we need to do about it. This means that there is a real risk that those who had more than 200,000 euros there will have to wait for the insolvency administrator to start selling the assets that Sberbank has. No one's gonna help him. [[17,00 hours]] It's a thing we do. I know there was a subcommittee where I would say there were more guests than Members. I'm not criticizing that, I know the subcommittees aren't very numerous, but I know that all the institutions involved were there, they gave their point of view, and I think they're all trying to figure it out. That sometimes it's not good news or entirely optimistic, that's true, but I first described the international context. And those lawyers should apologize to their clients if they have chosen such a risk bank in this international context. That's just the way it is. And the state isn't here to solve everything for everyone. That's really not possible. So I think we're proceeding as far as possible to act. Even those who have, professionals, will deal with these specific cases. We're also putting pressure on Sberbank to give more detailed information, because they haven't given them all yet. I'm saying, so far, 25 percent of the cases have started to pay off. If I have a good number, it's about 2,781 clients. It's not a small number, it's hundreds of millions in order. So if we split it, on average, that should do it. But I'm sure there will be cases where the house, the apartment, the property would be worth more than the five million crowns, that's reality. And I can't, even if I wanted to say that everyone gets their money fast. It's just not possible. However, at least 100 000 euros can be released if the lawyers have fulfilled their obligations and indicated that it is not their money, even if it is in their accounts. So much for the question of attorneys and notaries. I think the authorities in charge are moving forward as they should. Unfortunately, what Vice-President Havlíček said does not have good data and makes such big conclusions here. I have a graph of Eurostat ahead of me - you will believe that it is not the Czech government that is doing this - which compares inflation for February this year. Yes, you're right, third highest. There are two countries above us that have the euro, so it does not affect the euro. According to European statistics, it is 10 per cent to 11.1, but this is not important. I'm just saying there's no imputed rent in other countries. But for each country, Eurostat lists the basic division into four basic areas that create inflation: energy - one package; food, alcohol, tobacco - the other package; other goods - the third package; services - the fourth package. For the Czech Republic, energy accounts for about 3% of headline inflation. So Mr. Havlíček is smarter than Eurostat. I'm not surprised he thinks so, I don't quite share it. I say that these are data which are Eurostat, not data from the Czech government. Any of the Members or Members may wish to protest, so let them deal with Eurostat and give their methodology. The same effect according to this methodology has other goods, which is about 3%. And around 2 percent of their methodology consists both of food, alcohol, tobacco and services. Mr Havlíček said here, and there is no reason not to believe that energy prices are the biggest threat to about 20 percent of households. I do not know if for members of the ANO movement Miroslav Kalousek is the standard of truth. If so, there has been a significant change in recent months - probably because Miroslav Kalousek is no longer sitting here. But I don't want to argue now if it's 18, 20 or 22. We realize that. But at the same time with one breath, he's suggesting surface measures. In other words, in my opinion, focusing on those who threaten it the most is the right way. Then we can also help them more than if we gave it across the board. It's a point of view. Both roads are legitimate, I'm not questioning that. I just think that concentrating help on those who need it most is just a better way. PHM prices and taxes. Undoubtedly there was a panic on the stock exchange about 14 days ago, which was then transmitted to individual Member States of the European Union. I have data here, but they're from March 8th - comparison of all states. I don't think it's worth arguing on March 8th today. Developments since then have been relatively dynamic, luckily in the right direction. So let's think about the theoretical possibilities and whether it's right to use them or not. I think we've been honestly debating the government and the government coalition about all the possibilities that the law allows. The first - the ceiling of the price. I think it's the worst option, but it's possible. I only know one state that did it, and there's a supply problem. And this is no longer true for foreign tourists, for example for foreign vehicles, and for example for four days they stopped truck traffic altogether, or yes, they banned truck traffic last week for four days, which certainly reduced the pressure on the drawdown. However, we must say at that point that the difference between the market price and the ceiling price is covered by the state budget. At least that's what's happening in the country that's given us the opposition as a role model. In other words, taxpayers pay it anyway, it just doesn't show much. And very often from the taxpayers' money of that state, in this case of the Czech state, for example the VAT that our seniors pay every day when they buy something, we would also match the price that foreign citizens would be tanking - and we are transit countries - also foreign trucks. It is a solution of non-market, expensive, long-term unsustainable, which is why we rejected it. But there is. The second option is to reduce taxes - either temporarily or permanently. I think a temporary tax reduction is a contradiction. Also, someone here promised to lower taxes for two years and then, luckily, didn't keep it. [[From addictive activity?]] We weren't with them, so I'm not gonna criticize that it didn't happen. I'm criticizing the promise that was made. But it's very easy to temporarily reduce taxes, and it's very difficult to decide at which point I'm going to put it back when I talk about it being temporary. The moment the government temporarily returns it, or the House, it means a leap increase in the price. It's very common. So with VAT, it's a flat-rate measure again. At first, it would benefit the more vibrant part of the population, so we refused that it was actually pointless. And you can believe, you don't have to believe me, all the finance ministers agreed on this at ECOFIN - even those whose countries that temporarily reduced VAT were either not there or didn't participate in the debate, but those who performed warned about it. And they warned about the competition between the Member States. I think it's a logical decision by people who live close to the border. It doesn't matter which Member States they just go where the taxes are temporarily reduced. What is legitimate is the debate on the reduction of excise duty, which is harmonised, and minimum values are determined. We all know it. With diesel, it's a crown of fifty, with petrol of three crowns of seventy. Consumer taxes were collected last year about 82 billion, of which 57 billion were diesel and the rest for petrol. So, although there is a higher excise duty on petrol, in terms of the volume of consumption, diesel is crucial. We have to answer the question ourselves when the House and the Senate have reduced the excise duty on diesel by one crown since 1 January 2020, so whether we have seen the koruna twenty-one, because that is also the VAT on those totems of reduction. The honest answer is they haven't. There's no way it was fully projected, part of it certainly did. Even in this case, it would be true that this would not be reflected entirely but partially. And all we can do is speculate how much it would be. It would be the crown of 50 again. Nobody wanted to cancel the road tax. Well, the government majority wants to cancel it. And the reason isn't that it's... We're not stupid enough to think it has any effect on the price of fuel. I don't know how anyone could even think that one of us could argue like that. But let's leave about 3.8 billion, that's the right calculation, 5 billion would be if we completely canceled the road tax, and we can't do that, because over 12 tons is harmonised, hence mandatory. This is money that, especially for small carriers, will remain and can be used by small entrepreneurs themselves as best they see fit - whether for wages, whether for other costs, for the current compensation of increased fuel prices or increased energy prices. That's up to them. [[17.10 hours]] Road tax is extremely bureaucratic. There is a low efficiency of tax collection because of the complexity of bureaucracy, relatively low rates and a large number of taxpayers. Read the SAO report, which was published a few weeks ago, long before the stock exchanges panic arose and fuel prices soared. And it's a permanent measure. Permanent, that is, every year they will remain less than 4 billion entrepreneurs, every year they will save bureaucracy, they won't have to hand over these complex forms, they won't have to pay five advances a year, they won't have to control it, enforce it, record it. There's room for saving again. Exactly when I want to reduce the number of employees in the public administration, first I cancel the agenda, the agenda will not be at that moment or will be significantly lower. At European level, we will also initiate the abolition of compulsory road tax for vehicles over 12 tonnes, because it is a relic from when there was no charging when there was no toll. Maybe there was some logic at the time, and today it doesn't make sense. We'll see how successful we will be in this direction, but that won't go quickly, we'll have to admit that. Another of the instruments that the government can choose is factual price regulation, or raising the maximum margin, when we say it nicely in Czech. It must be said that we have a highly competitive market. We have about 800 service station operators, which is 2,800. We started a preventive step, and I think that's right, that is, in cooperation with associations - both the one that brings together the large gas stations and the one that brings together the independent small ones - we found a relatively simple, not too bureaucratic, system to report average prices on totems on a daily basis. It is an IT solution that we have built in the order of units of days, and more than 90 percent of service stations have fulfilled this obligation. We released a press release today. It turned out - and I think it is also a good thing to say - that there were no disproportionate margins on a large scale, that they actually correspond to margins as they did in the past months. I think it's described quite well. However, at least until the end of March, perhaps longer, we will continue to monitor and, in case we find any excesses or more massive abuse of the situation, we are prepared to use this unusual but also complex and complicated tool. At this point, it's enough that we're doing the day-to-day check. I'll leave the fight of the YES movement to preserve the incorporation of biocomponents aside, it's kind of a folklore. I didn't even know that when I first ran for the House, that the day before the election, Andrej Babiš here was lobbying for an emergency meeting of approval - I don't know how many memorials there are, Marek Benda certainly, but he voted against, he has a clear conscience, maybe there were others - the day before the election to imagine it, there was an extraordinary meeting that voted on the incorporation. But we're not there to defend the economic interests of one particular holding. I think the main reasons are ecological. I think those who advocated it years ago had to admit that this isn't the way to go. That is why we - some of us, including myself - are careful about new, great ideas to contribute to the improvement of the environment, not being tried and then being introduced. I think even a bad experience can be used to make a path that doesn't lead. That is basically all, and let us not expect any rapid panic reaction from the government. I think that would be a mistake. We know for ourselves, and we're about to try out how long the legislative process is going on when you have some tax law, and the recognition of gifts for Ukraine is quite simple, yet I have signals that it won't pass in the '90s. I fully respect that, so let us imagine a normal legislative process where we want to reduce, raise, abolish. It's never like it's based on hours or days. I will not file a tax law for myself in a state of legislative emergency. I do not think that tax laws are to be presented in a state of legislative emergency. We're too used to the instrument. As I recall, before the covid, it was our government and our majority, once tried it and it turned out badly in the Constitutional Court. I think it is also a good experience to know that this instrument is to be quite exceptional. Even in this refugee crisis, thanks to the opposition, we have smoothly passed some laws in a state of legislative emergency, but I do not think they have put up with delay. I think tax laws are to be discussed properly so that arguments are made for and against every Member, every Member, when they vote on it, knowing that they were not under time pressure and that they could make a proper decision. And just to the impact, when we're talking about these expenses: if we lower the excise tax on oil by a crown of fifty, it's about 8.2 billion, but that's 9 percent for SFDI, so that's what everyone can multiply, it would be about 4 billion for petrol, so that's not a small impact. And it is not at all guaranteed that this money times 21 percent VAT would certainly save our consumers, those who fuel... I think I've answered at least some of the questions that have been raised, and I'm gonna ask everyone. I know you have priority rights, but we're actually going to these interpelations so far. It's Tuesday, 17.15 and we're de facto having an interpellation. Why not, but then let's do them on Tuesday, let's not do them on Thursday! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm registering three applications with priority rights before the program is open. First, Vice-President Richterová, then Vice-President Havlíček and President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u49	Thank you for the floor. I really wanted to react very briefly, for example, to the debate at Sberbank. I wanted to point out that this really is exactly the kind of topic that we discussed thoroughly on the subcommittee. We have dealt with warnings that hang publicly and are also targeted to those lawyers who are concerned with the matter, how the guarantee system of the financial market communicates, how the Czech Bar Association communicates and so on. We've been going over all of this. I want to say that this is precisely an example of things that are being discussed, which is being addressed thoroughly, but I think that now that we have some sort of possibility of interpelling where the problems are not addressed, let's use interpellation and I would very much like us to move forward on the points that we are supposed to approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u50	Thank you, too. Vice-President Havlíček will now appear and be ready for President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u51	Thank you. The Minister of Finance is right. It's more of an interpelation, so it'll really be in one minute. But I felt that the finance minister of the country, who is extremely good at it, and that the energy situation is actually very good and that the measures we are doing are extremely helpful. We can talk about what inflation is or is not composed of, but the important thing is that it is the third highest in the EU, and unfortunately we are going up here because we were on average before the end of the year. And, yes, the 20% that I said here, we're not happy that 20 percent of people are rushing into energy and general poverty, but when we said that, you laughed too much. When we said that, you arrogantly cowered your shoulders that nothing like that could happen. That is why I said that your former co-counsel, former Minister Kalousek, also said so, not because we adored him, but because your colleagues already said so. Unfortunately, we've lost three or four months. And as for all the support, we may not have to deal with fuel, biofuels, road tax, and those pointless reports that no one can even check if we're dealing with energy support. But if we look at the consumer basket and we see that more than 50 percent of the energy, food, transport is represented in it, we simply cannot stand idly by not doing anything in terms of fuel and at the same time doing nothing in terms of energy support. I admit that fuel is a difficult thing and that it is difficult to find a compromise. I also acknowledge that when excise duty is made today, it will be difficult to measure whether it will manifest itself with a crown, with two crowns, as well as, as the Minister said here, he does not know how it was reflected in the reduced excise duty last year. Maybe it showed up that it worked and that the crown actually showed up. We don't know that today. But the point is, we're not doing anything about the energy support. [[17.20 hours]] Yes, the finance ministers will applaud each other at the summit or at the Council because they would like to save money. I quite understand that from the point of view of finance ministers. But why are the 24 countries in the European Union taking large measures, and we are still digging into the fact that we are making social measures that will affect 5 percent of the households and will not even cover those that your fellow comrade Miroslav Kalousek claims to be in big trouble? But I agree, it's for questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u52	Thank you, too. Now, President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. He's gone, Mr. Secretary. I'm so sorry, because I wanted to talk to him, and now the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State will have to listen to this. I'm sorry, it was targeted at the Minister of Finance. So I hope that next time they won't cancel the debate on Prima, where he was supposed to be with me this Sunday, so we can settle this, all these arguments, Eurostat, numbers - I'm ready at any time - and that he'll finally go back to the debate with me sometime. Although I understand that the debate in Václav Moravka's questions was more pleasant. I'm gonna say one thing. It was good old Zbyněk Stanjura again as I knew him in opposition. But he's not in opposition anymore. I'm sorry he's not here because it's stupid to talk to him when he's not here. Cropping is wrong, tax cuts are wrong, subsidies are wrong. That's bad, what's good? It is no longer about being in opposition and criticizing government proposals. Now he's supposed to submit. Unfortunately, we cannot verify the impact of the road tax, we drew from the budget of 2021, because the government said that it abolished the road tax but did not discuss anything. There is no material in eKLEP, there was no vote. So even if it's 3.8 billion, there's a hole in the SFDI, it needs to be realized. So we voted here one day on the budget of the SFDI - and I submit that we raised our hand for him - so that there would be a hole the next day. And if it's 4.5 or 3.8, it doesn't really matter right now. I'll wait for RIA to be there when the explanatory report is done, and it'll be calculated, and we'll check it out. Anyway, we don't know. So then there can be any numbers that they want. It was just 4.5 in 2021, so my former government colleague Karel Havlíček came out of it. You know, it was said here that we abolished the excise duty. But we were then - and I was against it as Secretary of Finance - because it was 9 billion, that one percentage point, and we just had a lot of spending at the time of the covid - but we didn't do it for the change in totems at the time. At the time, the situation was not as heated as it is now, but because our carriers had huge problems and were unable to compete. Karel Havlíček, my colleague, through the Vice-President, remembers those endless negotiations where we argued whether two crowns or a crown. I'm more asking what to do. Here we hear so condescending that we're probably completely stupid. But I can't hear what's going to happen. After all, the minister here appointed - and I think he was very close to the truth - how many tens of billions are collected in taxes because of these increased prices. For January alone, it was 62 billion. I'm curious to see how the April macroeconomic forecast will turn out. There the government will have to process more clearly and approve the convergence programme, it will have to send frameworks to the European Union. It will have to say how much the deficit will be, how much it will be not only in 2023, but in 2024, 2025. Of course, that's what we're going to read. So he must have a clear economic account of what he will do further economically with income, spending. The Minister of Finance has already admitted that there will be an amendment, he said so in July. The question is whether the government will send it here in July or will be effective in July - that is, of course, a complete difference. But it doesn't matter now, I don't want to argue about it. The point is, he admitted it. And we said again, use it as a reparatist and straighten those things out. Not only will you now have increased spending thanks to Ukraine, whether you look at the defense, the interior, the social, the health and so on, but use it and download, for example, the Public Health Insurance Act - what are you going to bleed for - and of course we will fight for it, we will and there are enough of us, for the 14 billion that the Minister of Finance painted there to make it work anyway if you still need the money. We've got about 300,000 refugees here, and it's not final, and so on. The Minister of Health himself guaranteed me, and I thank him - that we do not want to make health care worse for our citizens. I can't see it's an interpellation today. We have asked the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has granted us, he has answered, and we are debating these matters with an entirely helpful hand and an offer of help. So I don't think it's necessary to dehoneze us here in some way, drop us down, point things out. There's just one more thing. Can I get some paper, Mr. Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u54	Of course, take the background and continue the post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u55	[[He's going to get the paperwork.]] Thank you. Such a little foul - and the minister is here. Minister, I can address you directly. You were talking about Andrej Babiš making some pre-votes here. So my colleagues immediately found it, the vote, and now they put it in my hand. It was May 27, 2010, the 49th vote. I presume that the YES movement was not in the House at the time, we did not have our MPs. It was a revote of the presidential veto, where the ODS for 18 Members, the KDU for 8 Members. Then I even dare to appoint the father of the founder of the TOP 09, former Member of Miroslav Kalousek, who was also in favour. So that's the whole truth about the bios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-22-ps2021-016-01-000-000.u56	Thank you, too. As I am currently not registering any application with priority rights, we will proceed to discuss individual items under the approved agenda. I'm opening the first point of today's meeting, and that's
