ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 16th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I say that these Members of Parliament have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting... [[Some Members do not have a voting device.]] Is your device not working? So I'm gonna check you all out one more time, and I'm gonna ask you to re-enlist with your ID cards. Mr. Members... Gentlemen, are your cards not working? Hold on a second. In the meantime, before the device is repaired, I'll read the apologies. Andrej Babiš apologizes for working reasons, Benešík Ondřej - working reasons, Bernard Josef - working reasons, Dufek Aleš - health reasons, Feranec Milan - health reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav - work reasons, Hájek Jiří - health reasons, Šimon Šimon - working reasons, Horák Jiří - health reasons, Hrnčíř Jan - health reasons, Jílková Marie - health reasons, Kasal David - health reasons, Kettner Zdeněk - health reasons, Knechtová Lenka - health reasons, Lisová Martina - health reasons, Lochman Ondřej - family reasons, Metnar Lubomír - health reasons, Quittová Petra - health reasons, Šebelová Michaela - without giving reason, Štefanová Iveta - working grounds, Tureček Karel - foreign travel, Válková Helena - health reasons, Vích Radovan - health reasons, vlček Lukáš - health reasons, Volný Jan from 10 to Wenzl. I also note that Mr Jiří Hájek cancels his apology and apologizes to Mr Hájek Martin for medical reasons. Among the members of the government, these ministers asked for an apology: Bek Mikuláš - working reasons, Hubáčková Anna - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena - health reasons, Lipavskýý Jan - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk - working reasons, Rakušan Vít - working reasons and Válek Vlastimil for work reasons. Today's negotiations should begin with the fixed points, item 59, House press 110 - the law on conflict of interest, first reading, and item 25, House press 177 - cancellation of sales records, first reading. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda of the meeting, i.e. points from the block of laws at first reading. I'll ask the Members if their voting equipment works? So just have a little patience. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would... Is it working yet? Yes, well done. So it doesn't work... Okay. So I'm going to try and unsubscribe you all again, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. If this is not working, I would suggest that we continue because we will not vote yet. Colleagues seem to have the voting device in order, so we can move on to the next one. And now we will discuss the Members' proposals for amending the approved agenda of the 16th meeting. I have a number of applications here and Mr Julius Špičák will be the first to speak, and I now have the priority right of President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech today, I must return to Wednesday's events here in the Chamber of Deputies, because something has happened here that simply cannot be passed simply by a wave of hands. What happened here was that the government coalition, by force of its majority, deprived the opposition of its fundamental right to interpel the government. I must say that, in particular, from parties whose representatives before the elections were so keen to talk about better political culture and to call themselves democratic opposition, it is at least very hypocritical. It is not the first time that the coalition has shown its true face and its power is beating the opposition, for one reason only, because it is intoxicated by its power, and last but not least because it simply has a majority here. Sure, it's hard to argue with it, it's always about attitude.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Just please, Madam President, there's a voting device under discussion, so we're very sorry that there's a group forming in front of you right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u6	I understand, thank you, Madam Vice-President. I'm sure it's hard to argue with this, it's always about the approach that the government coalitions choose. It is your choice that you prefer the way in which the opposition is constantly ignored. And this approach of yours is certainly possible, probably from your point of view also comfortable, and even legitimate. [[9.10 hours]] What is not legitimate is to collect the opposition's right to control the government, to collect the right to ask questions about interpelations, and that is exactly what happened this week. The meeting on Wednesday afternoon was adjourned until this morning, although clearly there was no reason. The extraordinary meeting of the House, which concerned one of the STAN cases, was convened by the President for Thursday morning, i.e. for a time of written intercession. Now I may surprise you, but even if I don't like it, I have to say I understand, and I'm not gonna criticize that. It hasn't been that long since I've been a member of the government, and I understand you don't want to waste your time on law enforcement. But what was the reason you canceled the oral interpellation? Was there any other reason than your 108 votes? Indeed, the argument is not an extraordinary meeting where it was clear in advance that the programme would not be approved. If, at any time during the previous period, there were no interpelations, this was always done only in agreement with the opposition. It was just the opposite now. I'm sure you'll remember that I've been counter-proposing to interrupt the meeting by Thursday 14.30 hours, so you knew the will of the opposition, and you certainly couldn't get the impression that we weren't interested in the interpelation. Our democratic system is based on the government being accountable to the Chamber of Deputies and subject to parliamentary scrutiny. Parliament's control is irreplaceable and interpelations are an essential and integral part of it. The right to them is even enshrined in the Constitution, namely Art. 53 constitutions say that every Member has the right to interpel the Government or its members in matters of its competence. The rules of intervention are then clearly laid down in the Rules of Procedure, and that, as we know, is also the law. You didn't respect all that. Your coalition has bypassed parliamentary control once, despite the opinion of most constitutional lawyers, despite the opinion of the opposition, and more so, despite the opinion of your President of the Senate and the Senate Constitutional Commission, composed mostly of members of your parties. I'm talking about an emergency, of course. Although we have kindly offered you an extension of 30 days as the strongest club, you have chosen a path which, at least from the point of view of the Constitution, is very controversial, and this is an extension of the emergency situation by 58 days. You will not now have to settle accounts after 30 days, in the words of President Pekarová, debilitating discussions with the opposition will simply fall away, and with it, of course, the many times mentioned parliamentary scrutiny. Recently, your government has celebrated a hundred days in office, and I would like to ask you a rather simple question about the hundred days. You know, colleagues and colleagues, how many times have there been oral interpelations? Three times. Yes, three times all over. At the same time, it would be difficult to find a time when opposition issues were more understandable. Our country is facing an energy crisis, a migration crisis, inflation, and prices of everything are flying up. We are in an emergency, and yet we cannot ask as opposition. Because your government is avoiding parliamentary control and refusing to answer the understandable questions of the opposition, and I don't know if it's because you just don't have the answers or if you just want to prove to us that the arrogance of power has found a new ceiling, so logically we're looking for ways to deal with these things. That is why today I and my colleagues will want to include new points on the government's work with our specific proposals. I believe and expect the government coalition to face it, grab its nose, place our points and admit the debate on our proposals. I propose a point called Cancelled Interpellation and place it as the first point of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Now, colleagues and colleagues, I have information that the voting device has been corrected. Just to be safe, I'm going to check you all out again, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I firmly believe that everything is okay. Mr. Chairman Michálek will now perform with priority rights, then Minister Jurečka, President Výborný and Chairman of TOP 09 Jan Jakob is signed. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u8	Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Ladies and Gentlemen, first of all, I would like to appreciate the desire to respect the Constitution and Constitutional Institutions in Mrs Alena Schillerová's chair. Just to remind us how it worked in the last parliamentary term. President Vondráček always called and told us that he would order the meeting for Thursday, and so we said, "Well, you know, we don't like that, and he said, "Well, good." And that's how it happened. So if you're saying this hasn't happened in the last parliamentary term, it's not true. 15th meeting 14. 6. 2018 - were not interpelations, was an extraordinary meeting where you did not approve the program. 29th meeting 25. 4. - the program was not approved, there was an emergency meeting, there were no interpelations. 59th meeting 10. 9. - the program was not approved, there were no interpelations, extraordinary meetings. 81st meeting 28. 1. 2021 - no programme was approved, there was an emergency meeting, there were no interpelations. So I'd probably refer you to your club first, because your boss, Mr. Babiš, said, "Why do we have these interpelations to exhibate here?" That's what 30 said. 1. 2020 according to Czech Radio Jakub Michálek, then Prime Minister Babiš. That is why, as the Prime Minister said, he does not attend and will not attend their discussions. That's not my job. That's when the Prime Minister said. So let's get this straight. Let's be honest with each other, as it was said here, without hypocrisy, let the public see it, let the media see it. We have a program here today, we came here to discuss an amendment to the conflict of interest law. Constitutional Court 11. 3. 2020 abolished part of the law and imposed or basically told the Chamber of Deputies that it should fix it within nine months by the end of the year. He therefore delayed the enforceability to 31. 12. The Chamber of Deputies has resolved that people, that the public, that journalists, will have access to the property statements of Members and other high politicians. 21. 7. the amendment was submitted almost across the spectrum. As soon as the ANO movement found that the regulation of conflicts of interest concerning then Prime Minister Babiš would also be part of this, especially as regards media ownership, especially as regards public procurement, they began to obstruct the law. The law doesn't apply for 758 days, people don't have access to the property confessions, and 758 days have been postponed, and it's been bouncing around, and today we're meeting here to finally fix it, and people have access to the property confessions. So please, through Mr President, remember when you founded the YES movement, it was said that you were an anti-corruption movement. So why don't you put it in place now so that the property confessions aren't locked up in the Justice Department so that no journalists can look at them, why don't you want the public to be able to check out how politicians in office get richer? In 2020, Prime Minister Babiš received CZK 131.5 million, which is in the property return - data that are classified today, to which citizens do not have access - from the trust fund of a company that he does not own, and that is really money, which therefore comes from public subsidies and so on, from public procurement. We know it. [[9.20 hours]] So let's just get ready for what we're about to do. There will be another major obstruction aimed at preventing this Chamber of Deputies from discussing conflicts of interest. I am begging you and I am asking you through the President, remember your election vows - not to blather, in capital letters, NOT TO BELIEVE it was written there. Let us focus on what we have on the agenda, we will get to the meetings in the next week, and let us complete the important law that is needed to ensure that all politicians are transparent to the public, and the public and journalists can get access to property returns and that the concentration of media, political and economic power has been excluded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now with priority rights, Minister Jurečka, will prepare the President Výborný. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u10	Good morning. Madam President, fellow Members, when I listened to the Chair of the ANO Alena Schillerová movement, I felt as if I had not sat here in the last House for four years and had not experienced moments when the Prime Minister and his members of the government were not here to interpel. We experienced a situation where - quoted here by previous speaker Jakub Michálek - when the Prime Minister openly repeatedly despised interpelatory mechanisms in the House, he said that it was a waste of time, a show of lost time, that it was babbling, that it did not respond to the Members, that he insulted them here, that he said to the Members completely different things that did not relate to what he was asked and interrogated about. Yes, we're in a situation here that's not easy, but we have a prime minister here who regularly goes to interpelations. You may have noticed that the Prime Minister also answers those Members who ask him, responds in a matter of fact, decently, doesn't ironize, doesn't offend them. We speak as members of the government with the media, we answer questions from journalists at the press conference, we stay there to answer, we don't choose the media, we don't say which media may or may not at the government press conference, we communicate with everyone. It surprises me even miraculously, now some of you former members of the government who haven't interviewed some media for years, you've already started going there today. That's great, because you're already in opposition, so suddenly you've started changing the attitude. But really say those things openly. Say: At the time, we behaved like this, and now we come and suddenly completely changed our approach to parliamentary democracy, we behave completely differently. And I say, as a government, we're here for interpelations. Now that I've been looking at attendance, I quote you this, because I think it's worth it, so your attendance, previous governments, for example from January 2018 to February 2020: Minister Plaga apologized 80 percent of the intercession, Minister Hamáček, who apologized in some 60 or over 50 percent of the cases, Prime Minister Babiš was the fifth most frequent member of the government who didn't go to the interview, apologized from them. So I pray you, when you get out, say, "This is how we have dealt with it for us; this is how we have behaved; this is how we have communicated." Just for the record, it's a text from April 23, 2021. It's 9:00 in the morning, the sixth day of the Russian crisis, the House's interpellation begins. The President of Vojtěch Pikal, Vice-President of the Pirates, looks around the hall and reads the apologies of ministers. Babiš - working reasons, Marie Benešová - working reasons, Kateřina Dostálová - working reasons, Hamáček, Havlíček - working reasons, Minister of Health Petr Arenberger - urgent work matters. Interpelations didn't even start. So this is the result of practical action and functioning, and I could find many other Thursdays where such a description of the situation would be virtually exactly the same. I want the government to communicate, to be responsible. We answer, and outside Thursdays, the Member has the right to interpel any member of the government in writing, and we are obliged to answer, and if the Member disagrees, he will have the interview here for Thursday morning, in front of the cameras, in front of the public here, to confront a member of the government virtually unlimited with the problem he is dealing with. So just please don't say that you've been deprived of some constitutional right, that you can't interpel government members, that you can't control the opposition's activities. You can, do it, send interpelations in writing, we'll be happy to answer them. I'm gonna be very happy to answer in those Thursday afternoons and Thursday mornings, but there's a clear difference between the Prime Minister walking here, members of the government walking, responding competently, factually, without insults, without irony.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u11	Thank you, Minister. President Marek is now signed in Výborný and will be prepared by President Jan Jakob. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to thank both Vice Prime Minister Jurečka and President Michálek, because at least, through Madam President, President Schillerová, you have received clear statistical data and clear readings as is the case in this parliamentary term and as was the case in the last parliamentary term. I think you have a memory long enough to remember how your government, Andrej Babiš's government, actually approached the interviews, both the written ones and the oral ones. And if you're here today, I'm going to say this completely intelligiblely, shamelessly - let the public hear it - you're brazenly talking about being denied constitutional rights, so sometimes you say that you're a lawyer, so you should know clearly that you're not. Yes, the right to interpelation is incorporated in the Constitution and, at the same time, it is also clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that the interpelation takes place on Thursday, if it is the day of the meeting. Since this meeting, which is now being held, was suspended until Friday on Wednesday, Thursday was not the day of the meeting. That's why you really couldn't have had any right to those interpelations. And as it was with the interpelations, here he described both Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka and colleague Michálek. It's very simple. The fact that an extraordinary meeting was convened was not the will of us Coalition Members, but was the will of you and the SPD movement, i.e. the opposition. You have every right to do so, no one is denying you that, and the President of the House is also obliged to convene the meeting at some time, which I'm sure you know. It was convened on Thursday as President Vondráček made five or six times in the last parliamentary term. So the figures are clear, and if you look at how the ministers of this government answer your questions, then we, who were sitting here in the last parliamentary term, all - and I hope that even the judge of the ANO movement can judge this - see the diametric difference in the factuality of the answers that you are receiving and that we have received, especially from the Prime Minister of the time, the current Member of Andrej Babiš, whom one hardly sees here in this House, even though he is a Member. There's one more thing, please. You were talking about the power rush. Then I'll tell you how I feel. I feel absolutely helpless, completely helpless in a situation where there is a program to discuss and not just an amendment to the conflict of interest law - that is not the end of today. Today, the Chamber of Deputies meeting continues within 14 hours, we have another law, the EET Act, we have other laws in the program, it is not about one point, and all of this by obstructing the behaviour of your club today, you refuse to admit, you refuse to discuss not only the conflict of interest law, which makes us, and I am very sorry, really - and it is by priority that Members, senators, ministers who are supposed to suffer the fact that people see their register of announcements, their property confessions - so I do not understand why this is what you have been doing since you were in the government. You did not allow this law to be discussed here, and that was your representatives sitting on the working group, then representatives of the ANO movement and social democracy. So you didn't admit it then, you don't want to admit it today, and you're going to talk about something being denied. So I am not intoxicated by power, I feel utterly helpless from the way the opposition is acting in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Jan Jakob will now speak with priority rights and be prepared by Vice-President Olga Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chairman of the ANO Club has proposed the inclusion of the item Cancel Interpellation. I have to fight it. No one's canceled the interpellation here. This may be the case if we remove from the Rules of Procedure of the House of Commons § 110 to 112, which govern the way in which the intercession is discussed. That did not happen, so the proposal to include this point is completely irrational. Of course, you can interpelate, serve the written ones as well. You have that right at any time, whether it's Thursday or not. I don't know why you don't use this institute to that extent - probably because oral interpelations are in front of TV cameras. Previously, when you were in the coalition, colleagues for YES, through Madam President, your President said about this honourable chamber that it was a blabbermouth. Now that you're in opposition, you're demanding parliamentary scrutiny. Interesting change. And who said that then? The then Prime Minister Babiš, who thought he was not only the owner of a group of your parties, but the owner of all of us, this whole Czech Republic. Now he's pretending he's not the owner of anything, except maybe your movement. Why are you doing this? Because you're building up here so it's not clear that there's no conflict of interest law under discussion. What's in the law? To make it clear who owns what, even what media house, to make it clear if there is a conflict of interest or not. That is why there are so many applications for the agenda at the President's office. It is your right, but let everyone know that this is a clear obstruction process on your part, so that the law on conflict of interest is not just discussed, so that the following law on the definitive abolition of the EET, which has proved especially in recent years, is absolute nonsense, which has brought nothing to anyone except kneeling - once again your favorite term and access to entrepreneurs - your Chairman. That's your goal. That's all this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now Vice-President Olga Richterová will speak with priority rights. Before I give her my word, I'll read the apology. Today, from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m., Mr. Julius Špičák apologizes and Minister Petr Gazdík apologizes between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. for work reasons. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u16	Thank you, Madam President. honourable Member, honourable Members. I'm talking here with a fresh memory of what it was like to be an opposition MP, what it was like to use the Institute of Interpellation. Of course, I was not happy that a number of ministers almost did not go to interpelation. Of course it bothered me when the Prime Minister said about the intercessions, then Prime Minister Babiš, that they were useless, that it was exhibition. But you know what bothered me the most? When then Prime Minister Babiš happened to come when he attacked us here and insulted us from his position as Prime Minister of this country. So when he arrived by chance, we listened, for example, to me personally, in a situation where we were asking for true data about the pandemic - that I really was disgusting. With my pirate colleague, we have reached out to the enemies of the Czech Republic. Or a colleague from the ODS, Mr Blaha, was supposed to have Babiš's IQ measured again. Why do I say that? Such an answer to the interpelation and this concept of interpelation was in the past period since the ANO movement, by the speaker Andrej Babiš. Now, in today's situation, I would like to remind you: in every year of your government, in every year - 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 - you gave one of the extraordinary meetings we wanted on Thursday, you did not approve the programme and were not interpelling. It wasn't a deal, you just said it would be. So what is it today? You're using proxy arguments. They are pure fronts, they are pure obstructions of the ANO movement, so that the law of conflict of interest is not discussed, the law that we have been enforcing for years, a law that you, of course, do not like. It makes you nervous to see who really owns media houses, who actually receives a huge amount of public subsidies. But this novel can't take another delay. And if you're gonna build it this way today, let's just say what it means: that your prime minister, the president of your movement, Andrej Babiš, has received a subsidy from the state for CZK 14.5 billion. That would be enough for four months' salaries for all nurses in the Republic. And one more thing. If we were to allocate subsidies to Agrofert, if we split subsidies into a holding, for example, among teachers, it would be almost 100,000 for every educator and teacher in this country. So that's the point. You don't want to see this money, you don't want to see a huge conflict of interest that the president of your movement is in, and you don't want the conflict of interest law to be discussed. That's what's behind it, and don't cover it up with beautiful talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u17	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Now with the priority right of President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I allow myself to react briefly to the words of some of my previous speakers. I often hear here - now I remember at random from the Minister of Finance, but perhaps also from other members of the government, so as not to wrong him: Just keep it on the interpellation, why are you opening it here at that point or at that point, get off with it in the interpelations. Well, we'd love to. I have an interpelation file. That's where I take the initiative, and I keep working on it, but I don't have time to perform with them when I have an idea. [[Laughs and remarks from Members on the right side of the hall.]] In the computer, I mean. Now I hear from Prime Minister Výborný that when the meeting was adjourned - and I know it was interrupted, and I know they can't be off the agenda. But why was it interrupted? There was a counterproposal. She didn't have to be interrupted by Friday. So I think it's kind of like playing with words. Then I heard a series of statistics here. I can't deny them or confirm them, I really haven't done statistics. I'm glad I didn't get into Mr. Vice Prime Minister's and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs statistics, which means I probably had a decent attendance - I tried to go to interpelation as Secretary of the former Government, unless, of course, I was abroad for business reasons or there was something in the Senate. Otherwise, I've always tried to be here and answer honestly. You say, Mr President Výborný, through Madam Vice-President, that you feel helpless. In a way, we feel it about both sides, helpless that society is being crushed by a huge crisis here. I get dozens of petitions and e-mails every day from citizens, stories, specific stories, how much they pay for energy, how much they pay for fuel. And these are the people who belong in the so-called middle class who work. They say when it's gonna change, how it's gonna work out, what's gonna happen? We always hear promises after the government's press conference. It had a bit more tangible contours on Wednesday. Finally, the first swallow of flat aid, absolutely insufficient, absolutely insufficient! I think he's just gonna have to come up with another one. Those are the topics people are interested in. [[9.40 hours]] I was not a member of the Chamber of Deputies here, I was a member of the government when the conflict of interest law was discussed in the past period, I have the information from my colleagues, and here was the agreement on the law. We've always wanted so-called property confessions, which means to see - I have nothing to hide - anything, we supported it, until - and the law seemed to pass here in the past period - before President Michálek had read the change that was - obsessed with Babiš, you were obsessed with Babiš, you showed it clearly today - but the change that was recorded there because of the obsession with Babiš - poor Babiš, is not here right now, I'm totally sorry about how obsessed with him - the change would affect the mayors, it would affect other professional people. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Slowly they could not issue garden law, for example, a magazine, not a law - we have, fortunately, approved it here thanks to the YES movement, which passed here. So that was the problem, that eventually it became an absolute selanka, the law, that's why the law didn't pass. We have our own design, and you're making it look like a potato. EET, that's completely, completely out of order, that's out of order, that's your proposal. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] Your proposal to abolish EET is out of order, there are strong voices and we are preparing a seminar as an YES movement where entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, and a very strong voice of entrepreneurs, at least a voluntary EET. Thanks to us, the EET is voluntary as a result of the Covido for two years. So why is almost 60 percent of entrepreneurs still registering? Because it makes sense, but you're going to answer why you've cut another 12, 13 billion in your budget, why you've crossed out a major digital project despite your government's programming statement, where you're talking about fighting the grey economy and digitizing the government. And in conclusion, let me think a little bit. You keep coming back what we are, and you keep complaining about Babiš, making him a monster here, and how bad we were when we didn't come here. But you guys went to the election, that you're gonna change, that you're different, that you're better! [[In an elevated voice.]] And the change is that in a hundred days of your government, we could interpel three times. And that the Prime Minister is coming here, that's right - he hasn't been here once, he's been sick, I'm not criticizing that, but he's also been here twice from the three interpelations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madam President. President Josef Cogan will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u20	I greet you all, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we certainly are better... [[Rush in the hall.]] And that is why today there is this proposal for conflict of interest, and this proposal that you are preparing to explore as an opposition - and now I would not like to be wronged, perhaps colleagues from the SPD will not be building this bill, perhaps they will support it and it will only be a question of colleagues from YES - it is indeed a paradox. It is indeed a paradox that the opposition wants to build a conflict of interest law, a law to bring to the public, and a greater possibility for all to control policies that are designed to increase transparency, openness of politics, and the opposition will build this law. On the other hand, the coalition, which increases the responsibilities, where it increases the emphasis on being more open in order to obtain information, is so rampant. This really is a very paradoxical situation and I wonder what else we will see here from our opposition. [[is]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u21	Thank you, and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u22	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I had the opportunity to be present at the Grémium, where our President of the Club asked all the members of the Members' Clubs to be consulted very politely on Thursday. We were told, as presidents, that you would agree, and then you would tell us the output, and we were expecting it, and I, too, when I was sitting on the grémia, maybe I felt that you would agree on it and that we would interrupt the meeting by Thursday until 14.30 and that these interventions would take place. Unfortunately, then, when I was behind our chair of the MP's club, she still had no feedback, and then it came down to the fact that when the proposal for an interpelation fell, this proposal was not supported - or, respectively, the interruption of the meeting. I must afford to respond to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club for Mr Jakob, who said here that written interpelations can also be given. You are certainly right about this, Mr President, through Madam President, but by the extraordinary meeting that he sets out yesterday - because when you ask for an emergency meeting, the term is determined by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and if the date was set yesterday for the date when the interpelations are written, then both oral and written interpelations could not take place yesterday. At the same time, I would like to say that people, if you go to individual regions, talk to the mayors, talk to the captains, so you know that at the moment people are most concerned with energy crises, that means increasing energy prices, raising fuel prices, whether we have enough gas, and other things, but also very people are dealing with - and I must therefore stress - that there I see that it is the mayors and governors who are most concerned, and these are the strategic priorities of the Czech Republic to cope with the effects of the migration crisis. This document was approved on Wednesday by looking at the government's agenda, but the document is unavailable. I am being called by all journalists and asked as shadow minister if I could comment on this document, but speaking of transparency, openness and correctness, I am convinced that this document should be made publicly available, and it is not available. For example, I think that this document is a much more important document, which should be addressed by the Chamber of Deputies and discussed with those Houses of Presses that we have already submitted on 25 February to the Government, where the deadline for discussion of 30 days was not respected, yet, fortunately, these prints have already been discussed about the 0% VAT rate on energy, so that households and entrepreneurs can receive funds from renewable sources under the Modernisation Fund, but since these terms are such, it is not yet included on the agenda and will be included in the next Organising Committee. And I believe that, and I think, when I really talk to people in the territory that is troubling them at this point, I believe that this is much more bothering them and that we, as we were elected, would defend the interests of the citizens to discuss these matters here. At the same time, I would like to respond to one more President, Jakub Michálek from the Czech Pirate Party. I was very surprised by his performance when he said here that we promised something that we should remember our vows. So, through Madam President, I would like to tell him their promises, what did the Czech Pirate Party say? We're an anti-corruption movement. Yesterday we had an extraordinary meeting here, for example, about Stanislav Polčák's case. I did not notice, even though I called on Mr Jakub Michálek or a representative of the Czech Pirate Party to comment on this case in some way. We're against the accumulation of functions! That was another promise, and today we know that the Minister for Regional Development is also a Member. You said there was no way you were gonna do it that way, that it would be different, and you also said that you were against the political newsrooms. And if I look at all these ministries, I believe that the Czech Pirate Party has political representatives in every ministry. [[9.50 hours]] So I'd like to ask you that when you say something here, first of all, tell yourself what promises you made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u23	Thank you and now the President of the TOP 09 club, Mr Jan Jakob, will act with priority rights and will prepare President Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u24	Thank you, Madam President. In the words of my colleague Nacher: I didn't want to perform anymore, but unfortunately I couldn't. Madam President ANO Schillerová, please do not improvise like this through Madam President! Your prepared speeches, I must say, are rhetorical brilliant, and they are in line with the doctrine of your party, and if you improvise, we will probably learn what you really think. Like the fact that EET is nonsense, or that you miss President Babiš here and that you're very sorry. We're also sorry that our colleague was here at less than a third, but slightly over a quarter of the votes. I guess that tells us about his approach to work duties and access to this chamber. Unfortunately, I also have to respond to the words of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. What was happening on the Gremium - there was enough of us to remember how it was done, and unfortunately I have to say that the Vice-President is lying. We clearly agreed that there would be two procedural proposals and that we would vote on them. So no one - we clearly said that we would stick to our own and that they would choose to vote. That really was, and there were enough of us to remember that. And last thing: I am convinced - or believe, we all know, in the end the Minister of the Interior has declared it here, in the end we have the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies - that the plan will be published, it will be presented to us here, no doubt about it. I just got a little scared, but with all due respect, I found out that Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová is a shadow minister - I don't want to know what.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u25	Thank you and now President Tomio Okamura will speak with priority rights and will prepare President Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give my opinion on the SPD. The SPD movement supports the conflict of interest law and we also support the abolition of the EET. Taxes are supposed to be paid, which is why we have been pushing here, and in the end it has succeeded, a flat-rate tax for businessmen. We have an ambition here to increase the limit for flat-rate tax traders to CZK 2 million, that was our original proposal, now it's up to a million. So we want to make business cheaper for businessmen, to support businessmen, to take it away, to relieve the state administration. So as for the two laws that should be on the agenda today, our opinions are clear. I say again: taxes are due and we, as an alternative, have advocated, enforced and supported a flat-rate tax for businessmen. A lot of businessmen are already using it, that's good and we want to expand it. So I would also like to respond on this issue, here we have an expert in quotation marks, President of the STAN Josef Cogan. You have already received such a nickname yesterday, Mr Vice-President, through Madam President, from many Members - a random word generator based on your speech yesterday. [[Laughter and applause on the left side of the hall.]] And I'd like to ask you to keep yours - I'd say, I'd like to say dirty saliva, but don't make it sound bad to the SPD again - keep it! 'Cause we have your hints that the SPD's gonna be here about the conflict of interest law -- keep the lies! Our position has been clear from the outset, and let it slip some false opinions about the SPD. We don't need a free speaker, we wouldn't hire you, you wouldn't even be interested, because your qualities, as far as the speaker is concerned, wouldn't even respond. That means you're spinning everything around all the way from the left, from the right. This means our position is clear: we do not want to delay anything here and we want the laws to take place as quickly as possible. On the contrary, we would like to see the time for the SPD laws that you are blocking here as a government coalition. That's right. The ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates have blocked and refused to include our law on the program to increase the contribution to care for disabled people. Yes, that's your policy. You don't want to support disabled fellow citizens. We wanted to re-enlist this place, you voted against it here. That's why we'd like this to be discussed quickly in order to get into those SPD laws that you persistently reject. Furthermore, government five-wheelers here have refused to include the SPD law to be discussed on a minimum dignified pension, because pensioners are now in big problems financially, and we are proposing, following the model of many Western countries, that a minimum dignified pension be established at the minimum wage limit, or that may be the poverty limit. It's usually where, but the amount is plus minus the same, about CZK 16,000 a month. Under the legal conditions, of course, that means either years worked or disability. That means the inadaptables get nothing, of course. And from that amount of credit. This means that we want to help pensioners, we want to primarily retirees with an average or low-income pension to help them. And you're blocking it! So somebody's hobbling something or blocking it in quotes, so it's five-calice, good laws for people. Furthermore, the SPD here, among other things - we have proposed 21 laws, but perhaps the law "my house, my castle" that would increase security and the right to self-defense, the institute of so-called necessary self-defense for citizens who are being ambushed at home, you also refused to put it on our agenda. And we are on the side of decent citizens, we want them to feel safe. I'm saying this here so that we can say it in a balanced way here, what and how, and we're not related to your fights, your five-calice, with the YES movement. We were the opposition party during the last parliamentary term, so don't mix the opposition with one word here. There are two opposition parties. And the referendum law: you have also said that, you have specifically said, Josef Cogan of the STAN movement, that you do not want a referendum law - yes, I have said it once before, so I will repeat it every time, you are right - although I believe we are the last of the two countries in Europe that do not have a referendum law. [[The President: through.]] We're promoting democracy here, you want an elite government. This means that we would like to see these laws come into effect, and last but not least, I will remind you that you rejected our law here last week - or the week before last - our law to end the abuse of benefits that are inadaptable. And once again, it would be a good law that would bring savings to the state savings between half a billion and a billion crowns that we could just move, the money, for example, to solve the price increase. That means if you're talking about someone wanting to build something and something, we don't build it here, we don't build a conflict of interest and we want it to pass. The second thing is that whoever's throwing sticks at the citizens here as far as good laws are concerned, it's your government five-caliber. If you would at least suggest an alternative to these laws, to pensions, to increase the allowance for disability care, but you yourself will not propose anything and reject the suggestions of others. Last but not least, we are going to make one law out of those you will present in the near future. That is true, yes, we will, and that you want to take CZK 14 billion to health insurance companies and thus limit health care, available health care for citizens of the Czech Republic. That's completely scandalous, I must say, even in the current situation! And this law that Prime Minister Petr Fiala's five-calice government wants to limit and impair the availability of health care for Czech citizens and take 14 billion crowns from insurance companies, you have already put that law in the House and you have it in your budget, so we will definitely build it! I am already telling you this in advance because we do not want to allow health care to deteriorate for Czech citizens because of your government, the government of Petr Fiala, in which there is also the STAN movement. [[10.00 hours]] And, last but not least, as to the intercessions: this really is not fair on the part of the government's five-calice, because we were the opposition party during the last parliamentary term, so we experienced similar feelings in terms of interpelling on this particular issue as experienced by the current government coalition. We also didn't like the fact that the Prime Minister wasn't around enough, that's for sure. We criticized it, too, and we wanted to ask the Prime Minister. But at the same time, since we were both the opposition party and last term, it is true that the fact that you canceled yesterday's afternoon interview was just not fair, and it is not fair, because we do not have a chance to ask the Prime Minister for more than a month. And you didn't like it either, when you were in opposition, so now don't take double standards. Maybe next time you'll be in the opposition and again you'll be, I have to say in this case, justifiably complain. That's right. But we as SPD, I really wanted to ask you strongly: don't interrupt the interpelations. We have nothing to do with the ANO movement in the sense that they were in the government of the previous parliamentary term - we were not, and I strongly ask you, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, to do those interpelations, because it is the only place where we can ask ministers, and also the only place where we can ask the Prime Minister live. And we couldn't ask the Prime Minister for a month because he wasn't here the last time or the last time, which means yesterday. This means that we don't have a chance to ask the Prime Minister live or the Prime Minister directly in front of the public about the burning questions, whether it's expensive, whether it's the refugee wave now and many other problems. And it only shows me one thing that the Prime Minister is afraid to answer us live - because he was here, he was here on Wednesday, he was here yesterday, he might have been here, but the Prime Minister is afraid to answer us live, directly confront opposition representatives. That's right. I'm not afraid of it, I'm with the Prime Minister whenever I get on the air, but apparently the Prime Minister has a problem with it, and that's just wrong, it's not democratic. Finally, I would like to say that I recall the words of Vice-President ODS and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who said here, it is three weeks ago: You can ask the Prime Minister about the interpelations. After all, he said it, and it went through the media, we all heard it. So, if we're gonna ask you about the interceptions, we can't ask you for a month now, because the Prime Minister wasn't here about the previous one, and you canceled your government $100 yesterday. So that's my short comment on this. And I would really like to ask you, because at some point in the opposition, you - it's always the same thing as who - please allow us to interpel, because we have the right to ask democratically your ministers and the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u27	Thank you and now the President Marek is signed in Výborný. And before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. From 12 o'clock to the end of the day, Mr Oldřich Černý apologizes for reasons of work, and there is also an apology from Mr Julius Špičák for the whole day due to illness. Mr Miloslav Janulík apologizes today between 12 and 24 hours without giving any reason. Furthermore, Minister Michal Šalomoun apologizes from 10 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work and the last apology is the apology of President Markéta Pekarová Adamová for reasons of work, today within 13 o'clock. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u28	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. By your means, I would like to respond to the words of Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. So either he has a short memory or he's lying here, there's no other option, because we've all sat on that grémium, and the entire House leadership. There was really nothing to say about any agreement between the club presidents. We have made it clear that we are proposing that the meeting be interrupted by Friday 9th hour, among other things because we know the eloquence of opposition politicians, the YES and the SPD movement - in the end, President Okamura has now also demonstrated that he can talk about one thing for a de facto almost unlimited time. That, too, is why when you call an emergency meeting, yes, you can quite rightly come up with any point you want to discuss and to which you want to call an emergency meeting, such as the sun coming up tomorrow, then of course you can talk all day, but, indeed, Madam Vice-President, through the President, no such agreement that we will agree did not fall there. On your part, it was said that you would put forward a counter-proposal - I think President Schillerová can make it clear - and we said: Yes, the House - the sovereign will decide whether to go through your proposal or through the coalition's proposal. That's all. So here, please, really, really don't lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u30	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like that, because I can see that there may have been a misunderstand, she has set the record straight. Yes, I'm sure you're right that it was said from your mouth that you wanted to interrupt the meeting by Friday until 9:00 p.m., and President Alena Schillerová suggested that she make a motion to interrupt it by Thursday at 2:30 p.m. But at that point, you didn't say you were gonna vote no. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] At that moment, and I will tell you completely openly, it has not been decided which proposal you will support. I don't know what's so funny about you supporting interpellation? For what reason? We all knew that the extraordinary meeting, and the President made it clear there, would be maximum until lunch, and that it was possible to interrupt it, and at the same time, the President called on you in a way that it would be good for the oral questioning to take place. So I think that at this point in time and the laughter and this ridicule, I really don't think it's appropriate. If I said anything, I said here that both the designs were there. And so I may have seen it this way at this point that it is not decided that you may still be thinking about it, that you would possibly support these interventions. At the same time, I would also like to respond to President Jakob, who was talking here about the material of the strategic priority that was approved on Wednesday in the government. I think that if some document is not approved in some regime, it should be public. And you are correct in saying that we have approved here, or you, respectively, have approved under emergency conditions, that such a document will be submitted to Members by 14 April. So on April 14th, there will be a meeting for this document? I'd like to ask, though I think it's a very important document. And yet, Mr President, I think that my performance really was decent and correct. I don't judge you as president of the MP's club, nor would I dare, and I'm surprised you're judging my person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u31	Thank you. Vice-President Karel Havlíček is now registered and will be followed by Vice-President Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u32	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Member of the Government, just before I mention my point, which I would like to include in today's meeting, I will briefly pause on what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has said. I'll quote him, "We talk to journalists, we communicate with the media, we behave differently." Now, Mr. absent minister, a dumb barricade, that is the nickname of journalists to your government: arrogance, disdain, exits from press conferences, refusal to answer questions in the matter. We remember how Minister Rakušan rejected questions about the meeting with the police president, how he rejected questions about donations from anonymous donors, and the legendary was the press conference of the Minister of Industry and Trade Síkela to deal with the gas crisis at a time when the nation was waiting to see how we would react, how it would be with the reservoirs, how it would be with the purchase of gas, which took place for seven minutes without any questions. [[10.10 hours]] Which is why I would like to put the selhání of the government to deal with the gas crisis. The reasons are clear and clear. We are not only in an energy crisis, but in a crisis that is still underlined by the great threat in the supply of gas. And we're not just dealing with prices that are already tragic. The government isn't responding to them. Firms pay x-fold more, households pay x-fold more. Government social assistance is ineffective and the government is probably unable to respond at the moment because we did not learn this from the media, nor did we respond to the threat of gas shortages in the Czech Republic. I note that the magazines in autumn were full of 90 percent, the magazines in early March were full of 15 percent, which I would not blame the government, nor the Ministry of Industry and Trade, this happens every year because the season ends. But in principle, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and perhaps even after the opposition's pressure, came to the government with a solution to the gas cluster through the Material Reserves Administration, which was rejected. I would also admit that there might be a way if there were a variant B, such as the German way, that is, if the government had agreed with traders who would have bought enough supplies in storage, and would have motivated them, for example, by allowing them, or guaranteeing them a price, or possibly setting conditions in terms of interest or the like. None of it happened. We have a week after President Putin's threat has almost been met, when the gas supply to Europe has been cut off, and we have gas supplies for 25 days. I remember very well how - and in principle, I would say, quite factually - the opposition criticized us when we were supposed to be buying up oil reserves. I merely note that oil reserves are as prescribed for 90 days and we have kept them between 84 and 94 days, which means we have moved in the shootout plus minus 95 to 105 percent of the necessary reserves. At this point, we have 11 percent of our gas supply, 25 days, and the government is doing nothing. Therefore, I propose my point, as I have already called it, the failure of the government to deal with the gas crisis, and I ask that it be placed as a point before the points that were to be discussed, or as a point first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u33	Thank you, too. As the first point, Mrs Schillerová proposed the item today, so then as the second point. Thank you. And now, with priority rights, Vice-President Olga Richterová will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I just have to respond very briefly to the previous speaker, Vice-President Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová, and that is, we are in a clear situation here, in a situation where we, as former opposition MEPs, remember well how 17 Thursdays were without intervention during the last parliamentary term, because the government of the ANO movement has included extraordinary meetings there. Each year of the ANO movement's government, some extraordinary meetings were not approved and, of course, interpellation was not. And now we've been confronted with the demand that the interpellation be on Thursday with an extraordinary meeting. There was a meeting of all the presidents of the House's parliamentary clubs and the Bureau, and what was clearly said there was that we said: Of course, you have the right to vote on this. And our attitude was quite obvious. It's never been done, it's either an emergency meeting or it's an interpelation. So what's happening here today is pure obstruction of the YES movement, obstruction of the conflict of interest law - and I would point out - obstruction of who really owns the media houses, who gets what subsidies, and to resolve this with the chairman of your Andrej Babiš movement. Unfortunately, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u35	Thank you. Now I don't see anyone with priority rights. We will continue with the speeches of other Members who have duly applied. Please, Mr Vondráček, you have the floor, and we're measuring five minutes, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u36	Yes, Madam Vice-President, I am aware of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say that I really believe that we cannot start today's meeting day, given what happened on Wednesday afternoon, at any point other than the point which will be related to the failed interventions. I called it Breaking Democratic Processes in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And now to the individual performers, because it's on the subject. Please, you can't talk your way out of this. You can't distract, you can't use demagogy. There has been a breach of the Constitution and Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure. [[correct section]] If I can respond, first of all, really. President Michálek lies if he says that I simply called him as chairman and told him and told him that the interpelations would be canceled. I've always politely asked everyone if they would agree that there were no interpelations, and instead the opposition would have a bonus, their bonus extraordinary meeting. Most of the clubs were very helpful, very consistent. I admit the pirate club was most hesitant because they wanted to interpel, but it's not that you can vote it out. That's always been considered a veto right. If any opposition party said: I do not wish this, then this procedure could not be given. Mr. Michálek was there, Mr. Michálek is lying. Vice-President Richterová wasn't there, she's just wrong. [[Fun in the hall. Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Let me explain. This is really a big deal. You invented a technique to bypass interpellation once and for all. You can always do this. You guys just usually vote on Wednesday afternoon that Thursday isn't a meeting day, and we're not going to have an interview for the entire term. Do you get it? Do you understand that this is a principle? And that's why we're here because it's not about that one day of trial. And don't hide anything from a conflict of interest. You deserve this debate for Wednesday and Thursday. There's a huge difference between "don't do interpelations" and "cancel interpelations," not having them at all. What absurd logic is this from Minister Jurečka, or who said it: But the Prime Minister walks. So where was he yesterday? Well, he wasn't here, was he, because you canceled them completely. You were also talking about a higher culture. I don't have time for this. I have time limits. I'm only gonna read you all one note I read on Facebook, written by a former colleague of Hašek. "As a memorial and lawyer, I regret to say that Mirek Topolánek or Petr Nečas and their governments did not dare to do so. The House of Interpelations is a means of democratic parliamentary control of the government and is aimed at abolishing them in times of emergency, the migration crisis, the leaping growth of inflation, and so on is an arrogant message from the current House of the majority of the opposition." [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] I will, of course, also propose the relevant resolution. I beg you, because today's debate isn't going to do anything anyway, let's approve this point. If we don't approve it today, I'll always design it because we have to go back to it. There has been a major violation of the rights of parliamentary practices. It used to be customary here that if there was no interpellation on Thursday, everyone agreed on it. And the debate on the Gremium was, I'm pretty sure, and the deal didn't come up. So you didn't have the right to cancel the interpellation based on your own self-indulgence. Understand the principle! See what's going on here, what's the difference. [[10.20 hours]] I would still respond perhaps to a few demagogical remarks made here. Perhaps the best part was President Cogan's speech as chairman of the Constitutional Commission - yesterday he said it was unconstitutional - so don't be ridiculous. If it's not a meeting day, which it isn't, the interpellation doesn't come out of it, it just isn't. You guys just voted it out, and there are no interpelations. But what about Art. 53 constitutions that every Member has the right to interpel a member of the Government? What, under Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure, that each Member has the right to interpel, and the interpelations are always at the exact time and hour on Thursday and have rules? It's a completely different debate that these interpelations are uninteresting, that no one goes to them. By the way, why is Minister Jurečka arguing with this amazing participation? He's 43 percent, and that's not a hit-and-run, my dear friends. So I'm going to ask for this point. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u37	So you're suggesting a new point... [[MP Vondraček off the microphone: Breaking...]] And the assignment? As the first point before...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u38	As the first item in today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u39	Thank you, and Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u40	Madam Secretary... Minister, I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President, Minister, I should, in the spirit of updating the proposal to place a point on today - and it's really up to date, I'll explain - it's the approaching end of the suppliers of the last instance, which is coming up next week. I'd put this as a second point after the first point that my colleague Radek Vondráček has just read, because I think it would be good to clarify what's going on with these interpelations. But I'm not going to talk about it, and I'm not allowed to, because I don't have that point here, but I'm going to explain it to the DPI. Next week - and I think it's settled - the suppliers of the last instance end up with clients who were at Bohemia Energy, Comfort Energy, Energy ČS, Europe Easy Energy. That ends on 14. 4. for electricity suppliers and 17. 4. in the case of gas suppliers. I'll remind you that it was almost a million people who fell there, and there are tens of thousands of people who are constantly at the supplier of the last instance. These people are asking, it's crucial, some of them aren't responding, it's a current topic. And I would like us to place a point here that I would call the Information of the Minister of Industry about the end of the suppliers of the last instance, because the moment that the six-month period takes place, there is an unauthorized energy collection. That means these people are going to be illegally draining energy, getting fines, and then maybe shutting them down. This is a very fundamental thing, and it would be good for us to discuss at that point how many of these people are there, who are there at the DPI, if there is an information campaign going on, so that these people can make a statement on how the controls of the Energy Regulatory Office have turned out to be in the last instance's suppliers, in terms of, for example, a topic such as pricing, whether they have asked for it under the Energy Act or not, because I have read in the media the information that the Minister has called on the Energy Regulatory Office to present some concept of addressing the energy crisis in connection with the DPI. So I think it's the actual thing -- it's not a topic that a person would just spit in here. It's a matter where next week the biggest group of customers who were at Bohemia Energy, next week, maybe it's a coincidence, end the six-month deadline. I have a whole table here, and I communicate it honestly today and every day on Twitter, on Facebook, everywhere to keep those people informed in consumer protection. I wonder what you're going to say to me in a fortnight, you're going to give me some extraordinary points here, how it worked out with those people who stayed with the suppliers of the last instance, and they're going to start gradually disconnecting. Yes, you can tell me they're mostly people who have a cottage or a cottage, they forget about it. I think both citizens and here The Chamber of Deputies deserves it, even if it's information for 15 minutes, but just that we're talking about it, we're going to shine on it again. This isn't an artificial point. I was originally going to - repeatedly I have to say - interpelize, I have these interpellings in my system, look, seven, and I have the DPI there, you can look at it. So I wanted to draw attention to this every time, to address this awareness through the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, it didn't come to that, but I think it deserves an information point from the Minister of Industry, who happens to be the only minister sitting here, so it would be called the Information of the Minister of Industry on the approaching end of the suppliers of the last instance or the people who fell to the suppliers of the last instance coming up next week, as the second point before the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, or your item is the Information of the Minister of Industry on the approaching end of the suppliers of the last instance. [[A deal off the mic.]] So we're cutting off the approaching end. Thank you. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And now Mr Marek Novák is signed in and Mr Josef Bělica will be prepared, and then I have Mr Růžička, I see him here, so great. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear member of the government, I hereby humbly ask you to support the pre-selection of the press 66. It is a proposal by Members of Marek Novák, Patrik Nacher, Karel Havlíček and others to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code. I call for the second point of today's negotiations before the already firmly ranked points, which means for my colleague Vondráček now. What's going on? It is a small, but I think very important help for entrepreneurs in their business, because the different times when an entrepreneur does not have a guaranteed warranty period when buying goods, whereas a normal citizen does, from our point of view, is not quite right. We in this activity, that is, in enforcing the classification of this law, will continue because it is really about correcting errors and white spots in laws and regulations. If I could give you some examples, it is for example when you buy a mobile phone in the store, as a private person you have a two-year warranty period... [[The MP warns off the microphone the President that he forgot to turn his time on.]] And thank you for turning the time on. [[The President thanks you.]] However, if you are doing the same thing as the CFI and you get the same phone, you are running the maximum annual time that suppliers generally provide and do not even have to provide, for which we can praise them. If you do business as a self-employed person and you take over mobile technology from large suppliers, you simply guarantee a year for their goods, so-called your own, because you are legally obliged to provide a two-year warranty to your customers. [[10.30 hours]] The offer built on the sale of goods, such as technology, is therefore often an existential thing for such small entrepreneurs. Another case is indeed a situation where a person employed buys goods for his own use and is actually at risk of being forced to buy new ones in the event of a failure of any equipment after the first year of operation. As a typical example, it is, for example, IT goods. If you buy some software solution, including hardware, someone other than the one who made it is highly likely to be responsible for the second year's hardware, which is quite a paradox. However, there are also cases where manufacturing companies are less and less willing to guarantee entrepreneurs even one year. We should be aware that the current time does not really put our entrepreneurs under enormous pressure on the entrepreneurship obligations of the state, and that is why we believe that we need to help this business environment as much as possible to level up so that standards do not complicate life. I repeat that the basic principle of the proposed legislation is to provide the same protection of the right from defective performance to entrepreneurs concluding a purchase contract with the seller of the entrepreneur, even if it is a purchase in the course of his business. The possibility of an arrangement which shortens the period for the exercise of rights from defective performance under the legal limit of 24 months results in difficulties in defending against the seller in the event that the purchase object shows a defect and for no reason puts one group of customers at a disadvantage, especially small businessmen, compared to another - classic consumer. At its meeting on 29 December 2021, the Government discussed and assessed this bill of ours and took a neutral position on it, recommending that the Chamber of Deputies take these facts into account in the next legislative process, which I see as a very good basis for us to further work on this proposal in the legislative process and, in particular, in the committees. And I can already tell you today that we are ready for this proposal as well as an amendment which actually reflects the government's objections. So we are really prepared very well to present here and approve a standard that will help our entrepreneurs. If we can do something for self-employed people, it really is to facilitate the business environment and remove obstacles in legal standards, and this is a great help for them. So, ladies and gentlemen, I humbly ask you to help our citizens, our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with this small adjustment and please support this proposal for a priority point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. I'm taking charge of the meeting. Before I give another word, I'll read the note. From 10.30 to 12 today, for reasons of work, Mrs Renáta Zajíčková apologizes. I am now registering one application with priority rights and reporting to Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members, I think it should be recalled once again that this, what is being said here, and let us say how it really is, is simply and only the obstruction of the ANO movement, which is intended to thwart the negotiation of the conflict of interest law, and every other act that will increase, merely confirms that the conflict of interest exists, that you fear it as an YES movement, that the law will enter into force, that it will be strict that measures against conflicts of interest will be better enforceable, and only that it shows that we will, of course, not give up, and that what you are doing here is merely and only obstruction!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u45	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. We will now proceed according to the duly applied and next will be Mr Josef Bělica, which is on point 17 of the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u46	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose an amendment to the agenda, namely the inclusion of item number 17 of the approved agenda, which is House Press No 131 - the Government Bill amending Act No 13 of the European Parliament. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security and amending related laws, as the first point of today's negotiations before already firmly ranked points. During the last parliamentary term, we adopted an amendment to the Military Intelligence Act, which was also very important with regard to the defence of the state in the cyber environment. The adoption of this Act is also very important, mainly because I am aware of the need to ensure the adaptation of the Czech legal environment to Regulation 2019/881 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on ENISA, certification of cyber security of information and communication technologies and repealing EU Regulation No. 526/2013, otherwise known as the cybersecurity act. Time limit for the adaptation of the Czech legal order to the Act on Cyber Security pursuant to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As of 28 June 2021, the Act on Cyber Security has already expired. This law establishes the relevant European Union regulation, at the same time following a directly applicable European Union regulation and regulates the security of electronic communications networks and information systems. The purpose of this amendment is to establish a national cybersecurity certification body and rules on penalties for infringements of the Regulation. As the explanatory memorandum to this bill itself states, the applicable and effective legislation of the Cyber Security Act does not contain legislation which could be considered sufficient in relation to the Cyber Security Act. The role of the national cybersecurity certification body in the territory of the Czech Republic is not laid down in the current and effective legislation and there are no rules on sanctions for infringements of the cybersecurity act, which are the obligations of the parties to the regulatory regulation laid down by the Member States in the cybersecurity act. The National Cyber and Information Security Authority, as the national cybersecurity certification authority, will supervise the rules included in the European cyber security certification systems and monitor compliance with the obligations of manufacturers and providers of products, services or ICT processes established in the territory of our State and carrying out their conformity assessment, as well as monitoring the activities of public bodies that are conformity assessment bodies. Furthermore, it will address complaints made by natural or legal persons in connection with European cybersecurity certificates issued by national cybersecurity certification bodies or conformity assessment bodies and impose sanctions for infringements of the rules laid down by the Regulation and require immediate cessation of infringements of the obligations laid down. Although this is essentially a simple transposition of the directive of the European Union, I still think that we should deal with this law as soon as possible, because, as it appears as a result of current events, our society is becoming increasingly vulnerable to cyber threats. This is precisely the purpose of cyber security certification - increasing confidence in products, services and ICT processes through their security. The proposed amendment is the legislation which must be adopted in order to comply with the regulation in question. Failure to adapt the national law to that regulation could be considered by the European Commission as a failure to comply with the obligations arising from the primary law of the Czech Republic of the European Union, with the European Commission acting on the basis of Art. 258 The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was able to refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union. I didn't want to read the complete explanatory report here, which is available to all of us in the House's system, I tried to sum up only the most important and important aspects. Let us please address this bill because it is a really important subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u47	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Just for the record, you want to put that point 17 on the program... [[Member Bělica: To be the first.]] ... as the first item in today's meeting. Okay, thank you. And now with priority rights, Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, it is important to recall once again that this is merely an obstruction to thwart the negotiation of the conflict of interest law. And why is it so important to pass an enforceable conflict of interest law? This is also essential for the National Recovery Plan. So what does the YES movement do? The YES movement today threatens billions of euros for the Czech Republic. He may continue to obstruct, but I believe I will contribute to a change of heart for the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u49	Thank you. Mr Pavel Růžička is now duly signed up for the agenda of the meeting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u50	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Member of the Government. I propose to include a new point in today's agenda, namely the Parliamentary Press 182, as item number 1 of this meeting, before the points already included. I thank the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Richterová, very much here, through Mr President, because I think that she is the only one who is building this place. I assume he'll be performing for every MP who gives... [[Weak applause from the ANO movement.]] ... some proposal to change the agenda of the meeting. My proposal is very timely because it is a situation in Ukraine, and I do not know what should be more important at the moment than dealing with matters relating to defence. So maybe if the Vice-President would rather study the Rules of Procedure instead and learn how to manage the meeting without any trouble so as not to be a disgrace, she's here to get off... [[Once again, a round of applause from the ANO movement.]] ... like a parrot and parrots just what we've heard here a hundred times. So this Information on the approval of the deployment of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence Department within the framework of the rapid response forces in NATO member states in accordance with the active preliminary NATO defence plans by the Czech government, it is a government matter, it is information material and I think that, in view of the situation, it should be discussed at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. [[activated?]] I would like to begin by introducing, perhaps even for Vice-President Richterová, because she is not much involved in the commission on military intelligence control, what are the forces of NATO's rapid response. The forces of NATO's rapid response are special multinational units that serve the Alliance if it is immediately necessary to intervene anywhere in the world. Units are ready to carry out various types of missions, including civil protection, peacekeeping operations or the use of force. NATO's rapid response forces consist of both ground, sea and air contingents, perfectly equipped, flexible, interoperable - the rapid response forces are units for the 21st century. Two of the most important features of the rapid response forces are: the flexible composition of the units, when the specific composition and equipment of the sent forces will always depend on the conditions of the operation. NATO will aim, as part of the rapid response forces, for operational deployment of units whose deployment will be most effective, the ability to quickly transport and intervene anywhere in the world, within a limit of 5 to 30 days. The rapid response forces are able to carry out a military mission on their own, but they can also serve as part of other NATO forces. The rapid reaction forces shall be equipped so that they can operate separately without supply for up to one month. Unlike, for example, NATO missions in Bosnia, the rapid response forces do not function permanently in one place - they are broadcast only where necessary and for a time strictly necessary before the mission takes over the stabilization units. The rapid response forces are composed of parts of individual armies of NATO member states. The national composition of the rapid response forces will be rotating, but all units will first undergo demanding training so that they can be in international military forces. Since 2012, the rapid reaction forces have been rotating every 12 months, so even if they are functionally composed of still the same units, their national cast is different every year. The rapid response forces within NATO also act as a fundamental element of the Alliance's transformation, because by their advanced military capabilities it will give direction to the further development of the military forces, which I think, given the conflict in Ukraine - and as Mr Žáček, through the President, has acted here many times - I think this is a very important point that should be included, and all Members should get acquainted with what the Czech Republic is able to offer within the Alliance. I'm glad I ran out of time, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u51	I thank you, Mr Member, for respecting time, and with the priority right of Vice-President Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a beautiful day, and I am just reminding you again, it is a clean obstruction of the ANO movement. They're supposed to thwart the conflict of interest law, and why is that? Because an enforceable conflict of interest law, which is also essential for the National Recovery Plan, which we need to approve in a modified, government-designed form, is crucial for us to draw billions of euros for the Czech Republic, so this law bothers the Chairman of the ANOS movement Andrea Babiš, and I know it's unpleasant for you to hear the truth that you're going to be making up all sorts of petty things here, but I'm going to say it. The truth is, you're blocking the points you're suggesting. For example, as far as cybernetics are concerned, it could have been discussed as a fourth today if you hadn't been sharpened today. You pretend you're suggesting it, but you're blocking it yourself. So, yes, the conflict of interest law and billions of euros for the Czech Republic are threatened by the obstructions of the ANO movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u53	Thank you. It is now duly entered into the debate, not in the debate, but on the agenda of the meeting, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, who I do not see here, in which case I am putting the application to the end. And now Mr Aleš Juchelka will speak on the agenda and Mrs Klára Dostálová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am speaking purely here because I was prevented from intersecting the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs yesterday, which is why I need to, and it is very necessary for all those who live in the Czech Republic to discuss precisely the item of the programme that I will propose and I firmly believe that this item of the programme, which I would like to propose as the first one before the already fixed points, will be approved by the votes of the Members and Members. I think it is necessary to discuss the situation in which people find themselves by increasing energy prices, fuel prices, food compared to the surrounding states, which are simply helping across the board as opposed to us. Of course, no one can be taken seriously as an area aid by reducing the excise duty on the crown of 50 for fuel. This government measure is funny and is a mockery to all consumers when fuel is cheaper in the surrounding states by up to 10 crowns. That is why I called this point, which I wanted to interpel Minister Marian Jurečka yesterday, the Government's antisocial measures as a response to rising prices. Let me give my point briefly and ask you to vote on this point, because for a number of people, the situation is really desperate. What are the precautions? It's a housing allowance. Unfortunately, it is not enough, and even though it has been expanded, for those who reach it, it is a fraction of the announced higher hundreds of thousands. Statistically, it has been requested by 40,000 extra people, but even with extraordinary immediate help, it does not solve families when one parent is needed at home with a child and food, fuel, and energy prices are rising in front of him. Moreover, if a new interest on the mortgage after its fixation came from the bank, it is really for a number of people and families to be liquidated for their housing. [[10.50 hours]] Then it was an increase in life and existential minima, which is increased by an amount of 10 percent, respectively, despite the fact that the consumer price index increased by 11 and more percent in February. So here I think that the government, if it's taking such measures, is only doing so for a certain group of people, it's about 5 percent of those who somehow reach it and are entitled to it. However, these measures are insufficient, because many people will not help, nor will it help the business. If, for example, you come from Ostrava to Poland, you fill up your tank, and you buy it in a supermarket, you will save CZK 2,500 on one of these routes. And if you have an empty tank with us in Ostrava or Bohumín or Karvina, you only need to get it on your way to Poland. But what worries me very much is that a number of people have been forgotten by this government, and I have two groups on my mind - families with children, where one of their parents is at home, they have taken the liberty of having a family, and they are one of them at home with young children, and God forbid they have also allowed themselves to live in their own homes. These people are beginning to sink into our poverty, because energy and income poverty are becoming more and more people today, and they are talking about up to one fifth. And it doesn't concern the weakest, but those who keep this country above the surface in the context of social reconciliation, and that's the middle class. Where, then, is the announced increase in parenting, which the minister here announced at this counter? If it was going to be one of the other signals of this government, it went to one, as well as discounts on the taxpayer, another smoke signal for families, but if it was going to be something real and tangible, it's unfortunately worth five. The other group is disabled. They're the most beaten. Indeed, the despair that home - cared people have to deal with as all prices grow before their eyes, and even the care allowance has not increased, is great. After all, this government has not been able to increase the contribution to mobility at rising fuel prices, so it is a disgrace and I am terribly sorry. I thought if it wasn't last week, he'd announce it two days ago when the government was, and we'd do it here fast at first reading. You're constantly analyzing, sending out signals, and for the time being, you're creating false hopes in people with empty declarations. Twice a helper has also been heard from government officials. But you take your time, and those people will eventually cost us more if they end up on welfare. Therefore, I would very much like to open this point once again, called the Government's Social Measures, as a response to rising prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u55	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, if you're watching this ugly obstruction, covered in beautiful speeches. What's going on? The point is, in the past period, when the ANO movement had a prime minister, he talked about how interpelations are only good for exhibition, and when he came, he called us names, even to me personally. And now these beautiful words are supposed to cover up enormous hypocrisy. Hypocrisy lies in the fact that the only thing today is that the ANO movement wants to prevent the negotiation of a truly enforceable conflict of interest law by these obstructions. You look like you care about people, but you only care about yourself. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u57	Thank you. Now, Mrs Klára Dostálová, with a new item, will speak and Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am only taking the liberty, because the Vice-President, through you, Mr President, has really misjudged two laws here, so since she is watching the public, and as we have already heard today, Vice-President Richterová, through you, does not lie, but is wrong, so again she has been wrong, because she has confused the law on registering real owners and the law on conflict of interest. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] Madam Vice-President, I would like you to study this: the National Recovery Plan, milestone 212, you can look at it, it talks about the law on registering real owners, so please study first, then perform on microphones. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] Unfortunately, I really need to get off here because you refused to interpel us. You have rejected our constitutional right, and therefore we have no choice but to go through this round that we are going through today, because we, as opposition, are defending your interests and we want to get those burning points on the agenda. Therefore, allow me to place the first point in front of the fixed points, which means the first point in today's negotiations, a point called Available Housing for All. In connection with the two ongoing crises, whether it is the migration crisis from Ukraine or the related housing crisis of Czech citizens, there is a real need to address this, especially in large cities, and this needs to be dealt with fundamentally and not only as a problem of migrant housing, but as a long-term problem of housing our students, our young people, our seniors and so on. The current government closes its eyes to the problem and goes the way of crisis accommodation, we even hear the word tent towns in the media, but that is the worst thing that can happen not only now, but also for months. As a result, housing debt will grow, social tensions will grow, and side effects of such crisis facilities will arise. Analysis shows that most countries affected by the refugee crisis have already taken various legislative measures, such as Germany, Sweden, Finland and so on. It is therefore necessary to really look for a solution, a very fast solution that should bring about higher housing construction. Minister Bartoš has in his programme the so-called Technical Infrastructure Programme, which is a programme to invest land for subsequent housing construction. It can be supported, it has an overhang of candidates, it can be supported immediately. Then, of course, support the subsequent housing construction, and here, of course, it is also necessary to commend that modular buildings are one of the roads, but until you have invested land for housing construction, it will be difficult. We also need to realize that the emergency will end. Then the municipalities and regions that are exposed to these programmes are forced to compete, so we are once again growing a time deficit here. It is necessary to accelerate the approval of buildings, especially in residential buildings. And how did we go along the way? Well, we're extending the construction process for a year, so it's not gonna solve the crisis again. There is a need to address the lack of materials and products in the framework of construction. Whatever you ask the mayor, the biggest problem is the huge increase in the cost of material for the construction itself. There's a price, there's a shortage of it. We lack materials such as iron ore, we simply lack all the steel structures and so on. Someone has to deal with this, too. A new standard of living is needed. Again we offer cooperation, but unfortunately this cooperation is not answered, the Act on Available Housing ended in the last parliamentary term at second reading. I'm not saying it was flawless, but I'm sure it needs to be reopened and, for example, talk about the standard of available housing. After all, it is about allowing for building even a lower standard, which will not require, for example, advanced smart housing solutions, recuperation, etc. The crucial thing is that there will be no deterioration of the housing level for those who need to live, but it will substantially reduce the price and less materials that I have mentioned will be needed for this. And then last but not least, we should also talk about reducing the tax burden on such critically built apartments. I've already talked about this, and really, it could be another point, talking about the deficit or the material balance problem. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u59	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Now, for the record, in order to maintain the order of entries, I do not know if you have applied, Madam President, with priority rights, then Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Vice-President Olga Richterová, through the Vice-President, I wanted to respond basically the same way as my honored colleague Klára Dostálová, that they are two different laws, she said it for me. I won't do it again. [[11.00 hours]] But please don't keep complaining about how hard it was for that Babiš guy who didn't come to you, through the Vice-President, to interpellation. Focus on why there aren't interpelations now, why we had three interpelations in a hundred days, and why my colleagues have to ask questions and they have to suggest points in this way. Focus on that. What's done is done. You guys are better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u61	Thank you. Now, please, Madam Vice-President with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, you might actually say - that sounds so convincing what the YES movement is saying here, but the ANO movement's representatives, you are wrong, simply and simply wrong. We, unlike you, are dealing directly with the representatives of the European Commission, and we have a hard confirmation that the billions of euros are conditional on the approval of several standards, including this enforceable amended form of conflict of interest law. So we are dealing directly with Europe, we have confirmed it, and these tens of billions of crowns are at risk. In order to discuss the conflict of interest law that you are so afraid of, and which you are building today, I will say that the proposed form of conflict of interest is necessary to recognise the fulfilment of the 5 milestone of reform - control and audit. That's to prove your mistake. And what kind of money is that? It's 191 billion crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u63	Thank you. I will read an apology, today between 11.30 and 13.30 for reasons of work Mr. Ondřej Kolář apologizes. Mr Richard Brabec will now appear and prepare Mr Josef Kott. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stand up for Vice-President Richterová, because she is probably used to her extraordinarily large club performing like this and repeating something all the time, but there are those among us who need to say it twice - and we will understand it already. [[Fun in the hall.]] So there's no need to say the same thing ten times. But I think that--I had to say it-- but I think it's gonna cause the same reaction anyway, so it's just to keep from saying that we're not talking about it. And when you talked about Brussels, how you treated it, you sued the Czech Republic in the past period rather than acting in Brussels to call it the real names, because they were sometimes things that were definitely not in the interests of the Czech Republic, and I think that some of them can then be recalled, as your former senator or perhaps still existing. [[Applause on the left side of the hall.]] There. But I'd like to now, because I'm running out of time... Oh, it's not, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u65	You're right, I forgot to turn on the clock, anyway, Mr. Ambassador, think of it as a bonus and please give me a point and just pay attention to that point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u66	I will be economical, yes, thank you, Mr President, I will do exactly as you like, and I will save the minute, or all of us. This point is, of course, related to the current situation and I believe that it is a matter that is very interested in hundreds of thousands of households in this country and is closely related to what is happening, of course, in the energy market, and is based on the huge energy crisis that we are experiencing as a result of the war in Ukraine. And the subject is a subject that I would normally open yesterday at interpelations, but since, as has already been said several times, we have been denied, I have to open it now. And this topic relates to the continuation of the housing subsidy because, as you have been informed, it has been decided that gas boilers will not continue to be supported, domestic gas boilers because, as you know, it was our project, which we launched in 2015 during our reign - it has been replaced, and I consider it a great success, more than 100,000 boilers in households, the most polluting boilers, and to save people both money and, of course, improve the environment. But now there are fundamental changes in the system, and I am convinced that people are very interested in how the system will actually continue, because now hundreds of thousands of people are being thrown into uncertainty here, and I am convinced that they would very much like to hear how the government will continue to support this system. Let us remember that here still in the Czech Republic is roughly an estimate, an expert estimate of 250,000 of the most polluting boilers of the first and second emission classes. The government has decided and it has been - and I believe that a lot precisely - on the basis of the proposal given by the YES movement to extend the operation of these boilers by two years, i.e. to postpone the ban on these boilers by two years to 2024, specifically on September. And I'm convinced it's a good move, if he walks through here because the novel is coming to the House, we'll talk about it. But it wasn't exactly the B, that is, if we extend these boilers, we stop subsidizing natural gas boilers, and they form an important part of the boiler subsidies, so the government only said through the mouth of Secretary Hubáčková that she wanted to support the heat pumps more. But I am convinced that there are other sources of heating, such as biomass boilers, whether wood or wood pellets, which would also deserve much more support. And it's a subject that - I say again - is closely related to the current situation, it's something that interests hundreds of thousands of people, and that's why I think it's important to talk about it here. Let me just remind you that the ban on first- and second-class boilers is ten years old, is still under ODS rule. I think it was a surprise that the ban had passed at all, but I'm convinced it was a good move back then. As part of Babišův's government, we added it to the subsidy programme, which significantly improved and I would say in a revolutionary way changed the heating of Czech households and thus significantly improved the air quality, which is really even measurable, the last few years when the program started. So I'm convinced that this kind of information should fall here, that people are more interested in people than the many floscule we've heard here today from the coalition, and that we're babbling around and saying some nonsense here. Therefore, I would like to propose as the first item in today's meeting the Information of the Government or, as the case may be, the Minister Hubáčková on the continuation of the subsidy programme for heating Czech households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u67	Thank you, and now with the priority right of President Schillerová, Vice-President Richterová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would have responded to Vice President Olga Richterová. I don't know, I guess she meant her colleagues acting - through you - in Brussels. I will again specify this and quote from the official analysis of the Ministry of Justice the definition of the concept of the real owner, the registration of the real owners according to the Czech legislation compared to the requirements of the AML Directive. It is a relatively long material, and I will quote here: "The material represents the output, which meets the requirement to carry out the evaluation set out in the Annex to the National Recovery Plan approved, namely the requirement with anti-corruption components 4.3, reform 5, milestone 212. This means, the Ministry of Justice, this Ministry of Justice, has prepared an analysis of where this reform is referred to, and it is reform number 5 and it concerns the law, the condition is bound to the law on registering the beneficial owners. To clarify, the National Recovery Plan is indeed 180 to 190 billion at a specific rate, and this is its basic condition. Otherwise, the Pirate Party has a government minister for the Government Legislative Council, so I'm sure it will explain it to you through the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u69	Thank you. Now, Vice-President Olga Richterová with priority rights, Mr Josef Kott will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only here repeatedly because, of course, when the recipient understands the message, there is no need to repeat it, but if he does not understand, I must respond. I will stress once again that this is a draw of 191 billion crowns for the Czech Republic from the National Recovery Plan. I quote from the Director-General of the European Commission Working Group on Support for Resurrection and Resistance, that the Czech Republic was also almost at risk of non-approval of the NPO due to the lack of legislation. We actually need to have the standard adopted before the first payment, so we can even get the money. So what's going on is that we have a date, we need to approve it, and you're building it here, and there's a few of those standards that we're supposed to have approved - I know that there are a few - but I'm stressing, the amendment to the conflict of interest law, and we have confirmed that, too, is between what we absolutely need to approve. Brussels and I are dealing directly, and we are aware that if you build it today, we will push through, it will only cost taxpayers more to operate the House, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u71	Thank you. Mr Josef Kott will now appear, and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, I would also like to thank my fellow Vice-President for explaining to me again what I think I have already understood, but thank you once again for that. Since we didn't have the opportunity to interpel yesterday and I had a question prepared for the Minister of Agriculture in the framework of oral interventions, and even though he would have apologized, I would have received a written reply. Given my insistence on answers, I have taken the liberty of proposing a programme item called Information of the Minister of Agriculture on the balance of the Czech Republic's stocks in the field of cereals and the readiness to address the situation in the field of cereals and the increase in their prices. I have basically two reasons. One is widely known, the other is a letter that was sent to us on the agricultural committee yesterday, so I will try to focus briefly on this. In the field of plant commodities, we have seen a huge increase of up to 20 percent of the price in the last year. This increase was actually due to the fact that it started asking for raw materials from the outside, and the last reason, but the most important is the war in Ukraine and Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Given that Ukraine is an important exporter of commodities, mainly wheat, both in the Middle East and in North Africa and exports is basically up to 15 million tonnes of wheat, which is essentially twice as much as the Czech Republic produces all cereals, of course there is a problem. This problem also arises because, in essence, even in Ukraine, the livestock that ended up on the counters in the European Union behaved. Before the invasion, basically the price of food wheat was somewhere between CZK 6,000 and CZK 7,000 per tonne. After the outbreak of the war, the price basically increased twice, and today it is no problem to sell wheat for up to 12,000. In view of this, the situation is a very serious and consequent shortage of cereals and the rise in food prices can, in my view, be a social and social problem. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of The miller's community is saying that they are likely to miss some grain to grind flour - they are talking about up to one month - so I do not think that the inclusion of this point of mine is completely out of the question, and I assume that we should talk about it and that we should take certain measures. Now I would like to quote briefly from the letter sent yesterday by the Czech Moravian Breeding Association, and writes: "On behalf of members of the Czech Moravian Breeding and Seminar Association, we would like to assure agricultural entrepreneurs and the public that there are enough seeds of basic cereals, legume and basic vegetables to ensure the food self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, there is another situation in the area of securing maize seed, sunflower seed, rape, soya and beet seed, as well as seed potatoes, where the Czech Republic is partly or almost fully dependent on foreign imports. Here we do not know exactly whether there will be enough of these seeds for the Czech Republic." They also point out that they will do everything they can to ensure that the seeds do not end outside the region of the Czech Republic and that they will do everything possible and, after consulting the Ministry of Agriculture, ask for various support under the common agricultural policy so that we can basically keep it going and we can sow a new crop. Therefore, I would like to propose, if this point is to be included, as the second point of today's negotiations before the already fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is now duly signed up for the agenda for the meeting of Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u74	Lady Members of Parliament, my dear fellow Members, at this meeting, it must simply not remain clouded by your talk about what is going on, the fact that you are building the first of a set of laws against money laundering. It's anti-money laundering, the initiative our government is behind. We want this country to be as fair a place as possible to intervene as effectively as possible against money laundering. You are now blocking one of this set of laws, a law on conflict of interest, enforceable, truly functional. So let me just remind you, because you still haven't abandoned your obstructions that the ANO movement is building up a major anti-corruption law for the fair functioning of our country, including the political and business environment. There is a conflict of interest between the Chairman of the ANO movement. That's why you're bouncing. Let me just reiterate that in negotiations with the representatives of the European Commission, we were clearly told that the proposed form of the conflict of interest law as we were supposed to discuss it today, as it was on the agenda today, is necessary for us to receive the billions of crowns for the National Recovery Plan. We're doing this because it's the right thing to do, and we're going to push it in spite of your resistance, despite your rumors, despite the front lines. It's just obstruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u75	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek will now be prepared for the agenda of Mrs Zuzana Ožanová's meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not behind the conflict of interest law. I would like to say to the Vice-President - perhaps she could read it - because this is not a government proposal. Let me say this because I am the rapporteur for this press. [[11.20 hours]] If this were a government proposal, I would like to quote from this government's programming statement, perhaps the Vice-President did not read it: "The legal proposals needed to implement the programming declaration will be presented in a standard legislative way." Perhaps it would be good to read, for example, the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition, which was on this parliamentary bill. So this bill is parliamentary, it is not submitted by the government, so please do not mysticize people that it is a government-supported proposal. If the government really wanted it, that proposal as government could have gone, and the stupid things that were there could have been picked up. At today's meeting, I would like to place the first point before the already firmly placed point called The lack of justification for building bike paths near other roads due to the care of a proper economic operator. The municipalities spend very high funds to build bike paths because of greater safety for all road users, both motorists and pedestrians. Some of you may remember my saying from the past period. Back when I was discussing bicycle inserts into the Road Traffic Act, I said that when someone's stupid, it doesn't matter what they drive. They were all just interested in the poor cyclists on the way. No one was concerned about how pedestrians on the sidewalk that threaten bikers or scooters who are not allowed to ride the sidewalk, and yet often do so. Instead of solving the complex issue, most colleagues were convinced of two fundamental changes to the Road Traffic Act. The first, most discussed change is the minimum distance of the motor vehicle from the overtaken cyclist. Please note that this is really only a lateral distance between the motor vehicle and the bicycle. The fact that another cyclist traveling at a considerable speed can knock down another cyclist may not have been thought by the authors at all. And I don't think it's necessary to set any distance when you're circling a pedestrian, so you can knock down a pedestrian. No one wanted to hear about the possible introduction of the duty of the most protective cyclist, namely the obligation to wear a helmet while driving even for cyclists over 18 years of age. However, today I am more interested in the more neglected change that was in the same amendment. The most important thing in this case is a word unless. I quote the provisions of § 57 para. 1 Road Traffic Act: "If a lane is established for cyclists, a reserved lane for cyclists, a cycling path or a lane for cyclists is established at a crossroads with controlled traffic and a defined space for cyclists, the cyclist is obliged to use them in a given place and direction unless this would endanger the safety or continuity of road traffic.' Very interesting arguments by the petitioners that the aggressive behaviour of some motorists towards cyclists often stems from the supposed obligation of cyclists to use a cycle path that is wrongly imported from the unfortunate wording of the implementing decree. I would like to say that this was not imported from the decree, this was the law and the petitioners clearly did not read it. I'm sorry, because a couple of pedestrians are breaking the rules of traffic on the roads, and instead of walking down the sidewalk, the cyclist just suddenly says, "Yes, I can go on the road, so I'm going - you know what happened? I'm going to Bohumín on the way to the hospital, where there's enough cars, next to the sidewalk, the bike path, empty, and the cyclist - guess where he's going - is on the way. So unless he had to drive off the bike trail a few miles before. There's such crazy traffic that one or two walkers per hour limited it and he had to drive on the way. Why, then, do municipalities put money into building bike paths when they are not needed? Why build bike paths? Dear friends, I suggest you consider going back to common sense and say that not a word unless it's in the law, but just if there's a bike path, let the cyclist be on it. Or we could also say that a motor vehicle driver might say it's dangerous for him to drive along the road, so why can't he drive on the sidewalk? That's exactly the same logic. [[Your time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u77	Thank you. Before I give another word, just for the record, I say that if a Member or a Member is on the agenda, it is intended to justify the inclusion of a point, not as a response to the previous speaker. Now, Vice-President Olga Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish that it had come to light to my colleagues from the ANO movement that it was CZK 191 billion, where the CEO of the relevant working group, Mrs Céline Gauer, reminded us that they had actually approved the National Recovery Plan only because - and now I quote - a clear commitment was made that, for example, the conflict of interest would be resolved before the first request for payment. So we were supposed to discuss the law that we and others - I have already said that it is a whole set of laws against money laundering and anti-corruption laws - which our government must now discuss quickly in order to get the money. And since the European Union and the European Commission are watching where the 191 billion crowns are going, they are guarding this European taxpayers' money - that is our money, and it is in our interest that they are guarding it this way, it is correct - so they gave us concrete instructions on how to do it, and now I quote from the current annex to the Council's implementing decision on approving the assessment of the plan for recovery and resilience of the Czech Republic. This is directly related to our country, and in the reform number 5, which is called Control and Audit, it is clearly stated that this reform includes several measures to protect the financial interests of the Union, i.e. to ensure that the conditions in the country where the money goes are well set, and, in particular, firstly, to improve the national control system in order to prevent situations of conflict of interest, to expose and correct them. Then there are three more necessary parts of that set of laws against money laundering and anti-corruption laws, ensuring a level playing field in all the spheres of our country. And now the essential - the reform is to be completed by 30 June of this year, 30 June 2022, and all these milestones - I have not read all of them - must be fulfilled before the first request for payment is submitted to the Commission. My colleague Lucie Potůčková from STAN, exactly 191 billion, is doing this very closely, and the first payment should be about EUR 1 billion. I would like to draw attention to this as to how serious the subject is, which you are building, which you are blocking, and the conflict of interest law, which we as pirát and we as the entire government, which is anti-corruption and advocates the rule of law and a fair legal environment, so we care so much about it that you will not stop us today by your expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u79	Thank you. I'm now registering two priority rights that are logged in. The first is President Michálek, then President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today at 9 o'clock to discuss the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. We have 11.30 hours, and we haven't approved the agenda until now. [[A voice from the diaper: Don't stall!]] How can a company operate effectively like this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u81	Please don't shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u82	Thank you for the ANO colleagues applauding me, finally some support. But we've been here for five hours today, and we've been discussing the agenda for two and a half hours, so that's clearly obstruction. Remember what you promised the voters. That's what you promised the voters: here's the picture of Mr. Andrej Babiš, with such a nasty look on his face, holding a suit that has a smiley face for his head and saying blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. [[He's showing his cell phone.]] There's a big sign, work and don't blather. Today, we've had more than half or half of our time mumbling about what we're dealing with today, a conflict of interest, a colossal conflict of interest, and instead, you're basically defending your boss's interests here by putting forward amendments that you know aren't going to be able to discuss today, and certainly not to that extent. So, please, it would be ideal if Andrej Babiš came here as a savior, came here to sit here in the Chamber of Deputies, and did exactly what he promised the voters, so he caught these babbling policies in blocks with his head instead of a smiley face, picked them up, saved them, and we finally started discussing why we met here today. Let's work for the citizens, let's act on the agenda, and please stop building the agenda for a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u83	President Alena Schillerová will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So let's talk about why this novel is coming. When the original Lex Babiš was accepted here in 2016, which was supposed to get Andrej Babiš out of politics, it wasn't secret after all, so the authors didn't think about it at that time, they poured out the baby and the obligation to publish their property completely began to apply to the mayors of the smallest villages, which they didn't realize. And I'm talking about the original law. This part was then cancelled by the Constitutional Court and was our member for the ANO movement, a colleague of Sadovský, who prepared the amendment so that citizens could look into the register you are talking about. The Pirate Member, Mr Michálek, who, as I said today, is obsessed with Andrej Babiš, has prepared an amendment that is once again directed only at Andrej Babiš. So it's not about defending Andrej Babiš, it's about defending the entire legal system, because it's not possible to make laws against one person. Next time, you'll dislike another person, so you'll prepare proposals against him? Moreover, it disqualifies successful people from the political business environment in the future. They just won't want to get involved in public affairs. We've cut the politicians off, and what group are the pirát coming up with next? With the doctors? They are also constantly in conflict of interest when they deal with their plans, investments in health care, and so on. Or with teachers, with lawyers? We can gradually cut one group at a time, and in the end there will be only pirát who have done nothing but politics in their lives. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] I feel that the pirát, but partly the entire government coalition, have not yet accepted that they are no longer in opposition. They should take on their government responsibility and start solving people's problems and not just solve Andrej Babiš. The law itself has a lot of nonsense in it, for example, does not apply to online media. This means that a person who owns a cooking magazine or a sports TV channel can't go into politics, but the owner of the largest Internet news portal can, which makes no sense. We have prepared our own proposal, which solves what needs to be dealt with. I'm talking about the accessibility of the registry, which we all agree on, hopefully, and he could pass quickly. We welcome him. I would like to say that this is not about obstruction of the law itself or of the two laws that are now included, because we do not exclude them in the future, but it is about abolished interpelation. We are talking today about the cancelled interpellation that the coalition cancelled on Wednesday by voting to cancel the meeting by Friday. That's never happened before! The interpelations were never canceled by interrupting the meeting! If in the past period they were not, it was after the previous agreement with the opposition. Indeed, you will not find any such vote. I consulted with my colleagues. In all the time, I repeat, over the whole hundred days of this government, oral interpelations were only three times. And once again, interpelations are one of the basic tools of the government that we can control and ask the government and are guaranteed by the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, which I said in the morning in my opening speech. We had to get back to you because this can't happen, and we had to ask you these questions, even through the proposed new points. And I would also like to add to the argument of the pirate Members that billions of the National Recovery Plan are threatened by this. At first I thought, I also politely pointed out that Vice-President Richterová - through you, Mr Vice-President, are you still there? - she just mistook two laws... [[President: I am not speaking to you, continue.]] ... I'm sorry, thank you - she misjudged two laws. But then I realized he wasn't deliberately telling the truth. I'm being polite, using: She's not telling the truth. The National Recovery Plan is bound and it is, once again, one of the milestones that are mentioned there, to the Act on Recording of Real Owners, not to the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. That's two different laws, please. And I believe you have more faith in your Ministry of Justice, which has issued a methodology for this, which I have just mentioned, from which I quoted a moment ago, than any debate - I don't know, you say, you refer directly to some kind of speech. I don't know who you were talking to, you didn't name any particular Brussels officials, but the methodology of the Ministry of Justice, the analysis must be based on European regulations and these very various negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u85	Thank you, too. I am registering Mr Michálek's priority right, Mr President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, by your means, Mr Vice-President, I am addressing the previous speaker, Dr Schillerová. Doctor, please take a look at the document that summarises the milestones that the Czech Republic is obliged to implement. Take a look at milestone 214 and read there that there is not only AML legislation, but at the same time there is an obligation to bring internal control system into line to prevent, detect and correct situations of conflict of interest with Art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. So what my colleague Richterová, Potůčková and so forth said is correct and so it corresponds to the documents we have with the European Union. It's not the same law, you're not entirely clear about it. But you quoted some agreements here, but you weren't in charge of the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term, nor were you the president of the club. But we know it, we know what was done there, how it went. Yes, President Vondráček spoke to us, that was correct, but he also represented the majority that you had with the Communist Party and sometimes with the SPD, with the Social Democrats, so it really didn't go that way. I'll just wait, maybe, until the Chairman can attend the meeting. [[Mrs Schiller is speaking to Mrs Dostálová on the stand.]] What I think is absolutely essential, please don't insult my colleagues here that they never worked! Like Mr. Bartoš, the Vice Prime Minister, the computer science expert, or colleague Richterová, the translator. Do you think informatics, translators and lawyers aren't hardworking people? There are people who actually, yes, worked like normal people and were successful in the election, so what do you not like about it? They didn't have the advantage of working in a foreign trade business and sneaking money into Switzerland, which they shortened from socialist ownership. No, they really didn't go into life with that! But they're people who worked hard, so please don't insult them. And the law doesn't just apply to Mr. Babiš. On the contrary, this coalition is even tougher on itself! This law concerns one area of public procurement and government subsidies. So if anyone hasn't recovered from being in opposition or coalition, then maybe it's your opposition because you don't have any members of the government anymore. Those provisions relating to government members so that they cannot take over companies where the real owners, contracts and subsidies are concerned with this government, that new government where Andrej Babiš no longer sits. So it's not true that the law is against Andrej Babiš. The law is the same as when we were in opposition. And we care about the principles so that top politicians can't be accused in this way that they have some kind of scam that gets public money, taxpayers' money. So what we really want is for the public to have access to property confessions and for the gordic knot in which economic interests, political interests and the media are combined. This has to end. [[11.40 hours]] And at the moment you say that someone will not be able to publish a garden magazine: please, the law expressly has an exception that applies only to large media houses, that is, the gardening magazine will not fall at all unless the gardening magazine happens to have a turnover of several hundred million crowns. And I don't know how many garden magazines there are. Let us remember when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš referred to the law of gardening here in the House. That was exactly the moment when we weren't supposed to deal with the law of gardening, but when we were going to do a much more important thing, we were going to deal with covid, so it's really just fog. It is an effort to turn attention to the matter to be addressed, and the matter to be dealt with right now is an amendment to the conflict of interest law, so please end the obstructions, let us stop wasting the time of this Chamber of Deputies on futile proposals and let us devote ourselves to the programme that has been announced. Citizens expect us to work and discuss these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u87	Thank you. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek is now on the agenda for the meeting. I'm asking, is he around here somewhere? I do not see, in that case, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr. One Minister, I would like to put on the agenda for today's meeting. Information to the government on the impact of fuel prices on the integrated rescue system and the organisation that cares for the lives and health of the population. We've already discussed fuel prices and their growth here. I am glad that the government has already understood that it is not enough just to monitor margins, and at least from 1. 6. reduced the excise duty. Maybe we'll see, as I've heard in the media, and we'll see about the price ceiling, but I'd get ahead of myself. VAT will probably not be cancelled. It's okay, they're kind of holding on to the prices of goods and services. What happens next, we'll be surprised. In this context, we have also noted the statement made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the TOP 09 by Markéta Pekarová Adamová, and I quote: "Governments are not supposed to care about people, governments are supposed to make sure that it is safe here. Safety is the first assumption that we will ever succeed." End of quote. I don't agree, but so be it. Again, in the context of this quote, I would like to ask for my point, because, according to the President's statement, it is the government's concern that fuel prices are significantly reflected in services, which we have all recorded and recorded in particular by our citizens. We have noticed a price increase in basically everywhere producers and entrepreneurs can do it, and if they want to continue their activities, they have to do it. Food, services, building materials got expensive, and we all pay for it, because we all have to eat. Today, I would like to focus on the impact of rising prices on the functioning of the integrated rescue system, or organisations that take care of the safety, life and health of citizens, and which cannot raise the prices of their services, even if their costs increase significantly. I would like to know whether the government has at least a partial estimate or statistics on how much the costs of fuel will be spent by the Police of the Czech Republic, firefighters or medical rescue services, i.e. organizations that take care of the safety, lives and health of all of us. In the case of police or firefighters, increased costs will be paid by the state, in the case of medical rescue services or some hospitals will have to compensate the regions, in the city police it will be cities, in the care services of the region and the city and I could continue this way. So I would very much like to know the statistics on the impact on state-based organisations, regions or municipalities, on the impact it will have on the functioning of organisations that care for the safety and lives of all of us, whether it will cost the regions or municipalities, for example, in some way compensate for these increased costs, or whether they will essentially pay for it themselves by somehow compensating them with increased fuel costs, which they have really high consumption for the sake of security of all of us, but not giving them subsidies for modernization or anything else. I'm very interested. I'd hate to see the paramedics or firefighters come to people in need on bicycles, as they were supposed to in various April rescue posts on their Facebook pages. I'd like to show you a picture of the paramedics from the Highlands. [[The Member shall show the relevant material.]] But as I'm saying, on April April, these pictures were on all the rescue services. That's my contribution. And then, through Mr President, to Mrs Richterová. Madame, you are obsessing, because if you had not repeated the same ten times, ten members of the opposition could have already resigned. And one of my personal points. I'm already trying to get under that camera because when you're reprimanding someone and talking to members of the YES movement, look at us, not the citizens on that camera. It's so uncomfortable. And I will not be able to make it to the honourable Member until further questioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u89	Thank you for respecting the time, Madame. Given that we have agreed with the chair of the ANO parliamentary club on further progress towards today's meeting, so that we can unite in the process and be in agreement, I will now interrupt the meeting for ten minutes to 11.55, I will ask that we meet as the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies meets and agree on a further procedure as we proceed today by the end of the day. Thank you and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going back to discussing the agenda of the meeting as we have done before. We are also returning after a meeting of the House's leadership with the presidents of the MPs, where we agreed on a further procedure. I therefore now ask the President of the ANO parliamentary club for a speech because she is reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since this morning, almost 9:00 p.m., we've been having a debate here. We are blamed as an YES movement from obstructions, while we are only resisting the fact that we have not been allowed to and are not allowed to repeatedly engage in oral interpelations on really hot topics. And actually, I'm thinking when I'm watching the frequency of Members speaking for the Pirate Party, who's actually obsessing about what's going on here. And since the debate has graduated where it has graduated, we need to consult all the members of the ANO club in this regard whether we will not defend ourselves in the Constitutional Court, if necessary, by denying us our constitutional right. So I'm asking for a two-hour break for an ANO meeting of the members of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u92	Before I call for a break, I propose the following procedure. Madam President, since there are a number of applications and they would not be settled before I give you a break, I propose the following procedure. There would also be a dangerous precedent for the future that we would eventually end the meeting without settling the applications for the debate, whether it is on the agenda or on a point. I ask you, therefore, whether, on the basis of the club agreement, we will proceed in the following way, whether Members who are on the agenda withdraw their applications for the agenda? In the event that this is true and so it is, we would then deal with those items on the agenda that are read and, if we vote them off, it is possible to disable the items from the agenda of the meeting and announce a break for the club meeting. First I ask you whether those who are logged on to the agenda, as you were having fun, are currently downloading their applications for the agenda? [[President Schiller reporting.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. On the basis of a preliminary agreement at the level of club presidents and after a quick consultation with fellow members of the ANO movement, I say on their behalf, on behalf of everyone and, of course, on behalf of myself, of all those who have spoken and have read the actual points that need to be dealt with as we withdraw them from the agenda, I withdraw them on their behalf and on my own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u94	Thank you. In that case, I will only vote on those points that have been read up to this time. The President of Michálek shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u95	Thank you for the floor. On the basis of the agreement, which was on grémium and also between coalition clubs, on behalf of all coalition clubs, I apply the veto to new points, which were designed under § 54 para. 6. At the same time, I don't think it's entirely right to take a break two hours before the end of the meeting, go home this early and not work it out. Unfortunately, that's how the YES movement wants it, so this is his responsibility. I think they could've done that meeting of their MP yesterday afternoon, when they had all day off to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-08-ps2021-016-07-000-000.u96	I shall therefore proceed according to the following proposal. Points that are newly included in the programme have been vetoed. That is why we have three points left to read and concern the points already included in the agenda for this meeting. [[12.00 hours]] I'll ask those of you who have read the points to provide me with assistance so that we can be in harmony. It's about three points. One was read by Mr Marek Novák, concerning the Civil Code, another item was read by Mr Josef Bělica, which relates to paragraph 17, and then Pavel Růžička, House Press 182. I assume you've all been reading new points that have been vetoed. Thank you. I will therefore now begin the vote on the agenda. First, I will vote on the inclusion of House press 66 and put this item on the second item of today's negotiations. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 139, registered is 161 Members, for proposal 37, against 84. [[from board 160]] This proposal has not been adopted. Now, Mr Josef Bělica's proposal, House Press 131, as the first item on today's day. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 140, 164 Members and Members registered, for 59, against 86. This proposal was not accepted either. And now, Mr Růžička's proposal - and this is the Parliamentary Press 182, for it to be the first item in today's negotiations. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 141, 164 Members and Members registered, for 57, against 91. This proposal has not been adopted. Given that, in the case of a two-hour break, we would have exceeded 14 hours, I will now vote on the elimination of all points in this meeting after agreement with the President of the Members' Clubs. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of removing all the remaining points of this meeting from the agenda? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 142, 163 Members, for proposal 146, against 1. [[from the board 162]] This proposal was adopted. Since we have eliminated all remaining items from the agenda and are following up on the ANO meeting, I am ending the 16th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and wish you a quiet rest of the day and a nice weekend. Thank you, goodbye.
