ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 25th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations: Pekarová Adamová Markéta from 10 to 11.30 - working grounds, Bartošek Jan whole day - working reasons, Bauer Jan whole day - working reasons, Bělice Josef whole day - working reasons, Bělohlávková Romana from 14 o'clock - working reasons, Belor Roman from 13.30 to 14.30 - working reasons, Bendl Petr whole day - working reasons, Brázdil Milan whole day - working reasons, Burešš Full Vrána Jermanová - full Zdenka Jílková - full Marie day - Foldyna Kohoutek Tomáš - full Jiří Quittová - Petra Ondřej Petr - full Jiří day - full Fischerová Romana - Šimon working day - full Wenzl Milan - full Nacher Patrik - full Dvořák Jaroslav - full Jiří day - full Marie day - Radim Oulehlová Renata - full Ivo day - full Svoboda Bohuslav - full working day - Kettner Šimek David, Ženíšek of the case, Marek of the case, reasons of the case, reasons for the case, Jaroslava Kubíček the Roman, reasons for the case, reasons for the case, Staněk for the case, Pavel for the case, reasons for the case, Major for the case, reasons for the case, reasons for the case, Němečková for the case, Crkvenjaš for the case, reasons for the case, reasons for the case, reasons for the case, Opltová for the case, Michaela for the case, Pokorná for the case, reasons for the case, Ladislav for the case, reasons for the Havlíček, Vaňková for the case, Pavla for the case, Kasal for the case, Navrátil for the case, reasons for the case, reasons for the case of the case, reasons for the case, reasons for the case, Josef for the case, Karel of the case, reasons of the case of the case, Tureček of the case of the case, reasons of the case, Volný of the case, Vondrák of the case, reasons of the case, Jan of the case of the case of the case, reasons of the case, reasons of the case, Fiala of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, Kott of the case, reasons of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, reasons of the case of the case, reasons of the case, reasons of the case, Pražák, David of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, Lochman of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, reasons of the case, Špičák of the case, Julius of the case, reasons of the case-law, Jana of the case of the case of the case, reasons of the case, Pastuchová of the case of the case, reasons of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, cases, cases, reasons of the case, reasons of the case-law of the case-law of the case-law of the case-law of the case-law of the case- Furthermore, from today's meeting from 10 to 14.30, Mr Andrej Babiš apologizes for working reasons. The following ministers apologize from the members of the government: Fiala Petr in the morning meeting - working reasons, Bartoš Ivan the whole day - working reasons, Baxa Martin up to 13 and from 17:00 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš the whole day - working reasons, Černochová Jana the whole day - working reasons, Gazdík Petr until 12.30 - working reasons, Jurečka Marian the whole day - foreign trip, Langšádlová Helena within 12 hours - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk the whole day - medical reasons, Austrian Vít up to 13 and from 18 - working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk the whole day - foreign trip, Šalomoun Michal the whole day - working reasons. So many apologies. And today's meeting should begin by discussing points from the Law block - first reading, according to the order approved on Tuesday. At 2:30, we'd be dealing with paragraph 143, which is oral questioning. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest, and they will then be drawn. At 6:00 p.m., after the oral questioning, we would continue to discuss further points according to the approved programme on the basis of the agreement from the Gremia. And now I'm asking if anyone has a proposal to amend the approved agenda for the 25th meeting. Yes, I saw, Madame Schillerová, then, yes... So the President prefers President Benda and then the President and then President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two suggestions. The first is that we include a new item in the agenda for this meeting, namely the House Press 235, an amendment to the Act on State Social Support, which we did here yesterday afternoon at second reading. If this proposal goes through and the item will be included, I would ask that we then vote that it be placed firmly for today at 18 o'clock. This is a matter that may be arranged across the political spectrum. And the second proposal, which I would like to have today at 11:30, after we discuss the points that we have at first reading, so that today at 11:30, we continue with the treaties at second reading, that is, points from number 80 further, to move a little further with the program, and at the time that part of the House's leadership will not be here, because the President of the European Parliament and the chief factions are here, so that we can deal with the treaties. So point 80 and above - contracts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[There's noise in the room.]] Colleagues, colleagues, I would ask for peace of mind, because I cannot hear what the speaker is proposing. Once again, I urge you to calm down, please. Thank you for understanding. President Alena Schillerová will speak with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. In view of the events that took place yesterday in all the media, and I consider them very serious and very acute, please include them in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as the first item; If not approved, tomorrow's meeting will be the first item called Razie at the City Hall of Prague. Let me briefly justify this point. [[10.10 hours]] As you all know, yesterday there was a major raid by the National Headquarters against organized crime in Prague by 11 people, including Deputy Mayor Hlubuček of STAN. It is all the more fundamental that they are talking about organized groups, bribes and other serious crimes in their context. A number of government Members and Ministers, as I noted yesterday in the media, tends to downplay this case with the fact that it is a local mess that has no ties to the government. However, the club of the ANO movement cannot agree with that. It is a case of prominent members of the STAN movement, which is being investigated by the police, and the head of the Ministry of the Interior, as we know, is Vít Rakušan, who is also chairman of the STAN movement. For several weeks we have been drawing attention to suspicious personnel changes at the Ministry of the Interior, pointing out the unusual speed with which the Minister of the Interior is pushing to reorganize the police. These concerns are also due to the fact that this is not the first STAN problem during the time it is in the government. I'm not even talking about the previous cases, just in a hurry and I'm not going to say all of them - the unclear funding of STAN from Cypriot companies, the confusion in the origin of the vice-president's assets and the candidate for Minister Polčák, the money from public budgets for enforcing the laws in the House, by chance the forgotten firm of Minister Gazdík, Honzíkův's way, as is now called fraud on voters from Jan Farský, the suspicious appeal of the police president Mr. Švejdar, the corruption case of Governor Půta, and now these Hlubuček's apartments and the following case from yesterday. And most of it is addressed by the police, run by the chair of a political party that tolerates these practices. Given that the Prime Minister, as I noted yesterday in the media, refuses to deal with this case, even though it is suspected that STAN wanted this resort to cover up these practices, and there were speculations yesterday, indications - I am not saying that this was confirmed somehow - that perhaps this case also affects the Minister of Education, Petr Gazdík, I request that this point be included and that I hear the comments of an important member of the government, preferably the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u5	Thank you. President Okamura will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the police took one of the highest politicians in the government movement STAN, Petr Hlubuček, who is Deputy Mayor of Prague. And I think that, after the endless scandals of the government movement STAN - the second largest party in the government - it is necessary to discuss this matter in the Chamber of Deputies, because the police, according to public information, have Petr Gazdík on behalf of the STAN. Police and prosecutors have already accused Hlubuček in connection with extensive corruption. It is obvious that the incompetent mayor of the pirát does not drive the Prague City Hall at all when millions are apparently stolen in broad daylight. Government political-business project STAN Minister Vít Rakušan, who, in my opinion, is more of a mafia, has another huge scandal - Polčák, Farský, Michalik, Rakušan, Gazdík, Hlubuček, complete leadership of the second largest government party. No other political party has had so many scandals in six months. And Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS keeps his coalition partner silent, puts his head in the sand, and tolerates these matters. The hand washes the hand. In my opinion and in the opinion of the SPD movement, Vít Rakušan should not be the Minister of the Interior at all in this situation, since according to public information, the raid also revolves around the entrepreneur Michal Redl, who was in the past close to the known criminal Radovan Krejčíř and today has ties to the government movement STAN. So that's another reason. In our view, the STAN movement should not be in government at all. I think it is appropriate, and I wanted to ask you to put a point called Razie at the Prague City Council as the first point today, and if it is not approved, so as the first point tomorrow on the House of Deputies programme. At the same time, I wanted to say that both opposition parties will now collect signatures under an emergency meeting if you do not include it, so we will discuss the subject and the matter, as well as the government coalitions, because we will collect signatures under an emergency meeting, so we will discuss it anyway. From this point of view, it would certainly be better, from your point of view, not to delay this and to discuss this subject here, while the resolution proposed by the SPD is white, I have already suggested it here, and that is a) that the Minister of the Rakušan should not be the Minister of the Interior, because how can someone be the Minister of the Interior when his senior fellow party is being investigated by police, who is, of course, in the spirit of the Minister of the Interior, so it is necessary to discuss this here in our opinion. As for Petr Hlubuček for the STAN movement, who is Deputy Mayor of Prague and Chairman of the Prague organization of the STAN movement, Hlubuček has acquired several apartments in Spain for less than 30 million crowns during his political function since 2019. HoweverHlubuček the STAN Hluček refuses to publish property returns and fogs about the uncertainties surrounding the purchase of flats he acquired at the time he worked or worked at Prague City Hall. Here I would like to point out that, in my opinion, the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan knows very well who Petr Hlubuček is. And I think that on this case we will definitely - I am convinced of it - hear more and more names and more and more information. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan knows him very well, they know each other, and yet this person is supposed to be and is third in place of STAN's candidate for Prague Magistrate. This means that this person has the full support of the STAN movement and notice that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan always pretends to deal with it when he comes to something publicly. At the same time, we all know long ago that it should be Věslav Michalik's case, Stanislav Polčák's case, that the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan knew all about it in advance. He knows everything in advance, and he's always waiting for this mob project called the STAN movement to come out, and then it's like something's coming together like something's going on. I miss the chairman of the Cogan House of Deputies here. Why isn't he talking? Why isn't he talking to the microphone? You were such a talker here a few months ago, and somehow you slipped away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u7	Through, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u8	Yes, through yours. From Nová Paka Mr. Cogan, Member of STAN, one of the highest politicians of the STAN movement in the Czech Republic. Mr. Cogan, Chairman of the STAN movement. He's been defending this place all along, defending that silence is consent. I mean, you were talking on the microphone a few months ago, you were talking about me, so talk here. Explain, distance yourself from these mafia practices, Mr Cogan of Nova Paka, Member and Chairman of the STAN. Since then, you've just been sitting, there's been a case of Polčák, Farský, Michalik, Gazdík, Hlubuček, another one. You've probably already given a speech on this topic or you haven't even gotten off on this subject. You've suddenly lost your mind. So, of course, it's still up to Mr. Hlubučka. Since 2010, Petr Hlubuček, a politician of the STAN movement, has been a politician of the STAN movement as well as a politician in the leadership of the City Hall of Prague - Lysolaje. One of the four apartments in Spain was acquired as a joint property with his husband Jiří Karvánek, who is also a member of STAN, who is a representative in Prague - Lysolajích. The apartments are owned in the luxurious resort of Torremolinos in the south of Spain, which liked various celebrities, such as singer John Lennon or painter Salvador Dalí as a holiday destination. [[10.20 hours]] The accusation of Hlubuček is related to the management of the Prague Capital Transport Company and there is suspicion of a huge corruption act because the Hlubuček of the STAN movement is in charge of the company. I just want to say, because when I wrote it somewhere, people told me it wasn't a husband, it was a colleague of his. But somehow they got married in Spain, and that's where marriage is. It would be a registered partnership with us. So no other political party has had so many scandals in six months. And I just want to ask, for example, because there's no Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, neither is Petr Gazdík, so yesterday we learned that the police are interested in him, so maybe he's dealing with it. But then there's the chairman of the STAN club, MP Cogan, so I'm gonna ask him. For example, you have not explained to the public to this day who the owners of companies in Cyprus's tax havens, which sponsored the STAN movement, and the pirát, by the way, are also an election campaign. The pirates have stopped asking the questions completely, we ask the questions all the time. So I would just like to remind you that the STAN movement is such, in my opinion, a political-trade project, because, for example, the affair of the then Vice-President STAN and MEP Polčák, who - after all, it is two months ago - asked for a commission of CZK 8 million for the enforcement of the law in the House. And as I said before, STAN received money from opaque donors from a tax haven in Cyprus, and another Vice-President of STAN Věslav Michalík, who died a few days ago, was involved. So we would like to ask you to include this item on the agenda. As I was saying, the proposal has been made here more than once, as the first point today, or if you don't approve, the first point tomorrow, and otherwise we will, both opposition parties, collect signatures under an emergency meeting to discuss it. And I say again, Prime Minister Petr Fiala's incredible approach. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] It's an incredible attitude because he's been sticking his head in the sand the whole time. The media protects him, the media protects the Prime Minister of the Fiala. No one is running after him with a camera to ask him what these recurring scandals actually say, what he thinks about it, whether he condemns it. And I think that Prime Minister Petr Fiala really should approach this so that the STAN will not be in the government, because this is no longer possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr President, and now with priority rights, please speak up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to ask for two points in the evening's opposition window. As the second point for the point proposed by Marek Benda, I would like to include point 38, House press 8, which is the national referendum law, because we are already one of the few countries that does not yet have this law, and we believe that people too must be able to decide on important matters, and, as the third point, point 67, House press 119, which is the law on the provision of benefits, which concerns increasing mobility for disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u11	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So I will just repeat the number of paragraph 38, House Press 8, the National referendum law as the second point of the opposition window for the point that President Benda places, and then the number of paragraph 67, the House press 119, the Bill of benefits, as the third point of the opposition window. Yes? [[Mr. Intervenal agrees.]] Thank you. Wait a minute, we'll hold. [[The President shall be accompanied by a replacement card.]] Yes, Mr Bělor votes with a replacement card 31. I have some more excuses to load now. From 9 to 13 o'clock, Minister Síkela apologizes for reasons of work, and then President Jakob apologizes between 12 and 18 o'clock for reasons of work; Minister Síkela also apologizes for reasons of work. Another apology is Mr Benešík's apology from today's meeting from 11.50 to 15.30 for work reasons and further apologizes to Minister Kupka today from 10 to 12 o'clock for work reasons. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] I still see an application with the priority right of President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u12	Madam Vice-President, all I have is an incentive. I don't see any member of the government anywhere, maybe not even -- even the MP here tells me he can't see either, through you, and he's coalition, so he wouldn't make it up -- so if you stop the negotiations? [[Here comes Secretary Hubáčková.]] Oh, we see. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u13	Yes, so we see one member of the government here, she's Madam Secretary. I would now ask my colleague if she could represent me in the management of the meeting, and I am claiming this with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we are in favour of approving the agenda of the meeting and the Vice-President of the House, Mrs Věra Kovářová, has now signed up with priority. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond here to the speech by President Schillerová and President Okamura. There have been some issues concerning the case in quotation marks. [[Laughter and applause from the right side of the Chamber.]] Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the previous issues were not a violation of the law. The STAN movement and representatives responded quickly and generally resigned from their duties. I will only recall Mr. Věslav Michalík's affairs, whom I would of course like to remember here with respect and love, because he left us this Sunday, which I am very sorry about. Mr. Věslav Michalík has never committed anything illegal, and at the moment the campaign against him was launched, he immediately gave up his candidacy for the post of Minister of Industry and Trade with the fact that he did not want to burden the emerging government with negative media attention. As far as Mr Jan Farský, Mr Jan Farskýý and we in the leadership of the STAN movement are concerned, we have made a mistake when we thought that it would be possible to combine the performance of the mandate with several months of scholarship stay in the US. Jan Farský acknowledged his mistake and passed his parliamentary mandate on the recommendation of the Bureau. Corporate donations have also been mentioned here. It is quite clear that STAN's corporate donations were verified by the Office for Control of the Management of Political Parties and the Movement and were found to be in order and in accordance with the law. STAN stated that he accepted donations exclusively from legal entities based in the Czech Republic and from Czech citizens, also on a transparent account from companies that have their IČO and pay taxes here, not, as has been said here many times, from some empty mailboxes. We also took immediate action. We returned the gifts discussed. First of all. [[10.30 hours]] Secondly, it has been stated and the measure has also been approved that we will not accept any donations from legal persons until the adoption of the amendment to the Act on the Management of Political Parties. I merely recall that other parties accept donations from companies that have part of their ownership structure abroad, including so-called tax havens. As regards the matter of Mr Polčák, Mr Polčák responded to the reservations about his progress in the Vrbětice case by resigning from all contracts, he did not accept any money and also gave up the post of Vice-President of the STAN movement. I would also like to remind you that the Chamber of Advocates stated that in his case there was certainly no breach of his activities with regard to the lawyer. I would also remind you that the Constitutional Court annulled the provision which meant that some damage from the Vrbětic area would not be able to claim compensation, and that was why Mr Polčák was involved in this case at the time. And to ask you, why him? Well, because he's from Zlinsk. There are mayors who trust him because they've known him for years and they know how much he's done for municipalities and cities, not just in his region. And now I would like to comment on Mr. Petr Hlubuček's case. We do not deny and we are aware that it has a completely different background than the previous cases. In short, it has a criminal issue, and I think we have immediately taken a firm and rapid stand in the STAN movement. The Bureau of the STAN movement suspended the membership of the STAN movement to Mr Petr Hlubučka and we invited him to give up all the functions in which the STAN movement represented, and Mr Petr Hlubuček did so, meaning that he gave up these functions. I must admit, of course, that this is a great disappointment to me personally, and I also consider it a betrayal, because it is not a systemic failure, but it is basically a betrayal of the person we have put our trust in. I mean, we're referred to in Andrej Babiš's quotes as a criminal organization. So, please, I must fundamentally reject this, because the STAN movement represents tens and hundreds of people who, in their capacity as mayors, deputy mayors and representatives, do services for people and do quality work. This is a matter to be talked about and completely refute the remarks made by Mr Andrej Babiš, who himself has, forgive me for saying so, butter on his head. In addition to the last speech by President Okamura, through the President, about the Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior and neither Minister Gazdík can be here because they are duly excused and have business meetings. The Minister of the Interior stated and also said that there is no reason for him to resign. He also strongly rejects statements to his address that would affect the police's progress. Minister Vít Rakušan clearly states that police procedures must not and cannot influence, and clear proof is that the police are taking action in the case of Mr Petr Hlubuček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I want to ask if anyone else is applying to change our program. Mr. Chairman Cogan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to a colleague who called on me here. I will repeat again that silence means disapproval in Czech law, silence does not mean consent. And don't let him repeat it over and over again, that if someone's quiet, they'll agree. This is simply not in the Czech legal system and it is a bit sad that you do not realize it. I have to say, if I've been invited here, and I'm not used to saying things all the time... I'm saying what's serious, not that I'm gonna be talking the same thing ten times. And I have to say, what I said the other day, you're the one that attacked me here that it was basically a one-time thing, but you didn't disprove one thing. None of the things I said were factually disproved. You just basically ended up being an appeal to my rhetorical abilities. Well, they're not as good as yours, but you didn't disprove either of them when it comes to a material case. And now we have a matter with one of our members, yes, it is a serious matter. It is a matter where one of the members - who is not part of this Chamber, is not one of us thirty Members who have put our trust in the government - so one of them was criminally accused. How did we act? How did we act as STAN? STAN immediately the day we learned the information, and we only learned it from the media, we have no other basis for the information than from the media as well as others, because we do not interfere with the activities of law enforcement authorities. STAN met immediately, the Bureau, and decided on a proposal to suspend membership. The competent authority has suspended the membership and, at the same time, we have called on the party member concerned to give up all the functions it has. He did so. And now there's ongoing criminal proceedings, which means law enforcement agencies can act, no one outside of them. Even our Home Secretary can't know anything else. Whether or not you were involved in the police's work, we don't do that, so we're just based on what's from the outside. Yet we responded to the principle of presumption of guilt. Now let's go crazy about who else has ever responded so quickly to cases like STAN, who solves - well, maybe there was a black sheep in our country if they identify themselves and criminal proceedings are ongoing, so it will have all the consequences. He no longer has any rights and obligations in relation to STAN. We made it preliminary, and we actually concluded a presumption of guilt from the perspective of the party. I think we've done our best in this matter. The matter, of course, concerns the Magistrate, such as other cases involving the City Council of Brno. They are simply failures that have an individual character and do not relate to our parliamentary club and our government. Even with this in mind, I would like to propose and veto the inclusion of new points at today's meeting on behalf of five parties to the coalition, that is to say, STAN, ODS, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u18	And, Prime Minister, I'm just going to ask, what are the points of the veto? These two, does that mean President Schillerová and President Okamura as regards the raid on the City Hall of Prague? Or other points?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u19	No, only the points that are newly included in the meeting, as it allows me to do. These two were the only two that weren't assigned like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u20	Thank you very much. Anyone else reporting for the agenda for our meeting? It's not so, so I'm gonna go ahead and deal with proposals to change the program. [[10.40 hours]] The first proposal is the inclusion of a new point, namely the House press 235. This is an amendment to the Act on State Social Support, second reading. Mr. Benda suggested it. First, we'll deal with the vote to include in the agenda of our meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's up for a new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 137 Members voted in favour of 130, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now it is proposed to have a fixed classification at 18 o'clock, so now we will vote on its fixed classification at 6 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's up for the 18 o'clock point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 153, 137 Members were voted in favour of 134, against no one. We put this point firmly at 18 o'clock. Another proposal by Mr Benda, the President of the ODS, was the firm inclusion of points 80 and above, i.e. contracts, for today at 11.30 hours. So we're going to vote the contracts at second reading, that is, points 80 and above, to get a tight seat at 11:30 tonight. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who is in favour of such a firm assignment? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 154, 137 Members were voted in favour of 136, against no one. The motion was accepted. The contracts, or their second reading, were included at 11.30 hours. Subsequently, there were proposals by President Schillerová and President Okamura, who were vetoed, or we will not vote on them. Finally, we have the proposals made by Mr Rozvoral. It's item number 33, national referendum law. The proposal was for this to be the second point of the opposition window, so this is the second point of the opposition window. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of point 38? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 155 vote, 137 Members were voted in favour, 65 voted in favour, against 11. The application was rejected. The next proposal by Mr Rozvoral concerns point 67. It is a social welfare law, and the colleague suggested that this be the third point of today's opposition window. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this being the third point of today's opposition window? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 156 vote, 136 Members were enrolled, in favour 62, against 3. The motion was denied. We have thus dealt with all the proposals for changing the program. I'd rather ask if I've forgotten anyone? I guess it doesn't look like it. Before we move on to the meeting schedule, to the individual press, now is the moment we agreed on yesterday's meeting adjournment to introduce you to the election results. I will therefore ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to inform us of the results of the secret elections held yesterday, which is on Wednesday, before the end of the meeting day. Let me just remind you that this was item 110, appointment of member of the Board of Auditors of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, and item 111, proposal for the election of member of the Council of the Czech Press Office. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-06-16-ps2021-025-07-000-000.u21	Thank you for the floor, good morning. I will follow up on Mr President in the sense that there were two more elections yesterday, but they were made by acclamation, publicly here in plenary, so their result is already recorded and published. That's why I'm really just reading the result of the election from nighttime.
