ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-001-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 261/2020 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with further electronization of procedures of public authorities, as amended by Act No. 270/2021 Coll. / House printing 130/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 So I'm opening this point. I will ask a representative of the government to come to the rapporteur's desk. Please note, it is the House press 130, we are in the first reading according to § 90 para. 2, and it is therefore proposed that we give our consent to the bill in this first reading. I received a letter to instruct Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development, Mr Ivan Bartoš, to justify this proposal. And I will therefore ask the Minister to take the floor under the authority of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-001-021.u2	Thank you for your word. Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the Government's bill amending Law No 1 on the amendment of the law. 261/2021 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with further electronization of the procedure of the public authority. The purpose of the draft law is to postpone the application of rules for the certification of electronic filing systems. These rules have become effective on 1 February 2022 and assume that from this date, or in the case of already existing entities, after the transitional period, public bodies will be obliged to perform the file service in electronic filing systems to which the certificate was granted. The certificate shall certify that the electronic file service system complies with the requirements of the legislation governing the performance of the file service. Rules on the certification of electronic filing systems have become part of the legal order on the basis of an amendment without having a broader discussion with relevant bodies and suppliers of electronic filing systems. These rules are considered to be a fundamental risk both from the point of view of the performance of the file service and the overall level of administration of documents in public administration, as well as from the point of view of possible litigation, or even arbitration. Event problems in the performance of the file service could cause major problems in the functionality of almost the entire public sector. It is therefore proposed to postpone the application of the rules on the certification of electronic file service systems, and the certification of electronic file service systems should be initiated as from 1 July 2023. The obligation to perform the file service exclusively in electronic form and exclusively in tested electronic filing systems would not apply until 1 January 2026. In order to ensure the urgency of the need to suspend the effectiveness of existing rules on the certification of electronic filing systems, as described above, it is proposed to approve the Government's bill at first reading. The effectiveness of this bill is proposed on the first day following the date of its publication. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-001-021.u3	Thank you, Minister, and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading to take the floor, this is Mr Robert Stržínek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-001-021.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, we have before us the House press number 130, namely the Government Bill amending Act No. 261/2020 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with further electronization of procedures of public authorities, as amended by Act No. 270/2021 Coll. The amendment on file service and archive is part of the so-called Depa, a package of modifications that changes a number of laws and allows further electronicisation of public administration. The Act on Archiving and File Service provides for an obligation to conduct an electronic file service for public bodies who did not previously have that obligation and conducted a file service in paper form or in an application which does not comply with the NESES, i.e. the National Standard for Electronic Document Service Systems. As the Minister has already said, we have a law to postpone the effectiveness of the rules on the certification of electronic filing systems to 1 July 2023. This is related to the proposed postponement of the effectiveness of the obligation of public bodies to perform the file service exclusively in the certified electronic system of the file service, namely on 1 January 2026. [[9.50 hours]] The aim is to remedy the legislative situation in which the so-called public authorities, i.e. the organisational units of the state, the security forces or the local authorities, have been brought into the so-called public authorities since 1 February. They cannot now be formally supplied with untested electronic filing systems in a situation where the tested systems are not really available. That's the most important thing from my point of view. In view of this situation, the effectiveness of the first day following the date of publication of the Law is therefore exceptionally proposed. I recommend that you give my consent at first reading, and thank you for your attention. Madam President, I would therefore like to propose that you subsequently open a general debate and vote on whether the House will continue its negotiations so that it can agree with the bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-03-02-ps2021-009-04-001-021.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, which I do not see any registered ones yet. I'll wait a little longer. Indeed, no one is entered into a general debate, so I am ending it again. I ask if there is an interest in the final words after the general debate? I just want to make sure that I don't see interest in the final words after the general debate. I will therefore resign because Members must be called to the Chamber. We will decide whether we will continue to discuss this proposal in accordance with § 90 para. 5. Yes, there's an interest in check-out, I'm signing you all out. Please log in again with your registration cards. [[Noise in the hall.]] We'll wait a little longer. We will decide on the continuation of this proposal pursuant to § 90 para. 5. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 130 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? In the vote number 113, 148 Members and Members were enrolled, for 148, against 0. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Let's continue. I am opening a detailed debate, which has not yet been applied for either. I'll give you more room if anyone wants in a detailed debate? I can't see, I'm ending a detailed debate. Once again, is there interest in the final words? Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur, therefore, means that we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I'm gonna reengage, but I think everyone's gonna be in the O.R. by now. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 261/2020 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with further electronization of procedures of public authorities, as amended by Act No. 270/2021 Coll., according to the House press 130." Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this resolution? Who's against it? The number 114 voted for 152 Members and Members, for 151, against 0. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. I can therefore conclude this item, thank the Minister and the rapporteur, and we will proceed to another point in our discussion today. Yes? Probably for the vote? No, it's not factual, it's not for the vote. Let's go to point number
