ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of COVID-19 disease and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court, published under No. 4/2022 Coll., Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the disease epidemic COVID-19 /house print 127/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. [[He's not present.]] I look around, I don't see the Minister. Only Minister Jurečka warns me that the Minister is not far from here. [[A Member of the Excellent in the crowd of standing Members before the speaker's counter is reporting for the floor.]] Yes. And I will ask Mr. Marek the Výborný with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I apologize very much, but there was a government meeting at the moment. Of course, originally today should not have been a plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. The government has translated its meetings here, into the premises of the plenary or into the premises of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask for five minutes of pause, or four minutes until 13.05, so that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek can come and present himself... [[Minister Jurečka speaks off the microphone.]] So Mr. Vice Prime Minister here tells me it's only gonna take two minutes, about 13.04, just to be safe. Not that I can't do math, but 13.04, just in case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u3	Yes, I'm declaring a break until 13.04 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u4	So good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, dear members of the government, it is 1:04 p.m., we will return to our point of action. I see the Minister of Health is already in the room and behind the rapporteur's desk. I will ask him, Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health, to take the floor and make a proposal. [[The minister took the floor, but the microphone isn't working.]] So we have a problem with the microphone, even if it's on and it's on. Well, I'll try to turn it off and turn it on one more time, Mr. Secretary, if I can do it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u5	It's just really not my fault the microphones didn't work. I'm pretty sure it's not even Kalousek's fault. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But let's get serious. Once again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting an amendment to the pandemic law, House press 127, and at the same time I am presenting a proposal for an extension of this pandemic law. I have now been given a decision by the Administrative Court that one of the measures taken last year has been revoked. And it is a measure that we all seem to think is very reasonable, which applies in all countries. And this is a measure that only vaccinations may take place in restaurants and accommodations during the period of validity of the measure, a limited period of validity. This measure started to apply sometime in the middle of November, and we then extended the validity of this measure. And the administrative court is of the opinion that there is insufficient justification in the pandemic law for this measure. If I say this in a very simple way, because the measure hangs in the data box for a few minutes, it has 30 pages, so I have now very casually flew through half the page. Exactly, here, this measure and the decision of the administrative court, is precisely the reason for the question that came to that first question, why it is necessary to amend the pandemic law. The pandemic law needs to be amended, because if this new pandemic law were to apply today, this measure, which is without a doubt correct at the time when there were high numbers during Christmas, when there was an omicron in the Republic, when there was an omicron, and which certainly helped, would be unassailable. Because in the amendment to the pandemic law, this measure has support. So why do we have to extend the pandemic law? That was the second question. Why do we have to extend it in an emergency? Because the 28th end of the pandemic law, and we must have a law that allows us, if any mutation gets here, if the situation gets worse - and let us look at Germany, where the situation gets worse and the numbers of the infected grow. Let us look at Austria, where, on the one hand, vaccination is compulsory under relatively high fines, which are being deducted from the salary of those people. They're taking people's wages off. I canceled the mandatory vaccination decree. [[Report to the left side of the hall.]] So thank you for the scream from the left. I didn't inspire. Because I don't think it's the right way to go. Yet in Austria, numbers are rising. I'm really sorry, I'm gonna answer all the questions, but please save the questions for a fair discussion. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it all night, I can't sleep for a few days, because I care that the law is good...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u6	Mr President, please don't yell at the Vice Prime Minister, you will certainly have the opportunity in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for this interruption. Through Mr President, Mr Okamura, I will certainly not go down to shouting at anyone. I won't do it. I'm gonna try to be as polite to all of you as I can. I don't mind some of you yelling at me. I am aware that the level of decency is set differently, but I really will not be reduced to this. [[A big round of applause from the five-wheelers.]] I understand that we have different opinions, and it's perfectly fine. For the measures to be taken, whether or not we need the pandemic law, whether or not we have to take it in an emergency. We have different views on how effective vaccination is. We have a different opinion about whether there's a covid. And I've even seen several of yesterday's demonstrators who had banners and believe that the hardest currency will be the semen of unvacated men. And they're probably planning on investing in their free time and savings. I understand. We are in a democracy, and every person has the right to his opinion unless he threatens others with it unless he acts aggressively and threatens others. I'm never really gonna go down on that. So I'd like to return in peace to the justification. So the first reason is that the pandemic law ends on February 28th and we would not have any tool that we could not just take any action. And I firmly believe that in March we will be able to release all measures to the maximum. So far, everything's working according to Professor Dušek's predictions, based on how we set up the measures. You don't have to agree with them, but so far, the numbers match what I've always said in advance for a week to 14 days. Yes, next week, over the next week, the number of patients will be increasing, hospitalized, patients will be growing on ICUs. And practical doctors have enough medicine, they have good medicine, they have antivirals, they have simple cards, where there's information on how to correctly indicate. [[13.10 hours]] I am taking this opportunity again, and I realize now that I do not explain what will be in the pandemic law, but I consider it extremely important, and please all those who have problems: go to your doctor, don't call him, go to him personally, get a PCR test so we can get you on medication in time. If it does not work the way it should, through Mr President, some Members seem to have a personal experience, then yes, it is an individual failure, but the system is set up well, and I thank again Professor Vašáková, who set it up with a clinical group in which there are representatives of all expertise, infectious medicine, pulmonary medicine, practical doctors, across the spectrum, as in the team of my advisors are not only on one side of the spectrum, but there is also Dr Zelená and Professor Thon is also there. So back to the pandemic law. I mentioned the second reason here, and I'm going to say it again. It is an amendment to the text of the law to reflect the measures of the administrative court, and all the changes that we have made there reflect the measures of the administrative court in order to take account of compensation in some way and to allow for any new mutation to be brought here in order to allow the State to intervene in time to protect patients. That is the point of every law that one of those countries in Europe has adopted. I don't want to say it's anybody's fault that we don't have any other legislation that can be used, but the reality is that the crisis law that is prepared doesn't contain anything about the pandemic law. What's the point, I don't think there's any point in dissecting at this point. I've made it clear how it came into being here. We discussed it in the galleys, I'm not going back to it, because there's no point in talking about what happened two years ago was. Let's see what we can do next. Unfortunately, we do not even have an amended other possible law that could be used, i.e. the Health Services Act. This law, as soon as I joined the Ministry, I assigned as a priority task, a priority task of the Ministry of Health, to prepare for the House as quickly as possible. But the law isn't easy, and while they're working on it, the law won't be ready until June. The original plan that I met when I came to the Ministry of Health was that the bill would be passed next year. I would like to bring him into the normal legislative process in June, which means that we will not have him approved in September, October, November, we will discuss him because this is a legislation that is complex, about hygiene, about the reorganisation of the functioning of hygiene, and that is essential. Again, there was a consensus across the political spectrum, and for various reasons, the legislation did not go through. We can then say from which side, but I consider it unnecessary, because these are things that we all see in this issue, regardless of which political party we are from, regardless of whether we are in opposition or in coalition, we understand. The third reason, which is very important, is that the pandemic law is putting the measures on, and it is not only the restrictive measures that, once again, we want to gradually release, but today the government has decided that the last area testing in schools and employers ends on the 18th. We have a clear plan, a clear strategy, and this is the first step in the plan. But the pandemic law also turns off other extraordinary measures that set up, for example, the existence of certificates in general, the operation of smart quarantines and other instruments that de facto actively invite people to vaccinations, send them addressed text messages, and this whole system would shut down and we would have to look for another way, which, of course, is not a criticism, it is just a statement, the previous government failed to find. And I don't think she was trying to. She just didn't find the way. We have to find her. We need to find it across the political spectrum, because the virus will exist, and if the omicron happens to be the last mutation and we're lucky that no more, worse mutations appear, it's a big warning. We must have legislation that allows us to intervene in time, intervene preventively and intervene in such a way that it will have as little damage as possible not only on the economy, but above all on citizens of the Czech Republic, on their psyche, on education and on everything where we have had to deal repeatedly with crisis situations in recent years. That pandemic law is something that gives us this certainty for a temporary period of time. Again, the pandemic law has incorporated all the comments that the administrative court had during that year and a half. Why do I know? Who planned the amendment to the pandemic law? I will take the liberty here, and I may be stoned for it again, but I will say this, through Mr President, to thank the absent Mr Babiš, before the Prime Minister, who approached me and suggested that I work as head of AntiCovid's team with the Ministry of Health. I accepted the offer and two months, maybe two and a half months we met regularly with the team of Minister Vojtěch, who was the last Minister of Health in the series we discussed practical things with. A number of things we didn't agree on, a number of things we agreed on. One of the things we discussed with each other, and our experts - and those "our experts" are some of the Members sitting here - were preparing comments on the pandemic law that Minister Vojtěch incorporated into the law. And you, who were in that last government, you know very well that the pandemic law went through internal commentary, but also interdepartmental. [[13.20 hours]] That means, when I joined the Ministry of Health, I had a pandemic law prepared to commemorate the ministries led by the ministers of the previous government. I've incorporated some other comments into it, which the administrative court has drawn in the meantime. I have incorporated into it the position of the legislative minister, Minister Šalomoun, and I have incorporated into him some experience from abroad. I am not saying that it was easy, but I followed up on the work of Minister Vojtěch and I would like to thank him from this place, although he is not here and is no longer a Member, because he started it. And I followed up on it. If there was another outcome of the election, we would probably be sitting here in the same composition and there would be a minister standing behind the ANO movement and defending this law. That's reality. So the third reason we need the law is because if it doesn't, we're shutting everything down. After the 28th time, we shut down everything. What does that mean? Rules that apply in the rest of the world will cease to apply in the Czech Republic. What are the rules? I get criticized for having the toughest measures, and it's loosening up everywhere. That's not really true, and I'm terribly sorry. Yes, there are countries where there are less tough measures, but there are few. And I know why there are less tough measures. The reasons for this are twofold: either a long time ago an omicron passed through those countries, one of them or the other, has an extremely high population inoculation. Measures in the Czech Republic - I apologize for reading this for the first time - are among the mildest in the European Union already. When it comes to respirators, the conditions in the countries are essentially aligned. Everywhere there is an obligation to wear respirators in public transport, but beware, in Slovakia even the obligation to wear respirators anywhere outside where a distance of two meters cannot be observed. The same rule applies in Austria or in Spain, where it is released. But without the respirators, they won't let you out. You still have to wear it on the street. The exemption from wearing respirators up to the age of 15 is then completely unique within the EU. It is in the Czech Republic. In some countries, this limit is set at six years. Six years! He's had to wear respirators since he was six. I'm glad that neither the previous nor this government ever thought of such a thing. Most of them since they were 12 years old. Please, since I was 12. I wouldn't have thought of introducing such a measure! There's no way our experts would recommend him. Even in restaurant and other refreshment measures, our measures are among the mildest, and this needs to be stressed. The mildest. In Slovakia, but also in Austria, and if you want to inspire yourself in the country that was our example of freedom, Sweden, so that the opening hours in Sweden are still limited. We didn't limit opening hours. Bars and discos are closed in a number of countries until now. In Poland, it is north of us, the country from which we take an example, as it is free, is limited the capacity of restaurants to only 30 percent. We've never limited capacity like this. Poland also restricts sports facilities, swimming pools, where capacity can only be filled by 50 percent. Even in public events, the rules that apply now in the Czech Republic are very mild compared to other countries. In Austria, access to all events is permitted only for fully vaccinated, i.e. for those who have a booster dose or after a disease has been lost. Even under this condition, only 25 persons or 500 persons may be present at the event if they have seating positions. Czech Republic 1 100. Four times, double. Please, let's remember that. Austria can soften measures three more times, and they will be as soft as they are in the Czech Republic. Slovakia is even tougher. Even more stringent is Slovakia, where the 50 per cent rule of capacity applies. At most 100 people at the event. A hundred people at the event. A very similar rule is in Poland. But in Israel, for example, there is a rule about limiting the number of persons even in any public place. In Israel. In any public place, a limited number of persons. Accommodation in hotels is restricted to holders of valid certificates. Just for them, everywhere. Here it should be stressed that, for example, our neighbours Germany and Austria, but also France and Portugal. Portugal, number one inoculation. Portugal... is a person considered to be fully vaccinated only if he has a booster dose. It's a booster dose. Those rules apply to all who go there, not just to their citizens. She received her primary vaccination a short time ago. We have basic vaccinations acceptable for nine months. We've postponed the possibility of a bustling dose 14 more days. The only country in Europe that did this. The only country in Europe. In general, European Union countries are going the way of easing restrictions, which are not yet close to the situation in the Czech Republic, yet we are planning further easing. Why? Because the situation is developing relatively very favorably. The numbers correspond to predictions, and the measures, although unpopular, although stressful, and yes, I get those letters, I go to school, and yes, I realize what teachers must experience, what many employees experience, employers experience. But at this price, what did we buy to test the antigen tests across the board? We bought an extension of that curve for it, and we bought it for not having that big peak in a matter of days that would have been brutally affected by our health care. That's what we bought. And all the experts, it doesn't matter if it's Professor Prymula, it doesn't matter if it's Chlíbek, it doesn't matter if it's Thon, it doesn't matter who, they agree. What do I get the most from fellow Kubek experts? For making these measures too soft. And what do I say? Those measures are supposed to be hard enough to make sense of it. Not because I can take tougher measures. I don't want to introduce them as hard as I can. Those measures affect me. They touch my friends, my family. I want as soft a measure as possible. But I want to protect those who can die of covid. That is why I need a new pandemic law, so that if any measures need to be implemented, they are in accordance with the law, they are not dropped by the administrative court, they have meaning, and it could work. And as soon as possible, and I hope to be able to do this by June, I will present to the House for proper reading, for the proper discussion of an amendment to the law which will replace this legislation, and which will allow us to prepare for any epidemic, pandemic, endemic future. That's the target. I hope it's clear that it's understandable and that experts believe that I will. And I hope you do, too. In general, it can be said that easing is possible, but this easing is mostly limited to capacity. Yes, that's one of the plans. It goes towards the fact that the services will be accessible to those who are vaccinated or have experienced the disease. But I want to move on. And I think we can release even more, because we really have the situation under control, but in the horizon, which will be based on the data we collect in the second half of February. I'm just not gonna make any promises here where I'm not sure that Duškův's data and expert opinion are enough to guarantee that the outcome will not lead to unnecessary dead people. I'd rather not be a minister! In France, for example, from mid-January you can go to the restaurant, but also to cinemas, museums, theatres, you can play sports, to public transport, as well as to stay in the hotel only if you have been vaccinated or you have had a disease, otherwise you will not go anywhere. In Portugal, exactly the same rules apply, only for this can be used PCR test, and yes, we must introduce this in our country. However, this is covered in the case of an adult, and please, in all countries where the PCR test is recognised to enter anywhere, it is paid for. It's not free anywhere! Everywhere, in every country, he pays for it. This procedure is also chosen by Germany, by Austria and other countries. [[13.30 hours]] Well, thank you very much for yesterday's debate, and I'm not saying it ironically, thank you for some of the performances this morning. Where it was interesting, professional and where it made me think, I applauded, even though they were colleagues from the opposition. And I hope that the debate on the pandemic law on your amendments, comments, opinions will be equally correct and reasonable. I am ready to answer your questions, I am ready to discuss, I am prepared to cooperate to the maximum for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm not willing to shout, I'm not willing to get pushed to the aggression line. I am willing to speak correctly about what is good for our fellow citizens and how to get from a crisis solution to the standard solution of any other fatal serious illness. But I will never agree that vaccination doesn't save people's lives. He's saving. There is no country - and it is no vaccination lobby - there is no country that has other data, data from all countries are the same: after a strengthening dose of zero hospitalizations at ECMO, virtually zero hospitalization rates at ICU. After the second dose, if at that time six months, if six months have not passed since the second dose, the reduction in the number, the reduction in the risk of hospitalization to ECMO to 97 per cent, the rate of reduction in the risk of hospitalization to 93 per cent. This data is strong enough for me. The Czech Republic invests huge money in screening programs. Why? Because we don't want patients dying in vain at terminal stages of cancer. And a lot of people aren't using these screening programs, even if it's for their benefit, even if it saves health, even if it couldn't save their lives, but significantly prolong their lives. Still, I wouldn't dream of making the screening program mandatory. We have democracy, and everyone can decide their fate, their future, including their wrong choices. But the state must help him. Even if he makes a wrong decision, he can't let him fall. That's why the state is here. The same applies to vaccination. The vaccination here saved hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of lives. You don't have to agree, you can laugh at me, you can say I'm crazy and I'm wrong, but you don't change the fact that this is a fact. That's why I want the pandemic law, and I'm asking you to approve it. That's why I want us to continue the vaccination, but I don't want it to be mandatory. I want us to strengthen the explaining campaign, and I will do everything in my power to explain to the citizens, and I ask you to cooperate, even if you may not believe it, to convince our fellow citizens that it is good to vaccinate. I don't want to force them, I don't want to force them with legislation, I don't want to force them with restrictions. I want to do this because I'm a doctor and I'm used to offering patients my entire professional life what I think is best for them, and I've been used to my whole life that some people don't agree with it, and then I always think it's just my failure that I didn't explain it well enough. I hope I have at least explained to you the reason why you need to have a pandemic law, and the reason why I am coming to you with this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u8	Thank you very much. Before I give the rapporteur the floor and ask him for the opening word, I'll read the apology. Today from 14:00 to 19:00, the Minister of Justice Blažek apologizes for his work and so does the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, from this afternoon's meeting until the end of the day for working reasons. That would be an apology. And I am now saying that the Committee on Health, to which the Government's bill has been ordered, has discussed it by its President and has adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 127/1. I will now ask Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, to take the floor, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u9	Thank you, Mr President. At its 4th meeting on 25 January 2022, the Committee on Health acted on a government bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Sb., on emergency measures, etc. in relation to emergency measures in the covid-19 epidemic. After the opening word of the Minister of Health, profesor Vlastimil Válek and the report by Mr Svoboda and after the debate, the Committee of Parliament of the Czech Republic I proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on the bill by Tuesday, 25 January 2022 at 19.00 at the latest - this condition was, of course, broken over time; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures in the event of a covid-19 epidemic and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court's finding, the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the event of an epidemic of disease (the House Press 127), as amended by the amendment adopted: Point 46 shall read: "The provisions of Sections 1 to 8a shall expire on 30 November 2022.' The Health Committee hereby authorises the rapporteur of the Committee of the Member of Freedom to present the opinion of the Committee to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and empowers the rapporteur of the Committee of the Member of the Freedom to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies of the Chamber of Deputies. This justification for the amendment, which is based on the Health Committee, is relatively very simple. We were very dissatisfied with the fact that all the measures that we consider necessary and necessary do not have their time limit, so that it would apply indefinitely, even if there was no virus here anymore or if it were not necessary. That is why, after extensive discussion, we have come to define the end of this period. As the end, we defined the end of November because we considered the probability that the covid will retreat with certainty in the summer months, because that is how influenza viruses behave, and that the risk is again for the beginning of autumn. That's why we wanted us to have the tools in hand at the beginning of the fall, and if nothing else happened, we could end it. Of course, the House can end it whenever it decides. The next meeting was held between the various members of the committee and the coalition as such. This has resulted in a number of amendments, which I suppose will be tabled, and I will then comment on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u10	rapporteur, thank you for your introductory words and I ask you to take your place behind the rapporteur's table and watch the debate. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. I'm the one who got the co-workers from the O.R. to come. We will vote on whether we will have a general debate on the draft bill tabled. So I'm gonna let my colleagues get here a little while longer. Yes, I'm registering the check-out request, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-registered with your I.D. cards. [[13.40 hours]] The number of Members and Members shall slowly cease to exist. I will repeat once again for those who arrived at these moments that we will decide whether to hold a general debate. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of having a general debate on the proposal, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 45, 133 Members were voted in, 133 voted in, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that we will have a general debate. I am opening up a general debate with this. As far as applications for a general debate are concerned, I am registering applications with priority rights. Mr Okamura has signed up first. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] The rest of you, colleagues, I ask you to be quiet so that we can listen to President Okamura's speech. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Administrative Court is abolishing the measures, and the government of Petr Fiala and the Minister of Health at the same time is pushing for further restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms. That's a crazy government. The SPD movement is for the immediate abolition of cover antiepidemic measures related to the covid-19. We advocate the cessation of discrimination without vaccination. At the same time, the SPD is calling on the government to stop enforcing totalitarian pandemic law, to end discrimination without Fiala, and finally to address Petr enormous price increase of everything around us and to address the things that really burn citizens. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Petr Fiala's government has been here since yesterday, because we've been here 24/7 since yesterday 10 o'clock, putting the amendment to the House as its priority. The contents of this law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u12	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I understand. I'm also registering quite a lot of noise, a strong noise in the hall. Once again, colleagues, who want to do something other than the legislation we are discussing, I will ask you to go outside the Chamber and, if possible, keep your voice down so that speeches can be made. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u13	Thank you. The content of this government proposal for the so-called pandemic law is an unprecedented attack on citizens' rights and freedoms by the government coalition ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and STAN. That is why the members of the SPD will not support this amendment. Freedom is not only a constitutional right, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is a natural human right, with which we are born regardless of constitution, laws or decrees. I am saying this because I reject some legal sophistication on the subject that the constitution or the law allows this or that restriction. Freedom of movement, freedom of person, freedom of opinion, freedom to work, but even to do business are rights that the State should restrict and regulate only in the most serious cases. The principle enshrined in the Constitution also applies that freedom can only be restricted by law. Just moments ago, the Supreme Administrative Court repealed part of the measure, according to which only vaccinated people and people after losing their disease can enter restaurants or clubs under government restrictions. The judge of the Supreme Administrative Court, Petr Mikeš, explained this: the aim of the Ministry of Health's measures cannot be for citizens to be forced into a voluntary vaccination. Stop the discrimination on our part. I'm not vaccinated, either. Stop me now, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, we, who are several million in the Czech Republic, will stop the bullying. End the covid tyranny you're doing here. While countries such as Norway, Ireland, Spain, Great Britain are relaxing anti-epidemic measures regardless of the spread of omicrons and other countries such as Austria and others are already thinking about relaxing and so on, the government of Petr Fiala and the Minister of Health Válek still does not want to decide on the promised release. On the contrary, here you are promoting the pandemic law, which you want to limit, to limit, another constitution guaranteed by the rights and freedoms of citizens. I think we've had enough, even in light of today's Supreme Administrative Court verdict. And the Minister of Health is defending this here with a fiery speech that you want to enforce the pandemic law even in light of today's Supreme Administrative Court verdict. And even here, Minister, you lied, and you were applauded by government MPs because you said you'd be able to discuss it until the morning. But you were the ones here yesterday who limited us to two or five minutes. That's why I called you from afar and told you not to lie. Why are you making this up? I mean, you guys limited us to two or five minutes. It was all over the media. Everyone knows that. And you're saying you want to talk until morning? Enough with the totalitarian manners! Stop making stuff up! So that's why I really had to go over the flagrant lie right away. And the government MPs, who know very well how it was, have applauded you. Well, of course that's distinctive. Of course, the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment of today is already another one of many, which actually repeals many of the previously abolished illegal measures. The Supreme Administrative Court has previously taken dozens of similar decisions in which it pointed out the contradictions of the covido measures with the law, either for lack of support in the law or for insufficient justification. And instead of promoting our return to normal life, you're going to harden as a whole government coalition, you're going to harden the so-called pandemic law, and you're going to roll over about 95 percent of the restrictions and measures that may only be in an emergency state. Well, it's unbelievable. Minister and Government, I want to challenge you again, you have time in light of today's verdict to withdraw it. Take down the pandemic law. That's bullshit. That's just completely insane. On the contrary, you should take advantage of that judgment in a good way and simply withdraw it, or at least use it elegantly to work it out. Your Members are still working on their knees with amendments because they are pasquil. So it would be good to sign up for it, and you can just download it elegantly. But the public still knows what it's like. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the pandemic law shows that the possibility of issuing emergency measures should not only be given to the Ministry of Health, but also to the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs. The legislative power thus passes from the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the hands of three ministers who will have the right to decide our freedoms and lives. He's Secretary of Defense, Mrs. Černochová of the ODS. He is Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement. He can't even explain the strange financing of tax havens in Cyprus, and he wants to make decisions about other people's lives here. Well, that's unbelievable. He's suggesting it, the law. He's the minister of the government coalition. And then he's Secretary of Health, Válek. [[13.50 hours]] I really don't want to get under your hands and under your dictation, that's what I'm saying. So there's really no way, and after what you're doing here, I think there's a few million of us at least, it just follows from the Constitutional Court judgment, we just don't want your dictatorship when you're gonna show us what we're allowed to do with our families and if we're allowed to be here at private or social events and the like. Knock it off. Stop it! Unfortunately, from previous misguided and unconstitutional measures of the previous government, we know that human rights were not limited to all of us by ministers, but also by a group of anonymous officials who wrote illogical illegal measures, and ministers signed them. The government amendment will extend the list of emergency measures that can be taken under the pandemic law under adverse epidemic situations. The authorities will be able to limit business and other activities in the establishment, business centre, market or market. It will also be possible to regulate operating hours. Restrictions will also be possible for all activities in which a person is in direct contact with someone else, based on your government proposal. The amendment also complements the power to regulate the operation of all types of sports facilities, schools, children's groups and facilities for extracurricular education of children. The measures will also apply to music, dance and similar clubs, discotheques, gambling rooms, casinos, museums, galleries, castles, castles, public libraries, planetariums, zoos and botanical gardens. The amendment presented by Petr Fiala's government includes cultural events, restrictions on cultural events, festivals, festivals, markets, fairs, recovery events for children or suburban camps. Authorities will also be able to order on the basis of your proposed and enforced law, you go hard to enforce it, hard to enforce it here, so they will be able to order testing in employment and in schools. People who have had the result of an antigen test as positive will be able to order them to stay separate from others on the basis of your law. You do all this by law. Similar restrictions will be able to be imposed by the authorities on people who have returned from countries with an increased risk of Coronavirus infection. Passengers from abroad could then be obliged to fill in the arrival form. Following the extension of the list of emergency measures, the offences will be adjusted so that any emergency measure is enforceable. Look what you're dealing with as a priority right now. Not increasing energy and food, no, no, no, pandemic law and reducing and tightening the screws to citizens in their freedoms and rights, while many other countries, on the contrary, are returning to normal life. It is now stated in the Act that regulations on isolation or quarantine may be notified orally or in writing by health professionals and other workers to the person concerned, including by means of distance communication. Even now the hygienist often communicates the decision on isolation or quarantine on the phone, but at present, according to the courts, this is an illegal procedure. Is it normal for him to call you an anonymous call on Saturday morning and say you're grounded for a week? Without any paper and the possibility of appeal, the possibility of protesting? And I can already hear the Minister walking here, perhaps, and some Members: but we have already put an amendment there. But all you're saying is that it's a pasculi and that you're shuffling it from the left, from the right, to the right, and that it doesn't correspond to the result of a legislative emergency or an accelerated procedure, because it's a serious law that you want to limit 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic. And here, based on folk creativity from the left, from the right you give changers. Oh, shit. Creepy all over. In history, as far as I know that without any paper, without any possibility of appeal, the possibility of protesting will be told that you are under house arrest for a week, an anonymous one, so in history I know only one such precedent: the Nazis, following the fire of the Reichstag, adopted a decree on the Reichstag fire, which limited some freedoms to protect the state. According to him, enemies of the people could have been arrested and placed in so-called protective custody. The paradox is that according to this bill of yours, they could have been placed there, not only when they threatened others... sorry, according to the German law, not only people who threatened others but also in their own interests could be placed there. There was no legal protection against this decree, against this Nazi decree. The resemblance of the Nazi and your government law is striking. Of course, none of you have the courage to say he's a dictator and to deliberately terrorize other people. After all, every dictatorship, like this government, faces that what it does is necessary for our own protection and for our best interest. The Pandemic Law, whether the existing one, which is valid until 28 February, was the newly proposed one - and we did not vote, the SPD was the only MP club that voted against the existing version of the pandemic law, which you, the current government five-wheeler with the ANO movement - so the pandemic law, whether the existing one, which is valid until 28 February, is the newly proposed one, is without debate from the principle of unconstitution. Here I would remind you that the SPD MP was the only one who voted against the pandemic law here last year. We all know why the law came about, but I'll remind you. The standard situation in the recent past was that a very serious reason or situation is really needed in order to limit citizens' rights and freedoms, and this state of affairs is expressed by the government and Parliament by adopting or extending the emergency situation. If the country is really in an emergency, then it is understandable and in the public interest that some rights are limited, but only in a real emergency, this is a terrorist attack, perhaps someone will hypothetically attack Temelín, there will be a really large, massive natural disaster, a real epidemic, which is not here. The government, both the previous one and the current one, is pushing for restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms, even though there is clearly no emergency. Although we are still having chaos because of the Minister of Health at the Top 09 Válek, it is clear that there is no real serious disaster comparable to an epidemic of a really flat-lined disease such as the Spanish flu or floods, earthquakes or war. Yet, as a priority, you are pushing the pandemic law and the correspondence vote. No law to solve people's upheaval. No, you don't care. Here's what you're wondering. We've been spending all of January on this. Anyway, you haven't even proposed a law for people, so it, you don't offer an alternative, the alternative here offered SPD, 21 laws, and you have rejected us here, on the contrary, to support disabled people, seniors, working families with children, businessmen, these are all the laws of the SPD, but you don't want that. You're not suggesting anything, and you're rejecting SPD proposals, and in the meantime, people go through expensive bills, but you don't care. So because there is no really serious disaster comparable to an epidemic or a major disaster, so the government invented a detour, the government of Petr Fiala here with the Minister of Health Válek, how to limit people without declaring an emergency, because the emergency is not really here. And that loophole is the pandemic law. Yes, so did the YES movement, Andrej Babiš, who actually gives the government dictatorial and undemocratic powers without the possibility of controlling Parliament or citizens. But you've already upgraded. Basically, this novel of yours, it really brings it to perfection in a negative sense, because you really turned over the vast majority of restrictive measures that may only be in an emergency state, which is a constitutional issue in that case. So it's this pandemic law that you like, in the government, that you want you basically to have dictatorial and undemocratic powers without the possibility of controlling Parliament or citizens, because the emergency situation there is Parliament's control in case of an extension, for example. Here is the crucial difference, when in the event of an emergency, after all, Parliament has some possibility of stopping the government. But this pandemic loop relieves him of that power. [[14.00 hours]] The Fialův Government is here promoting the autocrracy of several elected members of the government without any control and brakes. In the past year, he has shown us that there are certainly no courts in control that have tried to abolish illegal non-constitutional decrees, but the problem is that no one in the government has respected them and still does not respect them. The only effective effective control of executives would be the citizen, i.e. the Act on the referendum and rescindability of politicians. But that's a model that squeaky and closely rejects this entire House except for the SPD. And it's quite clear why. The kind of totalitarian proposals that the government is making and planning here would immediately be thrown at you by the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom is a natural human right that is born to man. We only have as much freedom as we don't take in our lives. Economists would explain to you that the state, however necessary, has one unpleasant quality: it is in a sense like hell. But now let me finish saying, "What the state takes, it won't bring back." That's the moment. The fact that we have murderous taxes and insatiable state and European bureaucracy throughout Europe is due, for example, to the fact that, in every war, in the first, in the second, in an emergency, countries have taken on more and more tax percentages. They began to regulate larger and larger parts of the private and civil sectors. After the war, what they learned to take didn't come back to people. If once the legislators, following the model of other developed countries, have determined that restricting the constitutional rights of citizens can only be done by law and only in cases of extreme need, only for the duration of the emergency has, and it has its basis, in order that anyone does not like an uncontrolled monopoly on dictatorship and cannot retain it for an unlimited period of time. As anti-democratic and unconstitutional as the last pandemic law passed by Babišův's government, at least there was a condition of limited time. Again, I stress that the SPD here, as the only MP, voted against the pandemic law. Because we've been saying from the start, and the court's judgments have given us the truth that it's basically just an otherwise-named emergency. And it is simply clear that emergency measures, when you restrict constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens under constitutional law, cannot be done the way that you are trying to do here on the basis of normal law. It's just dictatorship, totalitarianism. Even the dictators in ancient Rome were elected only for a limited period of time during time of need and danger. This Fialův government comes up with a proposal for a dictatorship of nothing and no one unlimited and also unfounded. The fact that you forbid entering a restaurant without vaccination to healthy people, but the sick can be vaccinated, and, by the way, they also serve inoculated, does not prevent the spread of the covid. Closing classes and sending home healthy children who can't learn is also unconstitutional and illogical, because it doesn't help anything. Today, even the greatest covidhysterics cannot ignore scientific reports that people have the best immunity after losing the virus and that children are not really at risk of serious action. The restrictive measures that you are implementing and intend to implement are, in the above context, criminal and public health, unjustified, as the courts have also stated many times in the past when assessing the so-called degree of proportionality. The amendment of the pandemic law presented here by Fialův's five-calice government is an instrument to subjugate the entire nation. By this law, the government wants to legalize another terror against its own citizens. We are at a time when we must not move and breathe freely. We are at a time when tyranny still openly reveals its disgusting face. Out on the streets today, thousands of people are demonstrating for freedom. Cops and soldiers join them. That's a good sign that the nation is sticking together. But it's a bad sign for you, the government and the government's MPs, the government's coalition. Just because you refuse to give citizens a vote and a right to make decisions about your country does not mean that this natural human right and civil law will not eventually be taken, whether you want it or not. Fathers of the founders of the United American Colonies have written in their declaration the sentences that apply to this day, and please keep them in mind. I quote: We take for granted the truth that all men are created equal. That they are endowed with their Creator, with certain inalienable rights, that these rights include life, freedom, and the pursuit of personal happiness. That, in order to secure these rights, they establish themselves among the people of government who derive their legitimate powers from the consent of those they govern. That whenever a government begins to hinder these objectives, the people have the right to change or abolish it and to establish a new government that is based on such principles and has its authority adjusted in a way that the people see fit to ensure their safety and happiness. Though discretion commands long - established governments not to be changed for unclear and fleeting reasons, all experience shows that mankind is far more prone to suffering as long as evil is bearable than to level with itself by rejecting forms that are customary. If, however, a long series of evils and ambush following a permanent same object develops into a form of submission, complete despociation, it is their right, their duty to overthrow such a government and to secure new guards for their future security. End of quote from the Declaration of Founders of United American Colonies. The proposed law allows the Ministry of Health, specifically the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09, to maintain current bans even without emergency conditions. The proposed fines for violating the bans are drastic, up to millions. For what? If you get caught without a drape or pour a beer unscathed or, like, in the past for singing and dancing in the pub? Government Members are weakening their supervisory role towards the government in the proposed law. So far, the government has had to obtain the approval of the Chamber of Deputies every 30 days of emergency. The government coalition wants to give extraordinary powers to the government by law forever. Although the law provides judicial control, the courts judge the law from an act, while the Chamber of Deputies can also assess the appropriateness and regularity of the measures. If something is legal, it may not yet be reasonable and correct. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the event that you eventually push this law into force, the House will abolish it as an undemocratic attempt at dictatorship at the latest, unless the Constitutional Court cancels it earlier. As I have already declared, the SPD movement in case you push through this law, the pandemic law, so we're already preparing a constitutional complaint. This law can destroy our country and society for years. Think about whether you want to enroll in history as those who have approved literally the fascist standard, or as those who have taken sides in the rights and freedoms of their citizens, as the SPD does. Ladies and gentlemen, I have noted the hysteria of the members of the government coalition from this, often crying and lamenting that Okamura and the SPD are blocking the House here because of such stupidity as the pandemic law. On the other hand, many experts and judges note that even experts directly linked to the government coalition, such as the former pirát candidate, who became subsequently uncomfortable for the pirát, was a candidate for the Minister of Health and renowned legal expert Dr. Dostál, say the same thing as the SPD. If there are ever any real epidemics, then constitutional rights are to be restricted only under emergency conditions. And that must really be in extremely serious moments. If the situation is not so serious as to justify declaring an emergency, it is neither normal nor acceptable in democracy to restrict these rights without Parliament's control, only by decision of ministers or their officials. This was possible for Marie Terezie or for Nazi Germany. Today, our constitution clearly states that citizens can be restricted only in reasonable cases of public interest and only by law. [[14.10 hours]] Fellow Members, I respect you as elected citizens' representatives, but as much as you may not respect me, at least try to appreciate freedom and democracy and try to respect the rights as well. To those who have retained some respect for the law, I, of course, refer to members of the government coalition, I would like to read part of the Supreme Administrative Court ruling number 8 Ao 16/2021-124. On 23 June 2021, the Supreme Administrative Court in Brno declared this to the Minister of Health's decree: "The Supreme Administrative Court is aware of the seriousness of the epidemic situation and of the fact that the virus does not obey the law or judgment of the court, but the court cannot allow the Minister of Health to become in a democratic rule of law, even without declaring an emergency, a person similar to a Roman dictator with an extensive possibility to regulate human behavior that has no right." This is the end of the quotation of the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court in Brno of 23 June 2021. Recently. I don't understand how the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek of TOP 09 can even design here, and even what he said here is absolutely incredible. How can anyone have dictatorial manners like that? Ladies and gentlemen... But it's not just about the minister, it's about the entire government, because it's a government proposal. So let's not say it's the Minister himself. He'd be a loser, 'cause... The Minister nods, yes, he does. The designer - it's a government proposal, the entire government agrees, the entire government's five-caliber. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic law that you propose grossly contradicts all the principles of democracy, all the principles of the natural human right to freedom and justice. In this regard, I believe that the courts, including the highest, would tear your law apart, and if you force it against the will of citizens, against the will of legal experts, I hope that the courts will send it to eternal hunting grounds anyway. And I know that there will be nothing but disgrace and your lost struggle, because the struggle for freedom and the right you must lose and you will lose. And the sooner you give up this attempt to introduce a dictatorship of ministers and ministerial servants, the better for you. Your stupid attack on civil liberties, your stupid attempt to gain uncontrollable power over people, and this country will guarantee us success in the SPD in the next elections, and many of you, I hope, will erase from the political scene. But it will not erase you from the memory of the nation as a disgrace to this parliament. It's up to you what you choose. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to realise what is and what is not freedom and human rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u14	Thank you. Your speech, Mr President, raised a point of fact, with which Mr Milan Brázdil came forward. I will ask the Member to come to the speaker's desk. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u15	Thank you. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to respond to the Minister, perhaps even to the rapporteur. Please, I have a simple question. Do we know today what the relevant clinical signs of omicron are? We know that what happened a few months ago, the delta, is manifesting the respirators with Distress Syndrome, simply respiratory insufficiency. By the way, I don't want to look any of you in the eye - as a paramedic, I know what I'm talking about - a person who can't breathe. Crazy eyes, and he knows either he's gonna quit or you're gonna intubate him and he's got a chance. I don't want to go back to that. You described how important it is to have a booster, a third vaccination. There's some clinical data for that. Let's imagine that there's a patient, something like Mr. Okamura, who says he's not vaccinated, he's clean, he's on the starting line, and we're all now, and there's a new virus or an omicron variant. What are the clinical signs of this disease? A lot of experts say it's a dent, and I'm just asking in this context if that's what it takes. There's an infection in the retreat, it looks good, it's about to relax, but what about the clinical signs of a new variant where it doesn't work, supposedly doesn't work, the vaccination that was before? So just in connection with the extinction of this pandemic or epidemic or this covid affair with what the omicron looks like today clinically, and whether it's still needed or not. It's a professional thing. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u16	Thank you for the point of fact, and Mr Válek, the Minister of Health, is also reporting with the facts at the moment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u17	Madam President, thank you. Thank you very much for this question because it is extremely important. There is one clinical symptom. The symptoms are very similar - now I'm talking about how I can tell I might have an omicron. The symptoms are very similar to those of the delta, but there is one symptom that in the delta was virtually not and is quite common in the omicron, and it is diarrhea. That means, a warning that I might be omicron positive is diarrhea combined with, say, some breathing problems. What is different, a much larger number of infected, therefore an incubation period of five days, a logically shortened quarantine, reduced isolation to five days, but a faster spread. Therefore, something needs to be done to prevent rapid spread from making it a high peak, but to extend the peak, and even if the percentage of those who have a serious course is of course lower than the delta, the huge numbers of infected will pull the amount of positive up. And we still have 400,000 who are at risk. The third dose protects against serious progress. The data is verified from all countries. The second dose protects, but the later it protects from the second dose, the less it protects, which is why they recommend re-inoculating the third dose after six, even some after five months. That's why it's worth a shot. Anyway, those who aren't vaccinated, we can't dump them, and we have to tell them what the symptoms are. Therefore, thank you again for your question. At this time and for the next four weeks, for the next three weeks: respiratory difficulties to underestimate, not to say I have a cold. If associated with diarrhoea, doctor, PCR, PCR-positive, early treatment. That's what I can recommend to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u18	Minister, thank you for keeping the time. I have another factual point with which Jan Bauer applied. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u19	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I know we've been hearing a lot of negative things here for almost the second day, so let me share one pleasant and positive thing with you. About a year ago, when I got a covid, I lost my sense of smell, which I'm just not alone. This happens to everyone, I think there are thousands of us, and I am very pleased to announce that today at approximately 1 p.m., I have returned my sense of smell, which is a very positive thing. I was still in my office smelling my perfume because I didn't feel it for three quarters of a year, and it's true. I'm just wondering what the main reason is, and maybe that's a question for the doctors here. Either the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and this room are some modern Czech Lurdes, where miracles arise from time to time, or - and this is the second option - just like you, I just haven't slept for 24 hours, and unfortunately I have the bad luck that I'm just sitting here in the first row and getting a heavy dose of negative energy, and it's getting a lot higher in the speeches made by President Tomio Okamura. I understand. He's just doing opposition work. So I don't know if it's just a matter of the Czech Lourdes or the death cocktail for 24 hours not sleeping and listening to the huge amount of negative energy. Anyway, I got my sense of smell back. Of course this place is available for all of you if you have similar problems. I'm just pointing out that if you sat down and were perfectly healthy, you could lose something, like hearing or common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u20	I thank the honourable Member for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I don't have another application, so at this point, we're going to continue with the priority rights when the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala is signed up. [[14.20 hours]] But I can still read the apologies, 'cause there's a lot of apologies going around right now. I have here a note from Minister Mikuláš Bek today, 2. 2., from 14:00 to the end of the day, I do not see the reason here. Next, I have an apology from Mrs Barbora Urbanová's meeting 2. 2. from midnight to 14:00 for medical reasons, Mr Šimon Heller's note, namely 2. 2. from 14:00 to Thursday 3. 2. up to 9 hours for family reasons. Then I have a note from Mrs Tani Mala from 13.30 to the end of the day, from today, for work reasons. Then I have a note from Mrs Zdenka Němečková Crkvenjaš, who is excused on 2. 2. because of the illness, and then the last note by Mrs Bačíková, on Wednesday 2 February from 14 to 18 hours for work reasons. Well, that was all the apologies at the moment, and, Mr President, at the moment, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that we have said a lot both yesterday and today, and I am going to limit myself to a brief position on behalf of the SPD, because, despite the limitations of time, Members of the SPD will still speak to the Pandemic Law. We are still behind this, as an SPD MP, we are behind doing everything we can to ensure that this law, which we believe is unconstitutional or unconstitutional, can be called what we want and introduces a covido dictatorship so that it is not approved. The President of the House, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, convened a meeting of the House in a legislative emergency on 1 February to discuss an amendment to the so-called pandemic law, which is due to expire at the end of February. The Pandemic Law of the SPD has been criticizing the SPD from the very beginning and we also consider this government presented as another legislative paskvil. This is essentially a codification of the emergency situation, but it is part of a measure under the constitutional law on security, which restricts citizens to their rights, and therefore this constitutional law cannot be replaced in quotation marks by an ordinary implementing regulation, an ordinary implementing law, in this case a pandemic law. That is why the rights set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms are clear, so that the rights are given by the Constitution so that they cannot simply be restricted. The SPD will do its utmost again to prevent this amendment from being approved. [[The noise in the room persists.]] The pandemic law limits fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of business. It is totally unacceptable for us to take after 28 February 2022 The Ministry of Health had the opportunity to regulate pubs, establishments and primary and secondary schools at its own discretion. In order to determine the triumvirate of ministries, that is, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, also the security forces, to decide de facto without Parliament's control of everything in this state. Moreover, according to the amendment, it is also intended to extend the range of equipment that the government can limit. Measures can even be re-issued not only by the Ministry of Health, but also by the Ministry of Defence and Interior. In addition, it will be possible to lay down a general emergency measure for all people who have a positive antigen test or are returning from a risky area from abroad, and this risk area is not even specified in the proposal. This means, de facto, that they are also, by means of SMS, targeted individuals with severe restrictions on freedom, such as the obligation to live separately from others. This is completely unacceptable. For example, there is no legal regulation on the obligation to hold a mobile phone. No one has a duty to carry a mobile phone and read SMS messages from unknown numbers, which is not just about our seniors. And, of course, we have much more reservations about the pandemic law. According to the SPD, this is only an otherwise named emergency situation in the event of its adoption, and this is completely unacceptable for us. The government wants to introduce a covido dictatorship by law. The government of Petr Fiala claimed that it would do differently in the case of pandemics than Babišův's government, but it has not yet come up with anything new. It is unable to manage the state in a time of crisis by existing legislation, such as the Public Health Act, as suggested by the SPD since the beginning, with the law being amended or by the crisis law. The SPD movement decided to file a constitutional complaint in the event of the approval of this law. We believe that it is absolutely incompatible for us to discuss this law in a legislative emergency, while Prime Minister and Ministers said publicly to TV screens that we are actually approving the law just to be sure, what if there were other mutations or a major impact in respiratory diseases in the autumn season. If that is the case, then we have sufficient time to approve this law in a normal legislative process, not in a legislative emergency. In this case, I believe that the institute of legislative emergency is being overused and it is nonsense for us to deal with it this way. And it is one of the reasons why we will file a constitutional complaint if this law is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u22	Thank you. That was Radim Fiala with priority rights. It did not raise any factual point. Another with priority right is signed by Marek Výborný. But I don't see him in the hall right now. [[The Excellent Member enters the Chamber and suggests that he is withdrawing the application.]] I see, yes. I don't know if - yes, you are, thank you, Mr. Chairman. So another with priority rights is Mr. Julius Špičák, who comes with priority law with the position of the club of the ANO movement. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u23	Madam President, the Minister is not, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to declare here the position of the ANO Club, which has therefore emerged from our very detailed discussion. [[Turns to stare into government benches]] I'd like to begin by saying...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u24	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask for peace in the Chamber. I'll ask you again, if you need to deal with something you need to communicate, please go to the lobby of the Chamber. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to start my speech with a certain motto that illustrates the situation. Basically, the biological process is so fast, it's way ahead of schedule, let alone legislation. And I have to say that in the field of science and medicine, I have never changed my views as quickly as in the case of a coronavirus pandemic. So, first of all, the characteristics of the pandemic situation, which is of course - its management is conditional on the implementation of appropriate legislation. So the pandemic, still surprising by its unpredictability, by its different course, in relatively close countries, as well as the very different reactions of individual, seemingly similar communities. So the epidemiological characteristics vary in percent in other diseases, but here it's in multiples. Incidence can rise and fall unusually rapidly and predictions are very often not fulfilled. It was considered catastrophic scenarios in the populous cities of India and Africa, but this never happened. In 2020, the IHIS predicted a daily incidence of 100,000, but we were nowhere near that figure. On the contrary, in this autumn the expected development of the incidence was likened to a table mountain, but instead there was a sharp decline. Let us admit that statistics do not always correspond to the intensity of the declared measures and the expected quality of health care. [[14.30 hours]] Now, as we know, the omicron wave has completely dominated with a specific characteristic. It is evident that its contagion is extreme, the spread of avalanche, overcomes the protective barrier of vaccination, the previous infection, the wearing of masks, and, as I see live at my own workplace and in my own family, the course is usually similar to medium or lighter viruses, but in un-vaccinated people, the difficult course and death are possible. The official forecast says that the peak will be reached within two weeks and then a rapid decline will follow. But even with the anticipated omicron dominance, I find a lot of conflicting data in other countries over and over again. So in France, mortality has risen to 300 per day, in Germany it's basically stagnating, in the United States hospitals are overcrowded. In Israel, the weekly increase in mortality was 300 percent, so the incidence is rising in Austria, with constant high mortality rates in Hungary and Greece. Yet, in most countries, it is considered that any restrictive and individual safeguard measure is losing its meaning, and I am therefore largely in agreement with this view. And I must point out that this view has actually been presented for several days and weeks with the most trusted capacities, such as Professor Hostomský. Again, if we have 50,000 positives out of 200,000 samples a day, it means that there are, say, 300,000 positives in the population, and then of course, any trace, any clever quarantine simply loses any justification. However, the argument for caution refers to the fact that our vaccination is still relatively low and does not increase. So I would like to conclude that basically individual restrictive measures are applied in different countries with different intensity, the results do not always correspond to that, and the recommended uniform procedure here, unlike other diseases, does not exist. Recommended uniform procedure. Which is fascinating. There are few and absolutely indisputable constants. One absolute constant is that spreading prevents absolute isolation, which means only China can do, and perhaps only to a certain extent. It's just not possible in our civilizational conditions. And secondly, that vaccination, and this has been repeatedly mentioned, protects against a severe course, and so I stand by it, and against mortality, however, unfortunately, as we find out, from the spread of infection, from reinfection. I'm bohužel so. So the daily vaccination is now about half the maximum, maybe even lower. And we must be aware of one significant phenomenon. On the one hand, new injections of the vaccine are added very slowly, but on the other hand, the sensitivity and risk of reinfection is increased where longer time has passed since the previous vaccination and disease. And here I would like to point out, for example, that the term we called on as collective immunity has completely lost its content in this situation. The content of this term simply does not exist and let us not use this term. I must say that, unfortunately, the current approach of the management of the resort to vaccination must be described as lax. The minister's rhetoric is exciting, but I do not see a systematic campaign, which has been criticized in previous governments. I don't see enough logistical activity that would really lead to those endangered non-vaccine groups, so their vaccination stagnates. And I totally stand by the fact that Novavax just doesn't make it better. The advisory bodies' activities are unclear and uncontrolled. So I believe that the beautiful appeal to the human friendliness unfortunately didn't actually find a response. And I believe that the rhetorically very exclusive rejection of the compulsory vaccination decree in our terms was simply a mistake, it should not have happened, we are simply not Danes, where 90 per cent of people are voluntarily vaccinated. So the government relies on a super-optimistic prediction variant, and that the coronavirus, the pandemic either completely disappears, or that it essentially becomes clinically irrelevant. And otherwise, I must say, in essence, I must draw attention to one phenomenon that has not been mentioned, but must be taken into account. Community human psyche. If we have a violent death of an individual, it's an alarm. If we have the death of 30,000 people a year, or essentially still have the mortality of 50 people a day, it becomes basically an unemotional part of the statistics. And that's just not good. I have to go back historically to the beginning of 2020, when the pandemic was a shock to the whole world and hit it and us completely unprepared. It's logical, we groped, we made mistakes, the statements contradicted, the measures resembling the state of war were unprecedented. And as always, there were those who inevitably abused the confusion. The situation was similar in most countries. And we're not gonna hide that our numbers place us in the most affected countries. But everything was formed from the beginning, there were no drapes, there were no precautions, there were no sanitary stations, there were no scars, there were no tests, there were no vaccines. I must say, however, that the system has developed, it is being worked out, and I think that it is also with the Minister, with whom we cannot agree on many things, so I think that he has taken over the system to a certain extent. There is one factor that I'm essentially pointing out from the beginning, which, in my opinion, plays a fundamental role, and that is that there is essentially no variant of the Kochův Institute. And it can't be set up day by day. This is an institute that has extensive competence, which has a tradition that produces relevant results, and thus equips its representatives with the ultimate authority. We don't have experts, I'll say it with a slight exaggeration, we have influentials. And that's the difference, because, inevitably, the authority is simply lacking institutionally. But this is not the fault of the previous government, it resulted from the reorganisation of the Academy of Sciences and the respective institutes already in the 1990s. Of course, the fight against pandemics has required a number of steps that restrict day-to-day routines, human rights. And it's understandable that there had to be some kind of legal standard here, which was basically how we know the emergency situation. But we see that there were constant, essentially, discussions between the executive and the opposition, and that, in essence, the enforcement of the emergency situation, which basically worked, was very problematic. But there was no other legal instrument. So the political condition with which it was essentially consensual became the creation of a pandemic law, which was simply implemented or approved a year ago. I will try briefly to compare three standards and say that the original pandemic law a year ago was designed under completely different epidemiological and logistical parameters. So the emergency is focused on the crisis for thirty days universally, approved by the House, which is very important. Thirty days is also very important because there is flexibility. And restricts freedom of movement, gathering, business activity, can be ordered by a labor obligation, deploying soldiers, security forces, restricting border passability and guaranteeing compensation for damage, profit. The pandemic law was to comply with a transitional degree, so it was to enable the authorities of the state administration, the Ministry of Health and Hygiene Stations, to respond to pandemics by adopting effective and effective but constitutionally and legally consistent with decisions designated as emergency measures. It gives the state less flexibility, does not restrict movement, does not impose work obligations, does not close borders. The measure is issued by the Ministry of Health after the approval of the Government, sanitary stations in case of regional threat. The measures should be justified. And that's a permanent problem. Of course, it is very difficult to justify explicitly certain measures, so it has been repeatedly interrupted and reviewed preferably by the Supreme Administrative Court. It is therefore possible to limit transport, business, services, sports, assembly, teaching at universities, order testing, order protective equipment. There's only damage, not loss of profit. [[14.40 hours]] And now we have a novel. So she amended the pandemic law. What are the differences? It can therefore be declared not only by the institutions of the Ministry of Health, but it extends these competences to the Ministry, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior. And I ask, what is the coordination of these three units? Who's gonna coordinate this? What happens if the ministry declares it essentially disproportionally? So I see it as a very fundamental problem that should be worked on. Another problem is that, of course, if there is an extension of government bodies that interfere with those hypothetically... or those fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, there can be a request for correction mechanisms that basically lead to a flood of judicial capacity and lead to the fact that, in essence, the correction mechanisms cannot be implemented quickly enough. Another problem, which has essentially been discussed repeatedly, is, of course, the computer science, or the provision of so-called distance communication measures. Theoretical was possible, which, of course, until then, is true that the measures are only declared in writing. So this is essentially a legal approach. It could be imagined that there would be e-mail communication. But long-distance means a phone call or a text message, I find it exploitable and uncontrollable. There's basically no feedback here. In doing so, we impose something on these people here and, of course, on the basis of the behavior of these people, who may not respect it, whether they get it or not, we can sanction them. So this is a matter that really is not well treated, and it is, of course, totally unacceptable for this notification to be delegated, for example, to school directors, employers or any other private person. Another major problem is the problem of isolation of people with positive antigen test, both after testing at work, at school, for 72 hours until negative PCR result. Second, coming from risky areas, again 72 hours. Third, by ordering isolation and quarantine in the form of an order on the spot, not by decision pursuant to § 8a, which may be issued by any undefined authorised person. So, first of all, it's not possible for it to be any undefined person, second of all, the 72-hour interval until the clear verification, so the PCR is too long. Another problem, absolutely fundamental, which has already been mentioned repeatedly, was the validity of the law for an indefinite period of time. Today we know, as far as I know, there will be basically an adjustment, so that this will be done by the end of November. I would strongly recommend that I do not agree with this restriction either, because the development is so dynamic that I would strongly advocate that the deadline be shortened. So I see, as a fundamental weakness, basically, the issues mentioned, that is, the declarations of the measures. It's a lack of coordination, it's a poor definition of self-insulation, its too long from the start of the antigen test to the ID. As another absolutely crucial moment, I see the explicit possibility of a very significant reduction in teaching, including child activity or youth activity after school attendance, which I consider basically the greatest sin that has been occurring here in the last two years. That young generation, the emerging generation, our future, has been hit hugely, we see increased suicide rates, growing obesity, self-harm. We see a request for psychiatric care. So I consider this novel to be a failure, a proportional one. Of course, we are willing to discuss its individual parameters. Unfortunately, the will to debate does not actually exist by stressing the need for a legislative emergency. I have to say that for the club YES and for myself I express my complete disapproval and we cannot support this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u26	Thank you for the position of the ANO movement club, with priority rights Julius Špičák. It raised one point of fact, Mr. Health Minister Válek. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I just wanted to thank you for the constructive, let's just say, criticism. But it must be realized that many of these things were really discussed both in the past and in the current government. They remained there, and as the Member said - through Madam President - I inherited the legislation. This means, for example, the measures in this law were evaluated not only by the Ministry of Education and by experts from the Ministry, but by two ministers, one of them for the government of YES, one of them for the government of this coalition, Minister Plaga. So it's a series of measures. I don't think the measures are wrong in the pandemic law. Yes, I understand that by being an election, by being the end of the year, the beginning and so on, maybe not everyone had enough time to study it, get to know it, see the measures. And that's why I volunteered. So I would very much like to support this, let's stop talking about infectivity, it's really not a term that should be used. Infectivity itself is nonsense. I'm inoculating myself so I don't die, I don't have a serious course. The test is a confirmation that a very short period of time is a small probability that I will infect others, and it is a PCR test. In a number of countries, they reduced their validity just in response to the omicron to 48 hours, and that has to be said, 48 hours, was 72, now 48. This means where PCR is used, the time is reduced to 48 hours, which I consider practically a big problem, and I believe that the amendment and some of the modifications that we have put into this pandemic law reflect these things as well. So much for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u28	Minister, thank you for your time. No one else, with a factual point of view, is to be reported, which is why at this moment we have the last priority right, namely the Vice-President of the ODS Membership Eva Decroix. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at least the ones you're watching here. Please allow me to present to you today an amendment, on behalf of myself, on behalf of the ODS Club, on behalf of KDU, STAN and Pirates. This is an amendment that we have already discussed here in the proceedings, which has been prepared in very detailed terms, after consultation with experts as well as with legislation, as well as across government and ministries. This is a proposal that responds in particular to the legislative aspect of the whole thing, that is, above all, to the individual points that have been accused of protecting citizens and from the point of view of the professional legal public. The first point, which we considered important to mention, has already been raised here, is not part of our amendment. This is about the effectiveness, this point has been loaded in the framework of the amendment of the Health Committee. Therefore, please allow me to present the other points recorded in writing in the system under number 297, the first important point being the arrangements for emergency measures relating to public actions. We are adapting the proposal for a pandemic law so that public actions can be reduced, but not completely banned. At the same time, we regulate the condition of cumulation of natural persons, not only as regards one place, but also as regards one time. This means cumulation in one place and in one time is the condition for limiting public action. The same condition shall apply to meetings and actions of public authorities. Here, too, we remove the possibility from the overall ban, there is only the possibility to limit, of course, if conditions are met. A very important second point in our amendment is the adjustment of the so-called SMS quarantine. It is something that has been very much discussed in the last few days, repeated here by the opposition and controversial, criticized. Please, we maintain the possibility of ordering isolation or quarantine measures by oral, written or by means of remote communication, including the SMS. Please don't limit yourself to that text. There are repeatedly discussions about what happens when someone doesn't have a phone. I repeat, it is important that it is possible to use technical means that speed up communication, and this is not exclusively about SMS. [[14.50 hours]] Here I will also partially quote the statement of the Minister for Legislation and the President of the Legislative Government of 31 January 2022, which was sent to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and which was delivered to me by the President's office. And the President of the Legislative Government, and I quote, states that the purpose of the proposed provision is, above all, to provide a legal basis for the simplest possible and least formalised regulation of quarantine and isolation, since the number of times from which these isolations or quarantines must be ordered cannot be followed by simplified administrative procedures. [[numbers]] Here I would just like to point out that this is the practice now. It's nothing. We're not putting in any news. In principle, we are simply regulating practice, which means that we are increasing the protection of the population, because today's practice has in no way been legally grasped. At the same time, I would also like to point out, because this was also mentioned in some criticisms that, according to the President of the Legislative Council of the Government from the same date, this general regulation, which is now valid, provides sufficient protection of personal data without any further processing of personal data into the law of the pandemic, is necessary. But - given the expert discussion, given the comments made by some lawyers, even in view of our work as legislators within the Chamber of Deputies, we see that some comments regarding the possibility of identifying and verifying the author of the report in the case of SMS quarantine could have been challenged in some way, and above all it was a kind of negative signal to the public that these SMS reports could be questioned, which is not the purpose. So the Ministry of Health, within the framework of our amendment and our amendment, is empowered to do so, that is, it is directly incorporated into the law, to establish the mandatory requirements of this so-called decree, and forgive me for the folk term, SMS quarantine. The purpose of this is to ensure that the notification of the isolation regulation or quarantine measure contains a so-called unique code whereby it can be verified that the author of the report is a regional sanitation station and that the notification is addressed only to you and not to anyone else. There. At the same time, I merely point out that this is something that we discussed with the Ministry of Health, which means that we know that this is technically possible and feasible in a short time. Already in the original proposal of the pandemic law, the right to object to the regulation of quarantine or isolation was introduced within three working days. We maintain this, but at the same time we respond to a relatively natural need for a time limit within which such an objection will be resolved. This means that we are setting a period of three working days for the public health authority to decide or to notify its examination of this objection. And the important thing is that if he fails to do so, he will not be able to announce his decision to the person who submitted the objection, so isolation or quarantine is considered to be indisputable, the quarantine and isolation are considered terminated. That's important. That means, in principle, we can be in the horizons of three to six days. This means, in a fundamental way, we are strengthening, and I would really like to point out here, if it is constantly discussed that the emergency situation is a more favourable solution, so at least it is not from this point of view, because we would still be forced, if the pandemic were to deteriorate in any way, to approach the notification in this way, but would not be there to protect individual rights. It's clear here. If the Office makes a mistake, you basically have three days, and you have a clear deadline for how to defend yourself. The last important point, I consider it important symbolically, politically, but also for citizens, and that is the amount of fines. Fines under the pandemic law in accordance with the whole concept of the pandemic law should be primarily preventive. The purpose is not to be sanctioned and never has been. The original amount of the fines was based on the same amounts as those laid down in the Public Health Act. The logic, which, of course, is in the Public Health Act, is slightly different, is stricter. The pandemic standard should be, I dare use the word soft, it should be softer and it should be especially protective. That means we can't release the fines completely and completely. We are basically, every legislation within the first year of law we know that every standard must have a penalty mechanism. But in order for it to be appropriate, we think it's enough if the fines are reduced by 80 percent. This means that the proposed amount of fines corresponds to 20 per cent, which is the amount corresponding to the higher rate of fines. These are not the amounts that are subsequently deposited in the course of the infringement proceedings. We know that there is no reason to approach this highest rate. There. These are, please, the points contained in Amendment 297. At the same time, please allow me to put forward a second amendment, which is recorded in the system under 317, which I will only allow myself to justify very briefly. This is an amendment by which we issue the authorisation of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, because, following consultation with the Ministry, we consider that the authorisation that these ministries already have on the basis of the Public Health Act should be sufficient and there is no reason to regulate them separately. There. At the same time, I will be able to sign up to these two amendments in a detailed debate. But since I am going to submit a note, I will allow myself to read these amendments in a detailed debate by my colleague Karel Haas, who is also the author of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u30	Madam, thank you for your clarification. Thank you for your performance. I was just going to call on you to have the debate in detail, so thank you, registered who will bring it up, and then I will pass on the chair to the meeting. Your speech raised one factual point with which Mrs Karla Maříková is reporting. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u31	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd have a few questions for my previous speaker, through you. How are you gonna deal with it when someone says he didn't get the text or he's gonna turn his phone off? Or we know that old people often have trouble accepting texts at all. How is that even gonna prove in practice? I'd really like to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u32	Thank you for keeping time. No one else is checking in, so... Madam Vice-President wants to get out. Madam Vice-President, with priority rights, without limitation of time, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u33	I'll be very short. I'd just consider it polite not to leave any questions unanswered. It is precisely because not all questions can be resolved, and it is not even appropriate to address them in the law, that is why the legal mandate for the Ministry, which has these individual parameters of provableness, identifiableity, verification of the author's notification, is inserted into the law, and again, it is not just about SMS messages. Those regulations or, respectively, notifications of isolation or quarantine may also be made orally through other means of communication. If, in practice, the text has proved to be the most practical way of communication, then of course, it will continue to be used, but thanks to the unique identification code, and the Ministry of Health will be working on it, but I am not such a technician, but it is necessary that these techniques allow to verify whether the code has been clicked, it has not been clicked and so on. This means that this is no longer a job here, it is a question of technical nature that will be addressed by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. At this point, I have a point of fact from Mr Karel Haas. So I'll ask him to come to the speaker's desk. And before he starts talking, I'd like to read the apologies, Mr. Ambassador. Mr SPD President apologizes within 17 hours, Mrs Jana Pastuchová cancels her apology, was apologized today within 17 hours, and I also have an apology from Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka, today from 14:00 to 18:00 for work reasons. So it was an apology. And with a point of fact, Mr Karel Haas. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u35	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, just a quick deed for a perfectly legitimate and correct question by you, Mrs Maříková. In the explanatory memorandum, and the explanatory memorandum is a key element of any law, I believe that the majority of the lawyers in this hall are also mentioned - and now I say it in quotation marks - SMS quarantine or isolation regulation clear three rules: firstly, that the whole procedure set by the Ministry in a possible implementing decree must comply with generally binding electronic communication legislation, must comply with generally binding data protection regulations and must be consistent with a caselaw that is very consistent, very stable, delivery of the will of public authorities towards private natural and legal persons. So much for a supplement for a colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Have a good afternoon. Mrs Karla Maříková has made a point of fact. Madam, hold on one moment... Please, you can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u37	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I just wanted you to specify, but since you didn't answer, the minister came (?), I thank him very much for that, he knew the answer compared to you, which is sad when you put it that you don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u38	Yes, thank you, Madame. And now she has signed up for the debate with the priority right of Vice-President Jana Vildumetzová Mračková. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u39	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, Members of the Government, I would like to speak once more, so now in the general debate, about the law. And since I was chairing, I would like to respond in my speech to some of my previous speakers, first of all to the Minister of Health, Mr Vlastimil Válek. I appreciate her responding to the questions. And I have to say that when he was performing here and talking about the fact that the third dose of vaccination is very important, he also said that really, based on the analysis and all the statistics, people don't usually have the hard course, so I'd like to ask the Minister why we're so bad about the third dose of vaccination? I'd like to ask him why we're inoculating so little at this point. Why did we inoculate 110,000 people a day, so why did we inoculate 30,000 yesterday, for example? Then I would like to ask him why the Czech Republic is still standing on the number of vaccinations that he has 18+ 74 % vaccinated? And if we look at those western countries, because they got to 85-90 percent, that's why they're relaxing. And now the most important number - and I'm going to compare it to Denmark because I looked up the statistics - we as the Czech Republic have 34 percent in the third dose, and they have 60 percent. I'd like to ask you what we're doing to get people vaccinated with a third dose when you said it's protecting these people. That's right. If we don't have anything else to fight the pandemic at the moment, then I'd like to know what it's doing for it and why it's so low compared to, for example, Denmark, which I've mentioned here at this time. The second question or the second reaction would be to the Vice-President, but it is not a question, but rather a sigh that happened to me this week, or Monday, at the regional council of the Karlovy Vary Region and is also very connected with the pandemic, and I would like to introduce you to it. Now that we've approved the eRecipe, we know what it's done, and today we can't imagine life without it, even without an e-Clerk and other things. So it's great that we've got this, that we've somehow introduced it here, and we've started to make a lot more use of it in the pandemic. And when the pandemic came, people got quarantined, for example, how people would vote. We've worked that out, and we've approved it here. But we had to deal with the negotiations. Here in the Chamber of Deputies, we deal with it by pairing up, we make a deal in some way. But we also have the county and city council. And that had to be resolved in some way, so it was resolved by the law that it would be possible to join online, and it gives clear logic: when a person is quarantined, so let him be allowed to do so, there are not as many representatives as there are Members here. Well, here's what didn't happen. In those regional councils where, for example, you have a 45-member council in the Karlovy Vary Region, it is not like in the Chamber of Deputies that you need the approval of an absolute majority of Members present on a bill, but you always need the majority there. And most of it has a coalition. And the opposition is an important role there, because if the MPs don't come, then the coalition, along with the opposition, must communicate and seek solutions. So it happened in my opinion that this started to be abused and the council came, an extraordinary council was convened, and at the beginning it was voted that even though they weren't quarantined, they could have been logged online, and at that moment they said "we don't want a program," and that was the end of the council. Well, the climax was on Monday when the new Rules of Procedure were tabled - and I hear that this is happening in most regions, that they will be treated in the Rules of Procedure, for example, that the representative can apologize for work or other serious reasons. And at that point, I say that if we go to the future on this path, we are practically thwarting the principles of representative democracy. I'm sorry, but that's when the opposition's role is zero. In a way, at that point, you will have no role at all, and I think that this is not the way, and that we should also deal with this problem, because the fact that you are in the coalition today, you are in opposition, in two years it can be completely different. And I think if a person is a representative, he's supposed to go to those councils, he's supposed to communicate there, he's supposed to be presentable, he's supposed to listen to the problems, he's supposed to discuss them. It's clear that if he's quarantined, in isolation, it's clear that he should be allowed the online transmission. So this is my second point, as it was said here, a meeting of public authorities, a ban, a restriction, so I just wanted to tell you one thing that I'm definitely going to do, I'm going to consult with the Ministry of the Interior, or I'm going to think and work on some proposal that I would possibly put forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. And now Minister Válek has signed up with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, by your help, honourable Member, I will try to answer, explain, and then lighten up a little bit. First of all, I apologize for the lowdown. The answer to the vaccination. Then we have two options. We can convince - and we are now deliberately inviting, information that is not vaccinated, we are sending to the attending doctors, we are still increasing the campaign. Now we're waiting for a growing interest in Novavax, which won't be right away. Another reason. When the omicron wave peaks, we have to realize that a lot of these people are positive, and if they have a PCR test positive, they automatically appear in the certificate that they are six months with a certificate that is actually exposed to infectivity. But it is not infectivity, I, through Madam President, am very sorry to Mr Špičák, and I also use it inappropriately. I mean, they have a six-month certificate. And it happens in all countries where it is omicron, that when it started there omicron and hugely began to spread between populations, they have positively tested, which are symptomsless, with PCR test positive, so their interest in vaccination decreases. [[15.10 hours]] We could talk about how the launch position was six months ago, three quarters of a year ago, how we were after six months, how they were in Denmark and us. But I think it's irrelevant. And I would never dare say how I would have acted if I was a minister two years ago and so on. That would be silly to be downplaying this here. The fact is, I've been Minister of Health for a month, well, it's been a little longer than a month, I feel like I've been Minister of Health for five years, but technically we've given almost a million third doses that month, which means the number is huge. Of course, it is possible to order compulsory vaccination. But let's see what happens in countries where compulsory vaccinations are ordered. Those countries are essentially two and a half, respectively. In Austria, vaccination is compulsory. Their numbers are growing brutally. They're much worse than ours, and they grow up very fast. That's the first thing. I'm not saying it has to do with compulsory vaccination. But in order to carry out the compulsory vaccination, they have to give relatively hard fines. And even now the debate begins that they're going to be pulled off their wages. I don't know if there's any party willing to promote this. In Germany, the situation is very similar. I understand that compulsory vaccination in children works. That's where WHO ordered it. WHO clearly defined why this is appropriate. And we could discuss this professionally for a very long time not only in this forum. The situation is different for adults. She's very complicated. And, yes, I'd like us all to work together to convince citizens to get vaccinated. By going over the omicron, we're not off the hook. Certificates continue to be valid throughout the world. There could be another wave in the fall. But what we should change in order to make the resolution of crisis situations a systemic solution to a very serious, dangerous, deadly disease that we already know is that it moves in waves, that the waves copy the flu waves, we know what prevention is, we know what we can use as a barrier to serious progress, and now we need to expand the information in some way. Plus, I think since the companies are working on a selective omicron vaccine, and the vaccine will be here in a few months, maybe the next dose would be more favorable with an omicron. That means there's a lot of factors. Novavax is an excellent vaccine where the company says so far it should be a two-dose schedule. There are a number of variables. And I would like to inform you that I am trying to discuss this within the framework of our future Presidency within the European Union with colleagues from France and Sweden. I would like to unite that approach, because we will have to discuss in Europe at all, what to do with certificates. And my attitude is, in fact, far more professional than political. I think that we need to start treating this disease a lot more as a serious disease and not as a policy. The second thing about these councils, thank you very much for that, and we will have to bear that in mind if the honourable Chamber of Deputies approves this law. If the amendment is approved by the Senate, it will probably be temporary. And I said here, by June, I want to put forward a law that will cover all epidemics, pandemics, will be part of the amendment that the previous ministry has been working on, but it hasn't moved so far for various objective reasons to move forward. And that's where I'm gonna have to remember this. And now for the downside, that's why I took the priority right, because I wouldn't be able to do that in two minutes. It occurred to me when I was sitting like that, I was a deputy, I was a representative in Líšně. The plant is a huge city where Brno is. Greetings to Líšín. [[Laughs of several Members.]] I think there is also a huge city near Prague. Isn't that right? [[Affirmative response from the O.R.]] Very good. We're in Líšen. I'm never gonna say it that way again. And for some incomprehensible reason, the online council was in Líšen. But we had online scientific advice. If Honorabilis had been here, through Madam President, Mr Vondrák, he would have confirmed that even the scientific councils of universities were online. And oddly enough, we voted on quite serious issues, budgets, docentures, professorships. And this problem didn't happen. On the contrary, we had a better turnout because those who were from afar joined online like this and didn't have a problem with participation. And now for the lowdown. I apologize to everyone for that. The question is whether we should start debating the difference between the Scientific Council and the D.A. that the model works on the Scientific Council and not in the D.A. Maybe it wouldn't be uninteresting to try to figure out how it's different. And I'm so sorry about that. But two days... I had to say something that would loosen me up a little bit. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your performance. Your speech raised a factual remark by Vice-President Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u43	Thank you for the word on the point of fact. The difference between the Scientific Council and the Council is that, in my opinion, the council has opposition and coalition. I don't know if scientific advice? I've never been a member of the Scientific Council. But the role of the opposition and the coalition is clear in the council. And I'm sure we'll sit down. I didn't expect you to answer that, Minister. But I really appreciate you getting into this, too. But more importantly, as you were talking about those third doses and the vaccination, I'd be fine if you told me three steps that you're doing to promote vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Now, with a point of fact, the Minister is reporting. Or with priority rights? [[With priority rights.]] May I give the Minister the floor, Mr. Ambassador? [[No.]] There you go. First of all, Mr Václav Král came forward and then it is his turn with the de facto Minister Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I think the Minister will answer my remark together. Based on what you have just said here, I think it would also be good to calm the situation, and also given that the Prime Minister, following the abolition of the compulsory vaccination decree, has announced that our government and this House hopefully do not want to polarize society, so that it can no longer be heard here, since it can no longer be in the pandemic law or in the amendment that I have tried to formulate in some way that the government and, if so, the House will not push any form of compulsory vaccination and that the principle of voluntaryity will be preserved there. So if you were to declare it here in the debate right now, I think everyone would calm down significantly, and I could support this law too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with a point of fact, Minister Válek will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u47	It's the least I can do. I do not see the least reason why the government should push for mandatory vaccinations, because those countries that did so had a very complicated situation accompanied by a number of other conventions. I generally believe that the European Union will have to agree on how to continue vaccination against cod. But this isn't a topic that we should be dealing with here right now. And I will. The first are targeted invitation texts, which receive at the same time the one that should receive the third dose, and his attending doctor's way of insurance. And here it is extremely important to thank Senator Kraus, my colleague Kraus. We're sending a targeted letter to both the doctor and the patient. And now the new action we're planning with the task force, which includes the lady, without even knowing it, but now I'm going to tell her, Vice-President of the Senate, through you, Madame, when we have a link to the mayor and we can send those mayors information. Now we still want to inform the mayors about where their closest doctors are, for example, the possibility of us improving our availability. And we want to use it to target the vaccination information, where the vaccination center will be, where they can go, what vaccines are available. So we're also voting for this trip now. That's the first step. And those are the three answers. We'll continue with this. We will continue to do so as soon as the omicron wave ends, because we must realise that, of course, we are planning as much freedom as possible within a republic that will still be sufficient to protect citizens. I'll never suggest anything else. But in the surrounding countries, as I read it, there are relatively strict rules. And I would very much hate for it to happen that someone won't be able to go on vacation to Croatia because they won't have an invalid certificate. That is why we are also preparing a clear plan and strategy for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u48	Thank you for keeping time. We have therefore exhausted all the factual points, and before I give the floor to Mr Nacher, I will read the apology. Madam Secretary Helena Langšádlová apologizes for today's work-related meeting. And now, Mr Patrik Nacher will appear. Yes, he's the first duly logged in to perform. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u49	Thank you. I finally heard a good speech from the O.R., so it could be heard on the microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, yes, it is true, I am the first duly registered without prior rights after twenty-nine and a half hours, so I think it's a record. That's the first thing. Second, just a note in front of the line. I think that in the last twenty-nine-and-a-half hours, we've had a proper waterfall here, so I'm assuming that the 130 Members who have been here will be in good health in any variant that comes here. Which brings me to what these people often write about the number of Members in the Chamber. They don't know it, I keep writing it, so I'll take this opportunity to say that the coalition members, the opposition are paired up, especially those who are sick are quarantined or isolated, that's the number. Not that they weren't here, they were somewhere else, so just one of the coalitions, one of the opposition, that covid or quarantine doesn't even avoid the Members. So much for explaining it because nobody said it on the microphone. I've divided my contribution into four parts. I'm not gonna read it completely again except for the quote. Who would like to know how we don't trust each other at the beginning, coalitions, oppositions, so I can see that I have some comments there, I crossed something out when I listened to the amendment by the Vice-President of the ODS Club. I have divided it into such parts, arguments logical, political, legal and business, when this government is already such a pro-business, right-wing and so on. Before that, when the Minister here says that he has funny inserts, I would also like to take one side of what interests me when the Vice-President of the ODS has read the amendments here, so after she's finished, she gets applause. I would almost ask as Minister of Industry when we had the government's trust here, whether it was a gentleman's applause or a Frenetic applause. It seemed absurd to me, I'm sorry, a little bit in the fact that we are discussing a matter that will limit the freedoms of citizens in the Czech Republic, we are discussing something that the current coalition, the former opposition, has often acted in the last parliamentary term, which is until the end of November. We are discussing something here in a state of legislative emergency, which means that Members have limited opportunities to enter. And yet, as a government, you will put here a proposal that you will first enrich with amendments and then further amendments directly to plenary, which is proof that it is simply not ready, that it is, and that it deserves first, second, third reading. Don't be mad at me, be fair. I'm not saying it badly, I'm just saying it based on facts. This means that after here - and I am glad for the softening in terms of content, but in terms of that principle, you will come here with a proposal, then you will read your own amendments and applaud. Do you understand the absurdity? Don't be mad at me, I had to mention it here, however glad I am that you're softening it up, and then I'll get to it. First, the logic of the view. The logical one comes out with me, the ones you know me, I'm on the numbers, I've already indicated it in the previous point whether we're in a state of legislative emergency or not, so I'm gonna be more detailed now. So the situation of February 26, 2021, the approval of the original pandemic law, and today we are - I have here written in notes 1. Two, we're already two. 2. 2022 - so there were 623,000 doses at the time, which is 6,7 percent of people over 12 years of age. Both doses were 232,000, that's 2.5 percent, that's what I'm talking about. Today, on the other hand, he has one dose, it's evolving, I'm sorry, I was preparing it yesterday, two days ago, so I hope you won't catch me at the word, 6 924,000, which is 74.2, and two doses of 6,780,000, which is 72.6%. That means, like I said before, vaccination is thirty times that. That's context, pandemic law 2021, 2022. Hospital capacity. Before that, 7 176 patients, now 2.066, I wasn't looking right now, maybe it grew in the meantime, as this meeting lasts for almost 30 hours. In a serious state, it's even more obvious, the situation that's different. Before that it was 1,531 patients, now it's 181, that's eight and a half times less. On the other hand, positive tests - I'm not going to repeat the numbers here - if I took the one yesterday, which is almost 67,000 versus 14,000, it's four times more. This means, in other words, even though four times more positive tests, and as my colleague Špičák said here, the question is, how many are really positives in society, it can be multiple than that, so even though fourfold more officially positive tests, as well as the number of patients, the number of people in hospitals in serious condition is eight times lower, so if it is very difficult that vaccination, vaccination will dampen it, it will end, however I welcome it, that - and here I differ with some of my colleagues - it is not mandatory vaccination, and I am consistent. [[is]] So I ask - and this is my first question to the Minister, I always warn him, I have the questions specifically underlined by the blue wave to raise the voice a little - why use the same mechanism, the same methods and the same instrument, that means the pandemic law when the situations are completely different. The second question - and I had it before - why deal with it in a state of legislative emergency, where it is clearly said that this is in the event of exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the state is threatened with significant economic damage, but even in those statements in the media, we are not in that situation right now. We're not. When I add to that the amendments that you put here in two stages, of course, the first within the committee, and the second was loaded a while ago, it is obvious that this is simply not part of the legislative emergency. I'll give another example to be understood. It's not a legislative emergency, but it's an accelerated procedure of 90. I'm assuming that with colleagues, Marek Výborný, we can arrange for some Graceful Summer 2, and until we can arrange for it to be, as they say, completely chatted to the last detail, we can't come here in the context of Section 90, because someone will always have an appetite to put in an amendment and somehow improve it. Always. And if this is going to be a quick incision that will help debtors, then we have to agree on it and then put it here after the general agreement. In this case, it's about people who have executions - it's about everyone here. So either here is that until the government is 100% done, it doesn't come here because you criticized it in the previous governments, this, or put it in the classic three readings, and the experts on the health committee are going to read the stuff that Eva Decroix read here. But one or the other procedure. But you're gonna put it here, you're gonna speed things up here, not to mention, in the meantime, we've all read the Supreme Administrative Court's decision, and the Minister said that the decision is exactly why the pandemic law needs to be amended. I'd say the other way around that this decision, on the other hand, is proof of why not accept these things at this point in time and in this form. Especially when the amendments here are sewn by a really hot needle and you have no feedback. Which I do not want to underestimate the quality of the legislative work of two colleagues from ODS, but you do not have feedback that it is okay. [[15.30 hours]] That means, we, on the day the Supreme Administrative Court determines some decision that it is illegal for this to be an unlawful intervention, so we here, as a speedster, approve something that can limit citizens until the end of November of this year. And that, too, is actually one of the amendments, because it was not originally there. Then you must feel that this cannot be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. Now I'll take the political view. You know very well, colleagues who have been here, that the pandemic law is actually a compromise. The compromise that came out here because the emergency situation didn't extend, and we all seem to remember it somehow. The government wanted an emergency, the opposition didn't want it, then the authorities came in and they didn't want it, and the senators did. So actually everyone wanted something different, and the result was the pandemic law. Well, the pandemic law is actually of its kind, I would call it, an emergency, but with an open end, now closed by the end of November. I don't see it, and I'd like to ask the Minister, a big difference. If he's what, I'd like to see him between the emergency and the emergency measures. Notaben, as has already been said here at night, if I have listened correctly, the emergency situation is enshrined in the constitutional law, while the state of the pandemic emergency with the same consequences for those people has no such support. But the reason I'm saying this here is because I remember every day in the emergency room being liked here. If it's extended by 30 days, 20 days, 15. If you extend it by 12 days, we'll put the votes on it, but not at 20, not at 30. And all of a sudden, we're gonna raise our hand here that it's gonna be until the end of November. Do you understand? I don't want to repeat the numbers from the beginning. They're intersecting the arguments. The numbers I said at the beginning here are clearly, noticeably, graspably better. But while before that, when she was worse, there was a lot of talk for days about how long the emergency would take, while now that they're better, we're gonna take action here by the end of November. When you hear it like that, it doesn't make sense. I'd call it a blank check. And now I'm gonna ask the Minister because you're saying it's prevention. That it's prevention. So I want to ask, what if something happens in that fall wave that starts threatening us from December 1st? And all of a sudden you don't have it there? So that would be good... or you've got something, so say it, that's what this debate is about, it's legitimate questions, it's nothing offensive. I am also getting to what I have already said with amendments. I welcome the fact that Eva Decroix here has actually softened, as I understand it, softened the number of accumulations of people, I wrote text messages, quarantined that it is not exclusive, lower fines. The Home Office, the DOD I wanted to talk to you about, isn't there anymore. See, I'm not reading it, so I'm gonna cross it off normally, and with this amendment, you saved yourself two minutes of my speech. But I would ask with a certain exaggeration here again, I will follow up with the Minister - where is Minister Šalomoun when one needs him most? I know, he's paired up, it's a rhetorical question, I've already written it on social media, he's quarantined. But that's a rhetorical question. I'm calling him here to step in for the second time. When you wanted to freeze salaries, he was the one who said in the media that he thought it was probably unconstitutional. And you have it there for the legislative purity. And now you're going to put in here a proposal that you want to discuss so quickly, and on Monday you're going to read the first amendments and Wednesday the second. So I'd like to ask him, it's a rhetorical question, he's not here, but maybe the Minister will answer me if this is the quality of the legislative work that this government has about one extra minister, as Jakub Michálek has justified several times here. So I'd be quite interested in your opinion when the Minister gets better, which I wish he could explain. I would like to ask why, in a state of legislative emergency, we approve of such robust interventions in rights and freedoms, but at the same time you say repeatedly that this is about prevention? What if there was a wave? However, you are presenting a pandemic law that concerns one particular pandemic in which we are now. By the way, I found in the explanatory note that it's still referring to the delta variant, I feel like someone here said that, not the omicron. It's there, it's there, it's referring to some stuff from April last year. At the same time, Minister Válek says he plans to release, abolish all measures. I quote: The measure will ease as of 1 March if the epidemic develops well. For me: it is not possible to have restrictions on fundamental human rights and freedoms as if in reserve. It's just not possible! That's what it takes to get an emergency, because he's got this thing that the government can only order it for 30 days, and then they have to ask for it from the Chamber of Deputies. While you're here today to approve, by the end of November, we as legislators won't do anything about it. That's the obvious difference. I've noticed somewhere, I don't know if it's right or wrong, so I'm sorry it's like a tank that's hidden in our garage. We'll have a tank hidden in the garage that maybe there'll be a wave in the fall. I'd almost say based on the court's statements, he's rusty in the meantime. So then you go out with that tank, and then he'll be rusty, old, and still it won't work. Not to mention, then, that the lawsuit should be proportional in some way. These interventions should be appropriate, proportionate, which, in turn, when I return to those numbers, I think it is not in relation to that, however much better than it was an hour ago before we learned the amendments. That's why I'm glad my colleague got off in front of me, at least I can respond in some way. Now I'll take the legal look. I've already started it a little bit. I will take a quote from the constitutional lawyer Jan Wintr, for example, that the proposal contains several problematic points. I'm kind of wondering if you've consulted this, the amendments and the whole performance, the constitutional lawyers and the other lawyers, when it comes to the administrative court. For example, it has a question in the case of a provision which allows a general emergency measure to provide for a kind of self-carantine for all people who have a positive antigen test. Such a rapid intervention in personal freedom should be decided individually, not by a general decision of officials. And now a quote: It needs to be perceived that this is an extraordinary instrument for an extraordinary situation. I'll go back to the numbers I said at the beginning. The situation isn't extraordinary, I'm going to repeat that we're gradually getting all the news about how it's released in Denmark, loosened up here in Norway. We're running a little late, but it's obviously headed towards the release. By the way, by the way, I'm going to turn away from the quote, and it was surprising that the Minister in his opening speech was actually saying here where everything is even more stringent than in the Czech Republic. But I remember when he was here as an opposition MP, and I often sympathized with him in this, so he said, stressing why we are tougher on some things and that it is softer somewhere else. That's interesting, like the other point of view. I understand him because before you were in opposition, now you have the responsibility, but it's worth reminding. [[15.40 hours]] Therefore, this emergency measure, which is constitutionally bordering and is admissible only because it responds to an emergency situation, should be of limited validity. If the time limitation has suddenly disappeared and the law is to apply forever, it doesn't apply anymore, this statement, it sends out an unhappy signal, in my view and by the end of November it's long enough that something we perceive as an exceptional condition is to become a new norm. Paragraph 2 (2) (b). (u) - a new institute of the order of a natural person is introduced. The purpose of this supplement is to circumvent the existing regulation under the Public Health Protection Act, which I will return to, and the Administrative Code, when restricting a natural person to his fundamental human rights and freedoms is only permitted by a decision in administrative proceedings. In practice, therefore, this may mean that not the law or the decision of a public authority, but a sort of act, in this case, of texting, although now we have heard that it will be optional, the delivery of those texts will restrict a person to his rights. So does the new § 8a. I haven't exactly noticed where the amendments are going, which the Vice-President here has read, which reminds me, by the way - are we going to have some inter-time, is there going to be some break between readings so that we can at least read the amendments, since we are already approving these restrictive things here? Because so far I have here and I'm commenting on what I've made purely notes, not what I've seen written. So there will be regulations, measures, isolation, quarantines, verbally, written by means of remote communication. That's what we've been told. I'm not gonna say it again. In summary, from the legal point of view, from the lawyers, the amendment introduces new areas of regulation, and very few in a vague manner, and extends the existing ones. It's narrowing down somewhere, a little bit. On the contrary, legal certainty is significantly reduced by its newly introduced vague wordings for the future. It was also said here that without the pandemic law, the measure would end. But here I would say that this is not true, because most of these emergency measures are issued with reference to the Public Health Act as well. Here I will quote: "A number of measures that the Minister is talking about, if they are well declared, can be dealt with under the Health Protection Act. It's really, I don't like using that word, a blank check that allows the government to change some behavioral parameters from one hour to the next, but those behavior parameters relate to millions of people living in the Czech Republic." And now surprising - do you know who that quote is? That's Ivan Bartoš's quote from the debate on extending the emergency situation. But she's perfectly suited to the situation at the moment. This means that a number of matters are referred to the Public Health Act. It's been paid before, it's true now. And as I said, we have an emergency institute here, where the limit is 30 days, and by the intervention of the Chamber of Deputies, it's a kind of correction that can't be dealt with indefinitely. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let me take one last look at the business. Since you're the right-wing government to support the entrepreneurs that the previous government has been hurting, I'm going to tell you something about this. From the point of view of entrepreneurs, this is a non-systemic intervention in business for the following reasons: The Ministry of Health and Regional Hygiene Stations should be able to limit virtually all business, education and leisure activities. A substantial restriction on business could be imposed at a distance, even by a poorly specified person. The affected business entities would be difficult or significantly restricted to the possibility of judicial review of the regulation and decision issued. Entrepreneurs would have no guarantee of compensation for the actual damage that could result from the alleged restrictions. Measures restricting business could be implemented in the future at any time, i.e. until that date on 30 November, on mere suspicion that there is a pandemic. And a number of individuals could, on a vague basis, issue regulations that forbid people to be in contact with each other. Let me sum it up. Under the pretext of combating covid, legislation is adopted that disproportionately strengthens state power, and officials would be given an uncontrollable authority that does not belong to them. And do you know why I've been looking at that paper for so long? I'll surprise you. Those aren't my words. I'm quoting again. And he's not an YES or a SPD MP. I have quoted from the press release by Radomil Bábek, Chairman of the Business Union Committee, who criticized the last government very much for applauding the opposition, and these are his words. That is not an YES Member, a YES supporter. That's a representative of businessmen who makes it very clear. So I'd like to ask the Minister politely how he would... Bábek. [[Messenger. - Granny.]] And what did I say? Radomil Bábek. So I'd like to ask you how he would respond to those complaints from the business environment. Whether what I read here is true or not. And as I'm saying, those weren't my words, but I deliberately used the words of someone else here who always criticized the government of the YES movement, but I told you after. Sum of the sum, why do I think the common process of all sides is important, not rolling in the House? Because the biggest problem in this country is that people's confidence in these measures is falling rapidly. It's often bowed down. People's trust is crucial, you say all of you, in order to know why these measures are important, that they should follow them and that it is up to them too, on their responsibility. But with the length of the pandemic, of course, fatigue is growing from all the constraints, and a huge number of people are also experiencing economic survival. And this sum of sum, I didn't say that again, and I looked it up again in your performances, those are literally the words of Vít Rakušan. So I took them here like this, I used them because I agree with them. That's what you said before. I will read it again, the one sentence: Sum of the sum, why, in my opinion, is the common practice of all parties in the House important? Because the biggest problem is that people's trust is falling rapidly. And that's not happening here today. These are the words of Vít Rakušan. Because we're gonna take a quarter of a year here, but it's just gonna be a coalition vote versus the opposition. It won't be a common process that you called for, these are real quotes. I looked it up, I worked my ass off on purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. I'm glad I got the first word after almost 30 hours. I'd be very happy to have the Minister answer those questions. It's not just my questions, it's my questions of people who write to all of us, or especially businessmen, and that the Minister thinks of this as a matter of fact. When else are we supposed to talk about this other than right now? Thank you again for your attention and have a nice rest of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr Member, for your speech, which raised three factual points, Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, and then Mr Karel Haas, and then the Minister will speak with priority rights. And before I give you my word, Madame, I will allow myself to read my apologies. Mr Julius Špičák apologizes from 15.20 until the end of the day and Vice-President Jana Mračková Vildumetzová today from 15.30 to the end of the day for working and family reasons. And now please, Madame, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u51	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Here, my previous speaker, Mr Nacher, mentioned the words that Minister Válek said today, it was about one hour to decide the Supreme Administrative Court. The decision of the administrative court is precisely the reason why the pandemic law needs to be amended. If he were to pay today, this measure, which is without doubt correct, would be unassailable, said the Minister. The court ruled that, as has been said here, it has no support in the law. But Judge Mikeš also said that the aim of the measure cannot be to force people into vaccination. And I wonder where in the amendment, in the law, it's got its back. I didn't find out. We've been talking to our colleagues here, and we haven't figured it out. So I don't know if the Minister will link it to those answers for Mr Nacher's Member, or if someone else will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u52	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will now speak with a factual remark and prepare Mr Karel Haas. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u53	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Bábek is a Trikolóra, in case you're wondering. This has nothing to do with you. I was surprised by my colleague Nacher, who always speaks very precisely, based on real facts and is pleased to listen to him. So today he spoke something so horrible that I couldn't even imagine. Mr. Colleague, it's not a game, man. I'm sorry. [[President: Through the President, Mr Member.]] It's not about throwing dice and picking up some dick. It's a decision about people's fates. In that medicine, you have to learn that there are some things that you may not like, but that it is simply not acceptable for you to proceed in such a way that you do not prevent it from minimizing possible damage to the patient to minimize the number of deceased. When you meet those kids who were running one more day, and the next day they come to the hospital and in 24 hours they die of myocarditis, you stop playing those peeps and maybe you start saying you're playing chess. But you don't play either. Now we decide to minimize the losses. And for me, as a man, a MP and a doctor, every lost life is crucial. And I have every thing that lowers the odds of defending myself here and holding on to it, which really bothers me. I understand, of course, that we can talk about how we can shorten it all or extend it. I understand there's a lot of pressure on all of us from the outside, but we should still maintain that we live in the 21st century, that we have some ethical principles that we follow in this life, that we can't leave them because we're being pushed into a corner by some infection, that we have to be people with a great L, that we have to keep in this situation... [[Your time is up.]] ...and don't play the part where we rule everything and train all the dickheads.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u54	Yes, thank you for keeping up the time, and I just want to remind you that please address your colleagues always through the President or the President. Thank you. And now Mr Karel Haas will speak with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u55	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I really appreciate Mr. Nacher's speech, through you. I have two comments on him. He donated the first five minutes with, say, a raised eyebrow to it, and now I mean it, as the government could afford in a state of legislative emergency, and I underline three times the amendment to the pandemic law, and how government Members could afford to table an amendment. Just a little bit of history: 15. 2. put forward the government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement, and I am not surprised at the situation then, in a state of legislative emergency pandemic law, not amendment. And 18. 2. on the day on which both readings took place, in a reduced state of legislative emergency, government MPs have read the important amendments to the pandemic law legitimately, Ivo Vondrák and Jan Hamáček. That's just to say, we're all on the same subway. And I don't think it's a typical condition. However, and now I take it as a commendation to the ANO and ODS ranks, it should not be common in democratic political entities, but it is not, let's say, unusual. And the other thing. My colleague Nacher stopped at material content in his legal part of the amendment to the pandemic law, and please, the Government's proposal, the House press 1158, last February did not contain compensation, did not contain an insurance of the state of the pandemic emergency disabled by the Chamber of Deputies, did not include a priority review by the Supreme Administrative Court. This, I think, was a much greater error than the one we are dealing with today and was quite correct or corrected in the form of amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u56	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, before I give the floor to Minister Válek, does Mr Nacher still want to respond with a point of fact? Yes, he wants to respond, so please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u57	Well, thank you. Thank you for the reactions. I'd just like to ask Mr. Docent, who I'm sitting with in the D.A.'s office, and I really appreciate him, what was I wrong about there? I wonder. If the numbers didn't match, the data didn't match, citations didn't match, context didn't match? I've put it all in some context, some context, I've structuring it to make it completely clear, and I've been taking those numbers from public sources. There's not one thing that's not true. I'll give you the notes I've been coming out of, and if you red-face what I said wrong there, I'll be glad and I'll apologize. That's one thing. Second thing. I repeat, the situation is different. That's up to a colleague of Haas. The situation is different. I said the numbers. You can't, just the context is important to compare January, February 2021, January, February 2022. Because how will those people out there see it? Before vaccination, almost none, now over 12 years 72.4 two doses, I don't have it on me, and we say... and we're gonna do the same thing, or almost the same thing? What's the message to the company? It's like, psychologically, this is wrong. That means there's no comparison. So you like to say, when two do the same thing, it's not the same thing. By the way, when it comes to the changeling, I don't blame you for giving it. In the end, I'm glad you softened it up for the contents. No, I was just saying that when you put it in a state of legislative emergency, it should just be tapped out, puffed out, if I say so. Not that this is being done in the Chamber of Deputies. Nothing more, nothing less. It wasn't about the content this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now giving the floor with priority right to Minister Válek and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared with a factual remark. [[Rejection note from the diaper off the microphone.]] Please, it's true. The actual remarks were in a certain order, then Minister Válek came forward, so that he could be given priority rights and then the others followed factual points. Can it be that way? Yes, thank you. Please, Minister, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I don't want to complicate things anymore. I have already answered most of the questions that have been asked, but I will sum up. In 2000 (?), in the second half, the government tasked the Minister of the Interior to prepare a crisis law. It is clearly written in the minutes of the Government's meeting that measures should be incorporated in it, which will lead to the possibility of issuing these various methodological or exceptional measures, and which will be - that there should also be a chapter in that crisis law dealing with the covidum and the general epidemic. The crisis law was being worked on, even presented here and so on. Unfortunately, there is no word in it about the pandemic law. I'm not criticizing it, I'm just saying, this option is useless now, it needs to start working on it again. I'm not saying it's someone's fault, I'm just saying what the situation is. Likewise, the Minister has been working on amending the Public Health Act, perhaps you will remember, the Chief Hygiene and so on. This has been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, Minister Vojtěch, with this law moving somewhere. The law didn't really go anywhere, and there's absolutely nothing working on it, even there's no suggestion at the Ministry about what the content should look like. That means what I immediately started doing, I started working on this law. And in this law, there will also be cases relating to pandemics. There's nothing I can do about it again, because I've only been at the Ministry for a month. And I have made it clear here, and I will repeat that I would like this law to be part of the debate that you are calling for and which, I hope, will be intense, we will have different opinions and, of course, there will be fights for how hygiene should look, there will be different local interests. Well, the law will go through the standard process here. I firmly believe that by November he will be in the phase of being able to use it. So all that could be done was to use the amendment to the pandemic law prepared by Minister Vojtěch, who was probably prepared to submit it to the government if the government were still in the process of internal commentary. We have incorporated some amendments into the amendment, then colleagues from our five parties have completed the two amendments there, and now this amendment is here. But I honestly admit that I took advantage of the work of the previous ministry, and I took advantage of the fact that she went through the commentary process of the previous government. I didn't think it would really arouse such passions, because the problem is the measures. [[16.00 hours]] Now let's talk about what's going on with the measures. So I made it clear that at the end of the year, on New Year's Eve, for the time I was actually in the government, I don't know the week, on the 17th I was appointed, that it was not necessary to consult the AntiCovid team then, with the group of experts I gathered, that it was not necessary to have an emergency situation, that even there was no need to have a limited operating time. I have been receiving incredible complaints from a number of Members for this. I'm not saying which ones, but I got from some of the guys sitting here, getting Armageddon, it didn't happen. The measures were well set up, I'm not saying it was my fault, I would never dare say it was Professor Chlíbek's credit and many other experts. Today, it is almost 40 people who discuss and propose different options twice a week. We're picking the best way out of this. We're trying to come to an agreement. And I'm glad that's how it was set up. After all, if you remember, that was my main complaint. I've only always had two complaints. That strategies are changing, which was due to the fact that five ministers took turns in a year. I have always worked very well with Minister Vojtěch, I have always praised him, the Health Committee knows that. I had the same positive look, or the same positive assessment, if the measures were somehow continuous, the problem that they alternated with the advisors and everyone had a slightly different opinion about it, different Sníh, different Deputy Minister Černý and so on. [[has been]] There's no point going back to that. It's just if we wanted to put it in context. So now I have passed the pandemic law, because since the 28th here we have to have some sort of standard, which, on the one hand, will allow us to continue to keep traveling abroad and so on, enter passports. For one thing, I don't want us to become a country that will shine on the map of the world in red and be labeled risky. I want our citizens to be able to travel abroad as easily as possible. And what I do with the measures: end of the year without emergency, everything I promised in the framework of the measures, I implement, end the testing, end the 18th testing in companies and schools, as I promised in mid-February that there would be some change. Again, what will follow in the next steps is based on the recommendations of experts, their proposals. And I will continue to do that because I have no reason and I will never propose, and I think that less than a month and a half of it is clear proof that I am not proposing anything that I consider unnecessary, which would be redundant. The measures we have are one of the softest in Europe. The softest in Europe. And the criticism I'm getting, I'm not going to name some, is that these measures are so soft. Criticism isn't because I've taken some tough measures, it's because I'm softening them. Criticism is that during vánoce there was no emergency and through New Year's Eve there was no emergency. Criticism is that I canceled mandatory vaccinations and mandatory vaccination decrees. The criticism is that the measures are not as hard as in the surrounding countries. And they're not. And I don't want her to be that tough. That a team of experts who advises this government and me, and I thank them very much for that, cooperates very intensively with Professor Dušek and their predictions are 100% effective. [[knocks three times on the speaker's counter]] They're the ones who were supposed to come, in this case they came, and I'm listening to them. That's why I'm doing this. And I definitely have zero interest in criticizing anything about what was last year, what was last year, because I'm aware of the difficult situation. I realize it wasn't easy. In a number of cases, in a number of cases, I was behind those decisions. In a number of cases, in a number of cases, I supported Minister Vojtěch, he knows, I know, you don't have to admit it, that's right. And I've often been a much more coalition MP than some coalition MPs. In the case of at least two laws, yes. All you have to do is read the medical records. But I just have an attitude and I evaluate what I think is right, and I'm always going to evaluate what I think is medically correct. That's why we need the pandemic law. Yes, I hope for the best. I'll always hope for the best. If I hadn't hoped for the best, I wouldn't have tried to treat my patients as a doctor. But I'm preparing for the worst. I'm getting ready for the worst. I have to be ready for that. If I'm not ready for this, I'm making a mistake. And then I accept what God has decided to send. Pandemic law is the preparation for the worst. Nothing more, nothing less. And I will do everything I can to ensure that the measures are the best. What will not be hard, what will allow people to live normally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u60	Thank you. Your contribution raised two factual points. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Robert králíček, Mr Kamal Farhan, and then President Schillerová, will be prepared. I just want to ask, Mr Svoboda, are you applying with a factual remark or with a privilege? [[Mr. Freedom responds off the microphone.]] I took over the meeting, I wasn't marked. You volunteered with priority rights? With a point of fact? I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor. Mr. Svoboda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u61	I'm sorry, but I disappeared. I'll answer my colleague Nacher. The problem is that we're not really playing here, man, I'm sorry. Our goal should be to minimize the number of those who will fight this disease and to fight it unsuccessfully. That the number of people who kneel on all fours, because otherwise they can't breathe, is as small as possible. To keep the number of deaths intrauterinely, i.e. in the womb, the children as small as possible, and we haven't met at the birthing wards at present. That's the target. What you're saying is some way. And I don't really care if it's okay, it says ANO or Trikolóra. Like saying there's no rules, no opposition, no coalition... The goal is crucial, not the path, which is not really decisive. And I am convinced that we are in a phase where we still have to collect data so that we can say yes, this path is the right one. As long as we don't have it, in medicine, we just have to do the thing where we don't let that person infect the others that we won't let him hurt himself. The moment we know for sure -- we never know -- medicine doesn't know anything 100% -- that the development is such that we can afford it, we can afford anything. No appeal to what they're doing in Holland, what they're doing somewhere else doesn't matter at all. Every condition is different, and every virus in that country is a little different because he mutates within the world he's in. And that's the basic mistake and the problem with all your talking that you've completely forgotten that we're not talking about peeps on a man, I'm sorry, but that we're talking about living people and that these people don't have to be among us either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u62	Thank you, rapporteur. Now, four factual points. Now Mr Robert králíček, then Mr Kamil Farhan and others. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u63	Mr President, colleagues, they broke it for me, Minister Válek and Mr Svoboda. I'm going to respond to Mr. Haas. But I think I should have gone before the Minister, because I really think that de facto comes first over priority rights. And I just wanted to fill in Patrik Nacher. About how it went, how you said it went last time. Well, last time, the opposition told us that the pandemic law wouldn't pass unless there was an agreement before the hearing. Before the hearing. And even before negotiations on the pandemic law, there was a health committee where there had to be an agreement with the opposition. Otherwise, we were told you wouldn't let us play it, and you're gonna build it. There's a difference. Because today you're crushing it on strength without a deal. No deal. To strength. That's the big difference. And as the Minister here says he was looking forward to the debate, he had the debate at the Health Committee, and at the plenary meeting there was a clear agreement on what form the pandemic law would pass. If it were now, we wouldn't have to sit here for two days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u64	Thank you. Mr Kamal Farhan will be next, with a point of fact, and President Alena Schillerová will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u65	Mr President, Government, thank you for the floor. In fact, I have two points on the Minister. The first thing is that I expected my colleague Maříková to respond, where she said, to quote actually what the Minister said: the decision of the administrative court is precisely the reason why it is necessary to amend the pandemic law if he were to apply today, so this measure, which is without doubt correct, would be indisputable. She asked that she didn't actually find this anywhere in the pandemic law. I would have put that question a little differently. Where there is qualitative support in the pandemic law for the decision of the administrative court. Well, that's my first question. And then I wanted a refill, and if you'll excuse me if I misunderstood. You said that, in fact, the support for vaccination in the non-vaccine or the third dose, via the Minister, is being sent out to insurance companies. Or that they were sending letters or something like that to them on the question, I would have found it in the stent, on the question of Mrs Vildumetzová. Then you said through the mayors and others and others. I was gonna say that at this point, I don't know about any letter that might have been sent by the VZP. I remember that the last letter she sent to her insured persons was in the fall, and it was at the request of Minister Vojtěch and on the recommendation of the Government Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u66	Thank you. Now, President Alena Schillerová, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, through Mr President, you have spoken about the fact that the law on crisis management has not been prepared. I think you've already talked about this in the morning, and my colleague responded to it, and it might fit in with the big debate. So it's not like I want to test you right now, you're talking about a law on crisis management not being prepared. He was not only prepared, he was even sent to the legislative process, he was approved by the former Chamber of Deputies, but he returned it to the Senate, he was with some objections, he failed to vote him over, he prepared a new one and he was no longer able to approve it. So he's somewhere ready. I'm just pointing this out, because my colleague Radek Vondráček here explained it. I'm just worried -- I'm not gonna go into your professional debates, it's not my place, I don't understand it, I'm afraid as a lawyer, we've all read today -- you've had the government and we've read the Supreme Administrative Court's decision, I suppose neither you nor I've had time to read the detailed reasoning, you don't even have a short version yet, I know how it's coming. However, there is a reference to the validity of seven days, if I have read well, so in seven days, the services, restaurants, hotels will open up to everyone. And I think the last motivation for vaccination is losing. Compulsory vaccination for selected professions, that's what you've retreated from. I don't appreciate your responsibility. Now the Supreme Administrative Court has cancelled the other motivational file here, so what's the motivation? Will these people even be motivated? I read today that you still have a government meeting tonight, that you are going to deal with this, which is certainly very important and commendable, but I fear that when I hear the debate and when I hear how many questions the law raises, the law is controversial, and I am two years behind me as a member of the government... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'll sign up next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u68	Thank you for respecting the time, Madam President. With a factual remark, Mr Patrik Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna say this one last time, as much as I can, because I disagree with what Professor Svoboda said. I'll say it again. I don't know how to sum it up any better and easier. A year ago, there was 7,100 here in the hospitals, and you didn't give us anything as opposition. You didn't want to prolong the emergency while your captains did, and this came out of it. That was the condition. Now there are 2,000 in hospitals, and the situation is different. And all of a sudden, the opposition is a coalition, and you actually want to use the same mechanism, the same path, and it's legitimate that I'm just asking about this incoherence. And with these serious conditions, when we talk about it, you haven't been broken by over 1,500 people in a serious state before, and now we're supposed to feel guilty about the people being there eight times less and all the other countries that we're following in two, three weeks or a month are releasing. This is the context of the situation of the approval of this matter. And it seems to me that it's very clear. That's why it's legitimate to ask that when someone's been squabbling about whether the emergency should be 20 days or 15, about those 5 days to a year, when the situation is dramatically different, from the point of view of hospital capacities better, there's suddenly been a drop of action that's going on by the end of November.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u70	Thank you. Since we have exhausted all the factual points, the Member will now speak in the debate - do you have priority rights? Then your priority right, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u71	I'm sorry, I don't want this for nothing... But briefly to Mrs Maříková, to Mr Farhan, through Mr President. Article 4 (1) (a) of CRR Article 4 (1) (a) (b). As far as the crisis law is concerned, yes, that is absolutely true, but I believe you are talking about an amendment to the crisis law that did not pass the Senate, where the fines were adjusted. It wasn't a conceptual change where there was a pandemic law. There's not even a letter to the pandemic in this novel. Yes, the crisis law is being amended at the Ministry, the second amendment, which then didn't get into the House, that's also true. I was looking at him, unfortunately there's no word about covid and pandemic again, as Minister Hamáček was assigned. I'm not criticizing it, I understand that it was complicated, complicated to the end, I understand everything. I'm just defining the situation. It really doesn't have any critical undertones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u72	Thank you, too. And now, therefore, Mr Kamal Farhan, after him, I am registering an application with the priority right of President Excellent. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u73	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I would like to respond to the Minister, by your means, his answer. I'm glad you have it in the pandemic law, I think it will pass, so I'll try to use or paraphrase your words, it'll be fine. I, what I read, what Prime Minister Fiala said a moment ago, said that the situation was fresh and that you would still analyze it and make some decisions. Your deputy used the same words: first it has to be analyzed, then you do it. 'Cause I'm not really convinced that this is just the way the law says it, but I'm not a lawyer, so I'm not gonna argue with you. I don't think it was in the original one, it's not in the current one either. Now I'd just like to comment briefly, I'll be brief, I'll fit in five minutes, a draft. The government is presenting an amendment in an accelerated regime of legislative emergency. For my part, I don't think there's any valid reason for that. This amendment is so serious that it should be discussed both at first, second and third reading, so that we simply do not rule out a proper substantive, democratic debate. I also wanted to thank you for the amendments that came out here, because, as I have already pointed out in the Health Committee, there has been at least a partial correction from my point of view, so thank you for that, which will also reduce my speech. What I don't like in there is certainly those powers of government to restrict outdoor activities, zoos, camps, kindergartens, universities and so on. Personally, I think that when a situation is so serious that schools are shutting down, it is better to apply an emergency than a pandemic law. It has been repeatedly told that the pandemic law would apply for a period of time strictly necessary, which I think can also be used for a period of time strictly necessary, and it is a sufficient instrument. [[16.20 hours]] What am I missing? I miss the guarantee of loss of profit. In fact, it was not mentioned at the beginning when this law was introduced. For the sake of correctness, I must say that he wasn't in the past either, and he's not in this either. On the other hand, the current government declares support for tradesmen, small and medium-sized enterprises, but it explicitly states in this law that only real damage is paid, which, by definition, excludes loss of profit. This makes the pandemic rule significantly less favourable than the emergency regime, where it is thought of in Section 36 of the Crisis Act. This concerns mainly restaurants, lifts and other establishments. And the most serious legal clause I had was § 8a, according to which it is possible to place quarantines and isolation in the oral way, by telephone, by text. From my point of view, it was also my criticism, which was expressed on the Health Committee and partly corrected here. I understand that, in fact, in this way, the petitioners are trying to solve the problem of quarantine imposed under the applicable Act No. 258/2000 Sb. However, I believe that the original law has not been unfounded, at least to a minimum it has assessed whether quarantine is still necessary or isolation must end. I would just stop here for a short time and say that I believe that when the state budget is presented, I will say that there will be support for hygiene and that there will be an increase in the number of employees in hygiene, who are currently swamped. I hope that within the quotation marks of reductions or savings it will not reach places that concern individual health stations. Then, when we discuss this in March, I will ask the Minister, but it would be harmful from my point of view if there were a reduction in the number of employees in sanitary stations. In such a serious matter as to personal freedom, the quarantine is very unfortunate to send a text message. I can't imagine, for example, putting a bond on one of us just coming up with a text. As has been said here, what will people who are in execution often change phones, people who are losing phones, how will delivery be evaluated and others? But I'm saying it's already been commented here in some way, but I see it as a big problem. What else I'm interested in. The law talks about the person in charge, but there's no telling who it might be. Again on the Health Committee, we learned that it might be the headmaster of the school, which is okay, because I think the kids or parents will take it from the headmaster. But not always if, for example, the person in charge is the director of the firm, the boss, the manager. Not everyone wants him to have a text tonight about quarantine from a direct supervisor or circumstantial. For me, this whole thing seems pretentious, quickly sewn up. Let me just quote now, this quote may not be quite accurate from last week, when the interview was actually made by Minister Válek on TV, when he said and said: The situation is under control, everything is running. Kids can ride mountains. If the number of infected people doesn't go up to 60,000, up to 60,000, I think he said up to 80, then we're handling the situation. If these numbers increase, we will have to intervene in some way. - That's what I got the impression that the situation is really under control and that nothing is going on. This is one of the reasons why I cannot support this law in a legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u74	Thank you, too. And now, as I have announced, President Marek Výborný will perform with priority rights and then we will continue to register properly, in the order of Marek Novák, Drahoslav Ryba and others. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u75	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Government, my fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I have listened carefully, whether here in the Chamber of Deputies or in the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, to the debate at this fourth stage of the debate, or to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we finally got to the amendment of the Pandemic Law, in short. The position of the representatives of the SPD and the ANO movement, both the President and the President of the club, was quite clear here. A number of other Members have also appeared here. I am pleased that the Minister here has responded and responded to the questions raised, or comments on the individual positions that the opposition is presenting here. But I am convinced that at this moment, as a representative of the five-calice, the ODS coalition, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and the Pirates, I should be the messenger of 20... how many? Twenty-eight, twenty-nine hours of discussing this House's press have shifted to the finals. I also see a clear fatigue in the ranks of the opposition, and it would also be good to take care of our health. While we have the Minister of Health here, I would not like to employ him more than is needed, and therefore, in accordance with Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask that we, Mr Vice-President, vote immediately on the possibility of Members speaking twice five minutes in both general and detailed debate. Once again: two or five minutes in general and two or five minutes in detail in the debate. Thank you for allowing this vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u76	Thank you for the suggestion, Mr President. I'm registering your procedural proposal. First, I'm going to check you all out and ask you to register with your cards. A counterproposal? [[This is Mr. Razor.]] Okay, I understand, yes. I'm sorry, Mr. Žáček, you need to release the speaker's counter, you're going to have to make a counterproposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u77	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to file a counterclaim. Not twice five, but twice ten minutes. I think it's kind of a decent compromise, and it could go two ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u78	Yes, thank you. That's a legitimate counterproposal. I'm asking if there's another proposal. I don't see anyone, in which case we'll proceed to the vote. First of all, we will vote on Mr Brázdil's counter-proposal, which suggests that... there are factual remarks coming to me, but I will erase them, because it is now impossible to make factual remarks... in order to reduce the speaking time both in detail and in the general debate to two or ten minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 46, with 118 Members registered, for proposal 49, against 2. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore return to the original proposal by President Excellent, which is twice five minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who for the proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 47, with 118 Members registered, for proposal 70, against 47. We have agreed with the proposal, we have limited the speaking time in both general and detailed debate to two or five minutes. [[16.30 hours]] Before we go any further, I'll read them. Between 16.30 and 19.00 for reasons of work, Mrs Renáta Zajíčková apologizes to Mrs Eliška Olšáková, for family Ženíšek she apologizes from 16.00 to 19.00 and from 19.00 for family Lipavský Mrs Michaela Opltová, from 17.00 to the end of the working day for health Martin Mr Jiří Navrátil, from 17.30 to 22.00 for reasons of work Mr Roman Bělor, between 18.00 and midnight for family reasons is apologising for Mrs Lucie Potůčková, from 17.00 to 19.00 for reasons of work Mr Lubomír Brož, from 16.00 to the end of the Marek day Mr Havlíček, from 15.00 to the end of the working day, from 15.00 to the end of the working day Mr Karel Rais apologizes from 15.00 to Kukla. And now we will continue the general debate. Mr Marek Novák, Mr Drahoslav Ryba, is the first to be signed in. Your five minutes, please, Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Dear colleagues, colleagues, government, like you, I have received a lot of suggestions and requests from citizens, and I am not just speaking now...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u80	I apologise, Mr Member, but I am going to ask you, my fellow Members, to keep it down, the Member is running out of time. Respect that he speaks, and listen to him. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u81	I think, Mr President, that you can stop that time for a while, if you interrupt me, I would ask you, or then set it up. Thank you. So, like you, I have received suggestions, and it is not just citizens, but, above all, organisations, entrepreneurs, that we reject the pandemic law in its form. The reasons for which we should do so are based not only on expert legal analyses and findings of the courts, but also, in particular, on the personal experience of citizens, associations, associations, entrepreneurs. I'll give you the main reasons I see in this. It is precisely the main issue when the draft law in its submitted form constitutes an entirely unconstitutional intervention of the legislative power into the executive power, even according to the existing case law of the Constitutional Court. The bill repeatedly operates with the concept of epidemic, although its legal or professional definition is missing. The fulfilment of the conditions of the law, duration or threat of an epidemic will not be possible in practice to review. The bill opens up a huge scope for enforcement to interfere with the integrity of the human body and introduce experimental procedures within the framework of the exercise of state power, completely contrary to general moral ethical principles. The proposal completely ignores existing legal institutes for the protection of public health, especially the so-called pandemic plan. The bill does not bring anything fundamentally new from a positive point of view. In fact, all measures can be dealt with under emergency conditions, state of danger, or through measures by the Ministry of Health or Regional Hygiene Stations according to the Public Health Act. Of course, this is not appropriate when we remember how it was here in the last parliamentary term to prolong the emergency situation. On the other hand, it is an instrument for me that the House can control the government, and the government presents reasons for the emergency situation, why it wants to prolong it and what emergency measures it wants to implement. In fact, this is how the House loses control. Instead of making the bill aimed at enabling the public authorities and bodies of the integrated rescue corps to act more effectively in dealing with crisis situations, it is, above all, a new repressive instrument that allows for completely inadequate restrictions on civil rights and freedoms, and even for such restrictions, to abuse the components of the integrated rescue corps, including the army and the Police of the Czech Republic. If we continue to talk about where the law limits the citizen, where he runs into the constitution everywhere, then of course the Ministry of Health has all these analyses. But let's really talk about real life, let's talk about the fact that a lot of universities are using a pandemic screen today, where, for example, in talent tests, where the student apologizes, because he's in quarantine or he has covid as such, so he's not allowed another term at all, and he can go to another college and try it again in a year on those talents. But that is what I think is unfair, and that is why it is really necessary to address the life and all the interference of this law in the various committees, not only in the Committee on Health, but also in the Committee on Constitutional Law, but also in the Education and Defence Committee and others. So I'm asking you, if you really want to push this through, let the debate go, don't limit it, because otherwise we're just gonna dig into this place to force something that's gonna hit your head at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up is Mr. Drahoslav Ryba and Mr. Radek Koten will be prepared. [[A Member of the Fish wants to join both posts.]] Mr. Ambassador, there is a fact that there should be a repeated application for debate... Other colleagues nod at me for that. I don't want to take your rights away, but it's been two or five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u83	Okay, thank you, I'll try to enter. Mr President, Mr Government, honourable Members, I do not like very emotional expressions, so I will try to ease it a little. I believe that the original law No. 94/2021 Sb. is a bad law, and from a legal point of view, it should not have been approved, and no amendment, albeit better, can modify it. Why? It is a law that is completely outside the system of crisis management and crisis legislation. We all know how it came about and that it was in quotation marks, in large quotation marks, compromises, I might say that the then government was pushed into this by a former opposition that did not want to prolong the emergency situation. The concept of an emergency has become an unwanted term, perhaps a dirty word, but the emergency situation is created for these measures and is nothing more than a legal option, a framework for the establishment of these measures in the intensities of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I can understand it from a human point of view. I have worked my whole life in structures whose main mission is to protect lives, the health of the population. And since the government didn't have a choice at the time, I totally get it. And if I were in the House then, as if I weren't, I would probably raise my hand for this law, too, in that situation. The government could either cancel a large part of the measure and resign to solving the pandemic with all the consequences on people's lives, or go to this very bad law, in my opinion, into which the opposition was pushed, and it is a good thing that its validity is ending. This law was established for a certain period of time, precisely because even then, the government seemed to be very well aware of the problematic areas of the legislation. [[16.40 hours]] I would like to respond to the rapporteur, or certainly to the Member of Mr Docent Svoboda, through Mr President, that the objective that you have set here is correct. I'll sign that at any time and at midnight, because it's a waste of every life we can save. But unlike you, I think we can work our way to him in a different way in accordance with constitutional order. I'm not a lawyer, but I don't think I need to be a lawyer for this, that it takes common sense to see that both the law and the amendment are contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Constitutional order of the Czech Republic consists of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and Constitutional Laws, while the Constitution can only be supplemented or amended by constitutional laws. Fundamental human rights and freedoms are defined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and these rights can be restricted again only by constitutional laws, which are certainly not the law or amendment, contrary to Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, which defines, among other things, the emergency state. I see the contradiction in several articles. At least in a few articles. Article 8 - Personal freedom is guaranteed. Article 10 - Everyone has the right to protection against unauthorised interference with private and family life. Article 14 - Freedom of movement and residence is guaranteed. Article 26 - Everyone has the right to engage in and engage in other economic activities. I have to say, it's not just my opinion. I've had a few quotes prepared here by lawyers who have that opinion, too. I'm not gonna read them because I wouldn't fit the limit. The current government is extremely lucky - lucky - that the omicron virus that prevails at this time is much more contagious, but probably much less dangerous. According to a number of experts and, among other things, the current Minister of Health this week in Prague and the Czech Republic within ten days, the number of diseases will reach a peak and the number of infected will further decrease. At the same time, measures will be relaxed. Therefore, I believe that this law will no longer be necessary. There won't be any need to rush him like that. I'm going back to the Minister of Health who told us about the Supreme Administrative Court's decision. I'm just saying, I don't have a reason, but I'm based on an article on list.cz , which quotes some and where it is directly stated: The Supreme Administrative Court has stated that the Ministry of Health cannot make access to restaurants, hotels or clubs subject to so-called infectivity, unless it is suspected of being infected. The Supreme Administrative Court annulled part of the emergency measure currently in force by seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u84	Your time is up. [[I have to sign up again.]] Log in again and you'll be able to finish your speech. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, too. Mr Radek Koten will now appear, who has twice five minutes in a row. Your ten minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u85	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, Members, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen, Ministers, Minister, I would like to start with a rather basic matter here. My previous speaker has already mentioned fundamental human rights and freedoms here. However, I would still be suspended for article 23. Citizens have the right to oppose anyone who would remove the democratic order of human rights and fundamental freedoms established by the Charter if the activities of constitutional bodies and the effective use of legal means are prevented. Maybe I could do it again for the five-police government, because if you're surprised that citizens are out there demonstrating, it's the citizens who are using Article 23, because in their opinion, article 23 is already being violated here, namely fundamental human rights and freedoms. I have yet to find another law in the Code of Criminal Procedure - that is a bit different - Section 402, and that is apartheid and discrimination against a group of people, in this case the unscathed or those who no longer want to follow nonsensical measures. I'm gonna read that paragraph because I think it's important that it sounds here. First: who applies apartheid or racial, ethnic, national, religious or class segregation or other similar discrimination against a group of people will be punished by imprisonment for five to twelve years. That's exactly what it is, because you're trying to push through something where a group of people can go to the theater, they can go to the restaurant, they can go to the vehicles, and another group, that's impossible. Second, by removing freedom from ten to twenty years, or by an exceptional punishment, the perpetrator shall be punished if he casts the action referred to in paragraph 1. 1 such a group of people into difficult living conditions, that is, will not want them in employment or will force them to do something and so on, or if by such an act such a group of people exposes to inhuman or degrading treatment. Prep here is criminal. And I think it's pretty scary. I'm not saying I'm a lawyer, but at least I have some basic legal overview, and I've studied this bill properly. I can explain to you what the pandemic law is about from a legal point of view. So I would return to these crisis situations, which are known by the Czech rule of law, when countries are temporarily not governed by ordinary laws. At these moments, the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic are greatly restricted. This is therefore a state of danger, an emergency, a state of emergency and a state of war. The pandemic law will thus be the fifth highest and permanent state. During the validity of the pandemic law, the rights will be restricted even more than during the state of war, so I would point out here, not temporarily, but permanently and across the board. I know that some amendments have already taken care of this permanently and across the board. But I think it is quite very warning that it was possible to even put such a version into reading in the Chamber of Deputies. It will therefore be possible to ban family visits, to leave the village without declaring an emergency, or, for example, to check the QR code of the relative on the visit. Who would be evaluated as an enemy, not vaccinated or with the right dose of the vaccine, or may be positive, can be anyone who shows up with a finger, and must be safely isolated from others. This provision could theoretically send you to some successful internment camp. I think the news from Australia is quite warning. And we also experienced this at the Australian Open, when the world's number one Mr. Djokovič was sent to completely inconvenient and undignified spaces, and there he was held against his will. So all of this would be in accordance with the law. It will also be able to remove legally held weapons so that these people cannot defend themselves under Article 23 of the fundamental rights and freedoms. And they can also restrict the mobility of the population, which happened here because this wasn't allowed from the county to the county. And, of course, health care, they can limit voting rights. For example, those who do not have a valid QR code will not be able to vote and will not even be able to be elected. This law therefore puts obedience to the new regime into the role of capital crime, which is more serious than, for example, robbery or murder. The new pandemic law is no fun at all, and without any exaggeration it is similar to the February coup in 1948, or it is still possible for political processes with disobedient ones to be carried out under this law. [[16.50 hours]] I'd mention one more standard that is strikingly similar, and maybe my colleagues here can bang my desks or something, but it started in 1933 with an executable law. It was then adopted by the German Reichstag and signed by the Reich President of Germany, Mr Hindenburg, on 23 March 1933. So he was the second step following the decree on the fire of the Reichstag building, with which the Reich Chancellor gained exceptional powers and became a leader. The law allowed the government and cabinet to adopt laws without their approval by the Reichstag for four years. The full name of the law, the law to correct the need of the people and the Empire. You know, I think we need to say some historical parallels here, because unfortunately, people have forgotten some of the events of their past. And it was this law, even in the 1935 Nuremberg Laws, which had been in effect since September 15 of this year, that laws were actually able to turn people into citizens of the second category, with Davidův's star. In this case, it's replaced by the QR code that you show when you enter different spaces. You might even notice that even in Germany, they have that tradition, so they use it quite well, there, when you go shopping, you just can't even buy it without the yellow, green or red tape. So, colleagues, colleagues, this is your target here? That's it? Is that what you're bringing in here? Please, I beg you to reconsider the adoption of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u86	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Drahoslav Ryba is reporting with a point of fact and then Mr Zdeněk Kettner is duly registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u87	Hello again. I will try to supplement the Member very briefly with the fact that the Supreme Administrative Court has stated that the aim of the measure cannot be indirectly to force citizens into vaccination, which would make voluntary vaccination compulsory by means of an extraordinary vaccination. [[Measures]] Only the end, the Ministry can either prove that the situation is extremely bad and the whole country is a focal point of the covid-19, or the government would have to declare an emergency and regulation of restaurants and hotels to ensure crisis measures. So much for the explanatory note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u88	Thank you, too. And now two applications from Mr Zdeněk Kettner, ten minutes, and Mrs Ivana Mádlová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, for the second or third time today, I'm a little confused. As far as the pandemic law is concerned, it is a little strange to me that the current government coalition, formerly the opposition, criticizes the former government in a really big way, builds its electoral campaign on it, and by the time it becomes a government coalition, it virtually doesn't just copy the previous situation, but it makes it even worse. The pandemic law, as conceived, may be a good servant under certain circumstances, but a very, very bad master. I really don't understand it, it is constantly said that we are preparing in autumn, that the law is made because of autumn, but - I am not a lawyer, I am a layman in this regard - but I cannot understand why we are in such a huge hurry and we want to discuss this in a state of legislative emergency, when there is enough time to discuss it by that autumn so that the law does not raise any doubts, so that legal authorities can say without any doubt that the law is indisputable, that there is no lawsuit and that the law looks as it should be. The fact that the law is wrong, you just have to study the statements of constitutional lawyers, I'm not going to name them here again, we all know them, they're quite often in the media. Why do we not give them hearing? I don't understand. For the next one. It's always said that the pandemic will somehow fade by the end of February, so I really don't understand the pressure any more, if that's why we're really going to do it in the fall. You could understand that when the pandemic itself began. Nobody knew anything. Everyone was in shock. If you take it not only within Europe, but also throughout the world, everyone experimented, everyone didn't know what to do, and what to do, the totally different approach, but in the end it ended up practically the same everywhere. There's practically no state that goes through absolutely spotless. So I'm in this direction... By the way, we know now that it was new, we didn't know what, it really was deadly, now we have an omicron variant, I'm not going to disrespect that there isn't a certain group of people that even the omicron can kill, but, yes, there's a lot of infectivity here, but for me it's a standard ICU filling and filling hospitals. And that's where the number goes down. Or maybe now it's rising, but we're far from at some point where hospitals stop prosecuting. The Minister is smiling, I'm sorry for slipping. Otherwise, we must respond, for example, to the Prime Minister's statement that it is actually as if we wanted to take a syringe from the firefighters. So far, it looks like we're talking about a syringe, but the fire's going out slowly. And when the syringe's ready, it's just gonna be a burn site. I have no doubt that, in some way, at the time of viral diseases, in the fall, something may come back, but we're back to the essence of the matter. We have from this point of view, because the crisis period is only that autumn, a great deal of time to prepare the law so that it is indisputable. Another thing that I'm actually going to say is that it doesn't bother me, but it makes me doubt, and that's the recognition of antibodies. I asked a question about the Ministry of Health. I was just wondering about the antibodies, and I'm here to quote from their answers that, of course, 180 days after the first positive test, the person is viewed as protected against the disease and after that 180-day period, he is viewed as a person who has not suffered the disease. However, I am interested in the following sentence: it does not matter whether or not the person concerned has had the loss of this disease in the blood of antibodies and to what extent or not. [[post]] So it's a fiction of infectivity. Well, that's absolutely amazing. So basically, I learned from the Department of Health that we're making some fairy tales here just to say something's going on. I get it. Nobody knew what to do. But with regard to the antibodies, as a layman, he gives me a little bit of a doubt, we know at what level when the antibodies fall, so it takes another and another vaccine to somehow encourage the immunity, but in the second breath, we say that we have no idea at all, and we don't even want to examine the degree of antibodies in the blood of the natural immunity, which is sufficient. For me as a layman, I would like someone to explain it to me, I see a certain discrepancy there, because we're still talking about the same antibodies, and if we know what amount of antibodies, what level is needed to need another booster dose, so how come we don't know what dose is enough? And I'm not an expert, but that really natural immunity and natural antibodies really help and should be taken at the same level as antibodies obtained by vaccination. [[17,00 hours]] I asked what percentage of normal hospital beds were made up of unscathed people who had lost the covid and were hospitalized again. And it's 1.4 percent. When I figured out how many shots there are, which are like again, it's already 46 percent. I'm not sucking that out of my finger, please, that's really information I got from the Department of Health. [[He's showing the paper.]] Then I asked the ICU how many newly re-infected un-vacated ICUs are in the ICU. That means they're not vaccinated, they went through it once, and they went to ICU again. And the number I got from the Department of Health: 0.2 percent. For fully vaccinated, this is 30 per cent. So if I put these simple numbers together, it seems to me that at least we can put the disease and the natural antibodies that were acquired after the vaccination at the same level. I've seen my neighborhood, I've even had friends in the armed forces who have been very ill after the vaccination and had the same symptoms that everyone who's been sick has had the same experience. And it was pretty soon before they went into vaccination. And then they went to their peripheral doctor and he said, well, you probably had too many antibodies, of course, you've got vaccinations here, the antibodies are too much, the body doesn't know what to do with it, and then you have a tough course. So why don't we focus this way? Why am I talking about this? Because, guys, remember, we have some experience in the Czech Republic with a totalitarian regime where people have been forced into something, and our people are very sensitive about it. Why not give them a choice? Offer other alternatives? And by the way, I asked why, if the natural antibodies are being monitored. So I was told that these studies are not in the Czech Republic and foreign studies show that antibodies are not a reliable indicator of individual immunity and therefore should not be used in this indication. Why are we focusing on abroad? So the other states will tell us that they feel that way. We didn't examine it at all, but we're gonna trust them. I don't know, but I believe in our experts, our capacity. And I would like our capacities to verify that information. Well, if our capacities come to the same conclusion, I'll be more willing to believe it than in style: he says it, we'll believe it. For me, I really cannot support this law. I would have supported him if he had not really been in breach of constitutional law, if there had been a possibility of expressing expert groups and if the law had actually been prepared so as to be indisputable, with a sufficient time horizon. Then I'd be happy to support him. But I really can't in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u90	Thank you for keeping time. With a point of fact, I have Mr Radek Koten's application. Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Actually, I'm in response here to a fellow Member named Zdeněk Kettner. So I would very much like the antibodies to be recognized, because at that first stage it was said, or it was examined, rather, to make it right, that essentially a vaccinated person who goes for antibodies in 14 days to a month, so after the first dose may have antibodies between 60 and 100 units. Just for the sake of illustration, I was on the antidotes because I lost my covid at the beginning of this year, I had a beautiful New Year's Eve. Well, I've got about eleven and a half thousand antibodies. So according to my numbers, and I'm saying that I'm not a doctor, but I'm only based on some statistical data, so I dare say that I'm much better protected than the one vaccinated with a vaccine. So it can be deduced that not only one truth can be true. But at least this is something that experts should be concerned about, because I'm sure you remember colleagues, those who experienced it two and a half years ago, we had measles here. Of course, those colleagues who experienced measles as a child had antibodies. However, those younger colleagues who weren't lucky enough to have vaccinations had to be re-infected because they just didn't have any antibodies anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u92	Mr. Ambassador, time. Thank you so much for meeting the two-minute limit. And we are going back to the general debate. The next enrollment is Mrs Mádlová Ivana. Madam, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, this has already been said about the pandemic, or not only has there been a lot of comments made on the pandemic law today. They are all generally quite serious and point to a number of shortcomings. I had to cut my speech short for five minutes, so I'm going to limit myself to some of the things that are listed in that amendment. Less than two years ago, the Czech Republic was hit by the biggest health crisis in the modern history of our statehood. It turned out that legislation, especially the Public Health Act, was not prepared for this situation. And a year ago, I understood... basically that this law had been passed, because nothing else could possibly be used. But at present, there is no reason for an amendment to the pandemic law to be adopted and approved. My confidence in this fundamental amendment, which will affect all of us so much, reduces significantly the fact that it has not been discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government, which consists mostly of leading Czech lawyers and other experts. Moreover, the comments of some of the members of this government authority show that, within the framework of the internal meetings of the amendment, it was always submitted with limited effect until August 2023, but today there is an amendment that does not have limited effectiveness. Yes, you are talking about this being in the amendment, but I wonder why the limited efficiency has been excluded? Furthermore, what I would like to ask the Minister is that there has been completely new restrictions on testing in children's groups. Children's groups can also visit children, basically infants from six months to one year, and it is basically a reminder of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. These comments were accepted by the Ministry of Health, and I wanted to ask why infants aged six months to one year should be tested by smahem if they visit a children's group and basically it is only for informational purposes whether the child is positive or negative. If this should not be the decision of a pediatrician based on an assessment of the condition, history and clinical signs. Thank you for your answer, Minister. [[17.10 hours]] And then what bothers me has already been said here, and that's basically a long-distance quarantine, whether through a phone call, by a designated person, or by a text message. Here is the question of how we can actually effectively control that SMS is being quarantined by health care stations, or who will be the designated person to control them. How are you going to legalize the obligation to carry your mobile phone around all the time? A number of comments have been made on this. It's a question of appeal. You mentioned here in the amendment that three days will be quarantined and then essentially the quarantine will disappear if any answer comes from the other side, or none will come at all. But that, of course, is the problem that even those three days can be important for essentially earning. So these are pretty big flaws. What bothers me is limiting outdoor activities, restricting suburban camps, sporting activities, you want to shut down children at home. And it bothers me especially with the children, because it obviously has a very negative impact on their psyche. It bothers me that in its programming statement, the government states that we must learn to live with the disease of covid-19, and now you are coming through an amendment to the pandemic law, which has many shortcomings, doubts. It is also questioned by constitutional experts and can be expected to be attacked by the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u94	Thank you very much, Madame. Another one for the general debate is Mr Bašta, twice, so I will let him have the ten-minute limit. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 30 hours we are discussing this law has taught me one thing. This government and this coalition don't like to lose. And that law is actually a reaction to the first such moment. The government repealed the compulsory vaccination of certain groups of citizens by decree. It should be welcomed, even in a situation where this decree should never have seen the light of day, and when it had already seen it, it should have been abolished much earlier because it caused existential uncertainty in thousands of people. It must therefore be attributed to the government for understanding the situation, including the fact that it would damage its reputation by delaying it, because not only citizens, not only associations and initiatives, but also 14 courageous senators, 20 Members and the Ombudsman called for the repeal of the decree. The Constitutional Court's decision-making was also in play, so it is possible that the government did not want to risk defeat with the highest judicial authority in our country, and at the same time thousands of lawsuits and with them the possible collapse of the state, if a part of police officers, firefighters, medical personnel, soldiers and studios ended up many students of important disciplines, not to mention overslapping the courts. Thus, the government's decision to abolish the decree was a rational step, to which this pressure on many fronts undoubtedly contributed effectively. So the government responded to this concession by the pandemic law, which we are talking about here the next day. In addition to what has been said by all colleagues, i.e. violations of fundamental rights, human rights and freedoms and other things simple by law, not constitutionally, one more thing bothers me, and that is that the judicial defence against lawlessness committed under the pandemic law is ineffective. You may turn to the court, but it's not good enough for the passing of time. The possibility of administrative defense is thus set. Before the Supreme Administrative Court decides, his decision, however right, is completely useless. After all, we heard it today. And because the measure does not apply long ago and a new and often again law is issued. So we have often witnessed an obligation to follow illegal measures that followed other illegal measures, and the possibility of defending it was theoretically there, but in practice it was completely failing, so as if it weren't. It cannot be tolerated that any State intervention cannot be legally defended. And the last reason that merely illustrates that the pandemic law has nothing to do with our legal order is the fact that specific measures will be decided by politicians, not by health authorities or doctors. Because the law, those who put together the pandemic law, knew very well what they were doing. In fact, they had an unprecedented stabilization of political power over people. Because non-political authorities would not be very helpful in deciding the type of discrimination not vaccinated, so they had to redirect that power into their own hands by a pandemic law. And I think that this discussion that we're having here, not the obstructions that he's doing first or only the SPD, has shown one extremely important thing. The radical and consistent opposition, like the SPD, is an ornament of every true democracy. The role of the opposition is traditionally understood by the government to always suspect the worst intentions. But even without this, I would still have to ask myself the following logical question: Why does the government insist on the rapid adoption of the pandemic law when it makes it almost certain of its subsequent annulment by the Constitutional Court? Moreover, he accepts it at a time when the pandemic officially ends in many countries. Maybe it has something to do with the old Czech habit of being orthodox with a delay. Like supplying ammunition to a country where it is already a peaceful and diplomatic settlement of the conflict. Another, worse alternative is what I said in my performance yesterday. If there's a law, there's always a pandemic, and it's good. Like when social protests against expensive, energy poverty and poverty start in the fall. The pandemic law could be more effective than open repression. I imagine that all organizers of strikes or demonstrations will receive SMS and will be quarantined for a week. I don't want to think where and what she's gonna be like. Australia, mentioned here, is a very warning example. That is why I think that for these reasons it was the five-calice that preferred the rapid negotiation of the pandemic law, because a proper legislative process could eliminate similar possibilities of abuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u96	Thank you. That was Mr Bašta. Another envoy is Mr Hrnčíř, Mr Zlínský will be prepared. Mr Hrnčíř is also logged in twice, so I will also give him ten minutes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to express my amazement. Amazing that this epidemic lasts almost two years in our country and there is still no binding protocol for doctors to treat this disease. This is not, in my opinion, a pandemic vaccinated or not vaccinated, but a pandemic of neglect of primary care. After all, it was quite common and I would say that when a person became ill with viral disease, he went to a doctor who thoroughly examined him and assessed his condition and sent him to a specialist in case of doubt or an adverse finding. In time, it revealed possible pneumonia or other complications. However, in the case of covid-19, the procedure is different. I would like to stress that I am talking about a disease that has crippled the whole world for two years and which results, in addition to loss of life and enormous economic losses. A huge number of business failures, tradesmen, the lives of millions of people destroyed. In the Czech Republic and, of course, not only was the whole tertiary sector of the economy affected to some extent. [[17.20 hours]] It would therefore be appropriate to believe that the treatment of patients with covid-19 was, is and will be a priority. However, this is not the case. In case of confirmation of positivity by PCR test, the patient is contacted by a health care station that commands isolation, and the treatment itself usually takes place in the form of a telephone consultation, when the doctor, without seeing or assessing the patient's condition, only recommends a rest mode and medications to reduce temperature. This will give the sick real medical care only when he is in a serious condition transferred to the hospital. At that point, however, it is usually too late to use supportive medications. In doing so, many experts expressed their indignation that supportive and effective covid-19 medications are available in sufficient quantities, but they do not prescribe them to the sick in most cases. Therefore, if we are serious about combating Covid-19 disease, the establishment of a medical protocol is absolutely essential and necessary. Instead of emphasising the treatment of patients and maintaining a normal life as far as possible for healthy, however, this government faces that there is only one way out of the epidemic, and that is the way of fear and restriction. The way of regulations, bans, orders, the way of haunting and segregation and I am not afraid to say the division of society into citizens of the first and second categories. The road where, under the guise of the fight against pandemics, unprecedentedly affects all of us, the path where freedom of citizens of the Czech Republic is increasingly being cut off without sound scientific evidence. Without any logic and justification, completely healthy people are being bullied under the pretext of combating pandemics, especially at a time when experts across the spectrum agree that omicron mutations are likely to end the epidemic as we know it. At the moment, the government's proposed amendment to the pandemic law is not only unfounded but also dangerous. I would like to recall the pre-election promises of the current coalition, especially its then critique of lockdown, compulsory vaccination and emergency. As we all know, the decree on compulsory vaccination of selected professional groups and citizens over 60 years of age, originally effective from 1 March 2022, was abolished not immediately after the accession of this government, but only after the persistent and strong pressure of citizens and also the SPD movement. The Minister of Health Válek, who shouted before the elections that if compulsory vaccination was introduced, he would be the first to be chained naked from the waist here in front of the Chamber of Deputies and prevented the entry of the Minister of Health, suddenly not entirely sure after the election. Other members of the government suddenly did not consider compulsory vaccination of certain professional groups such a bad idea. It was, I repeat, the pressure of citizens and also my and my colleagues in the SPD movement, who forced the government to abolish this senseless decree. But let us not fall asleep on laurels. As a matter of fact, the government came up with an amendment to the pandemic law. This amendment brings so much fundamental change that it is necessary to draw their attention to them loudly. Without the media's greater interest, another giant piece of constitutional freedom is cutting off all of us. It creates a parallel legal order, circumvents a number of laws including the Constitution of the Czech Republic and introduces a totalitarian regime in our country. It has to give the ministries of health, interior and defence even more powers than the government has at a time of war. Even the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens will be restricted more than would be limited in a state of war. The government, which calls itself democratic and loving freedom, introduces totalitarianism, when the Parliament of the Czech Republic will be bypassed, when citizens will be cast into complete legal uncertainty, when there will be no appeal against the will of the Office, and all of this will last forever. Simply put, the government that declared an end to the emergency, essentially all the measures that were subject to the emergency, has anchored into the pandemic law. Please note that this has been many times the measures that have been challenged and repealed by the Supreme Administrative Court. Moreover, the government is planning unlimited effectiveness for this law that it has put forward. In addition, it introduces liquidation fines and further extension of the powers of the authorities. That's literally a voter scam, ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, we cannot praise the fact that the emergency situation has been lifted when all restrictions and all restrictions are now not subject to emergency conditions, but only to this pandemic law, which, moreover, will not have a limited validity. Yes, if it comes in handy to the government, he'll pull the rabbit out of the hat like a proper arrangement. In addition, with a draconian fine of CZK 1 million for every obligation not respected. This government, which had been so happy to criticize all the illegal measures that the Ministry of Health issued, so instead of promising redress, it promotes a change of law so that it can continue the illegal practice boldly. I would like to emphasise the changes this amendment brings. The amendment will extend the list of emergency measures that can be taken under the pandemic law under adverse epidemic situations. The authorities will be able to limit business and other activities in the premises, in the shopping centre, in the marketplace or in the marketplace. It will also be possible to regulate operating hours. Restrictions will also be possible for all activities in which one is in direct contact with someone else. The amendment also complements the power to regulate the operation of all types of sports facilities, schools, children's groups and facilities for extracurricular education of children. The measures will also apply to music, dance and similar clubs, discotheques, gambling rooms, casinos, museums, galleries, castles, castles, public libraries, planetariums, zoos and botanical gardens. The novel includes cultural events, festivals, festivals, markets, fairs and recovery events for children or suburban camps. Authorities will also be able to order testing in employment and schools. People who have had a positive antigen test may be ordered to stay away from others. The authorities will be able to order similar restrictions for people who have returned from countries with an increased risk of Coronavirus infection. Passengers from abroad could then be obliged to fill in the arrival form. Following the extension of the list of emergency measures, the offences will be adjusted so that any emergency measure is enforceable. It is also stated in the law that regulations on isolation or quarantine may be notified orally or in writing by health care professionals and other workers to the person concerned, including by means of remote communication, including by means of SMS. A draconian fine for non-compliance of CZK 1 million is newly introduced. The adoption of this amendment will introduce a new institute, a so-called order to a natural person, which will mean in practice that people can be closed in isolation or quarantine without the possibility of proper judicial defense, and even without fulfilling legal grounds for their regulation. A new provision is made for officials to notify the isolation of the person concerned orally or in writing, including by means of remote means. This leaves no need for the authorities to issue a written decision with a justification against which they can appeal, which is completely unimaginable in a democratic society for restricting personal freedom. The amendment introduces new possibilities for limiting children's rights to basic and continuing education with all drastic psychological, social and economic impacts. It will lead to further segregation of children, exclusion from the collective and destruction of children's lives. The Minister of Health will be new, and I would like to point out that outside Parliament's control, to decide on restrictions on sports activities, children's camps or farmers' markets, all of which are activities where no risk has been demonstrated. Nevertheless, it will be up to one person to decide whether or not they will take place. Let me remind you why the pandemic law was originally adopted. It was meant to be a response to the supposed risks at the time, and this was only temporary. Now that we know that the risks have not been confirmed, and in our country, the version of coronavirus omicron, which is epidemiologically comparable to influenza disease, comes the government instead of ending all restrictions with a proposal that will allow it to take full control of the laws, rights and freedoms of people. The government claims that it is necessary to discuss this amendment in a state of legislative emergency, because if it fails to discuss it by the end of February, it will not have the tools to deal with the epidemic. Please, this isn't a medical battle with a disease. This is an attempt to legalize illegal measures for the future, which has so far been criticised by the Supreme Administrative Court. This amendment is an open step towards totalitarianism, when all legislative power is effectively taken over by the Ministry of Health, Interior and Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment is Mr. Vladimír Zlínský and once again logged in twice, so I'm giving you a ten-minute stopwatch. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u99	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the Dear Government, who is here, Minister of Health, so, Minister, I am not an erected lawyer so that I can accurately evaluate the amendment to the law that we are now debating. However, I would like to point out that I have not found anywhere in the wording of the law in question the definition of epidemic terms, pandemic emergency, covid-19 and countries with an increased risk of disease. Without fulfilling the exact content of these terms, this law puts into the hands of the government and three ministers - that is no longer the case if I have understood this well - and their advisers give unlimited executive power to decide without control the powers of legislative and judicial and to limit, regulate and regulate the operation of society according to their intentions under the pretext of combating the pandemic of covid-19. [[17.30 hours]] The concept of an epidemic should be precisely filled with figures for which pathological agent and for what proportion of the number of objectively ill and disease spreading to a given population is declared. From the definition it is clear that it cannot only be positively tested by PCR test, but it must be clearly defined whether and how long the positive tested person has been a symptom or a signless source of infection for its surroundings. In other words, we cannot declare each positive person tested as a previous or current source of infection, since he can only be the bearer of genetic information from the destructed virus on his surface. The notion of pandemic emergency is an even greater mystery to me, as we can logically remain in pandemic emergency for an unlimited period of time. Without its precise definition in a similar way to the previous term, this concept cannot be quantified in any way and thus objectively provides for the termination of the scope of this Act. Another item for quantification in the case of pandemic emergency should be hospital occupancy, and especially intensive care units, and the number of deaths of persons with a clear cause of death on covid-19, not with covid-19. I didn't find anything like that in the law. The term covid-19. SARS-CoV-2 virus is a RNA virus. These viruses are known to mutate rapidly, since RNA is a relatively unstable molecule and RNA polymerases that synthesize this macromolecule are not exactly controlled as DNA polymerases in DNA synthesis. Due to the number of infected individuals worldwide, this creates an unimaginable number of different variants of the virus, and those that are best able to reproduce and spread in a susceptible population are the most successful. Thus there is a relatively rapid transformation of the genetic composition of the virus and thus its characteristics is the way of natural selection. If we issue a law that responds to a specific serotype of this virus, this law becomes essentially obsolete and will require repeated major revisions, as the virus itself will change. At present, the virus is changing towards greater infectiveness and less pathogenicity, i.e. hazard. This is demonstrated by statistics from countries where the pandemic variants of omicron have already peaked and the health systems of these countries have not been overloaded. It is therefore surprising that the law, which is sewn by a hot needle on previous pathogenic variants, is being amended rapidly and completely neglected by the current development of the properties of this virus. The concept of a country with an increased risk of disease transmission. Again, it is not defined in the law. It should be based on a clear definition of the epidemic in point one. It can be manipulated. Citizens returning from abroad illegally persecuted on the basis of inaccurate data provided by other states. The pandemic law is the basis on which all the nonsense segregation measures of previous and current executive powers, which, from my point of view, have a single objective, are built, to force all our populations to repeat and endless vaccination against covid-19 disease, in a situation where European regulatory drug authorities also recognise the dangers of the short-term repeated vaccination of mRNA vaccines. It is also clear that covid-19 is gradually domesticated in our population, thus becoming less dangerous. In addition, the latest development of the epidemic is falling the last argument of vaccination supporters, i.e. the collapse of the health system due to its congestion by unvaccorded citizens. In the case of support for segregation measures in this situation, it can be argued that the government wishes and supports the distribution of our society and the animosity that this creates. This is completely contrary to what she promised before and shortly after the election. How will they unite our society? If unity is to be enforced and controlled through unconstitutional regulations and laws, then it can be understood. It just needs to be told to citizens, not to play the great democrats. It is becoming apparent that the pandemic law is heading towards greater control and persecution of citizens, including through digital electronic services and technologies, with the aim of wanting or unwanted, I cannot precisely answer this, the gradual introduction of a system of social credits similar to the Chinese model. That's what I was talking about early in the morning. And this is what the government, which declares itself democratic and defines itself against the Chinese, according to them, totalitarian regime. Citizens, colleagues, need to be told whether we want to live in a future digital control system for each of us, or whether we want to defend the basic human freedoms for which our ancestors have died, or if we want to give them up in favour of our convenience and temporary fulfilment of our consumer needs, which this system will equally deprive us of. If you approve of this law, you will start writing the first chapter called 2022 - the year of the velký bratr's return. For these and for many other reasons that have been and will be mentioned, I cannot in any way support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Štefanová Iveta will be ready. In the meantime, I'll read the apology. On 2. 2. Mrs Balaštíková apologises from 5:17 a.m. to midnight for reasons of work. Mrs Eva Decroix apologizes for today's meeting from 18:00 until the end of the day for personal reasons. Then I have an apology from Mr Václav Král today from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, for health reasons. And I dare you... or I apologize to the Minister of the Environment, Anna Hubáčková, from 16.30 pm to the end of today's meeting day, for work reasons. Well, that was an apology, and now I have the floor of Mrs Štefanová, twice registered, so I'm giving her a ten-minute stop sign. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce some important facts here to the discussed amendment to the so-called pandemic law, which could escape the necessary attention of your or the general public for a number of legal details. The original pandemic law, but more and more clearly its proposed amendment, began to reveal something very important to us. Something that's been hidden so far and the media hasn't talked much about yet. It is a process of pre-prepared destruction of democratic society in its most basic principles. Let me remind you that the Constitution of the Czech Republic declares that the source of all state power is the people. People choose elected representatives based on their trust and preferences in the process of free democratic elections. In no way do people choose freely, elect civil servants, ministers, ministerial representatives and their advisors and purposefully assembled expert commissions. The original pandemic law and the proposed amendment have already broken the system of representative democracy in an unforgivable and inexcusable way. Indeed, the pandemic law and its amendment mean an unprecedented transfer of power and control over fundamental human rights and the freedoms of the people of this country to someone completely different. [[17.40 hours]] In any case, the process of fundamental change in the management of our entire society through the adoption of the pandemic law and the possible adoption of its amendment has shown itself and thus revealed when anyone with eyes and ears can see and hear this process. And I believe that not just tens of thousands will see it in time, but millions of citizens of the Czech Republic, but above all, I firmly believe that we, all of us here in the Chamber of Deputies, will see this process in the background of the pandemic law in time. I would like to remind you that the key body of our state executives during the pandemic, i.e. the Ministry of Health, has already issued dozens of illegal and unconstitutional pandemic measures, including measures with absolutely fundamental social consequences. By the Pandemic Law and its amendment, all of you who will vote for it will send a message to the entire general public, a message that you have decided not to fulfill what the entire public legitimately expects of you, and you are giving power in almost unlimited form to someone else. I ask you to absolutely avoid this reprehensible message for all citizens of this country. Let us at this moment prevent any transfer of excessive power and government over fundamental human rights and freedoms to the authorities of the executive power of the state, to their officials and hidden masters and advisors behind them. Let us prevent a further extension of this bad pandemic law as a whole. I believe that this law, essentially unconstitutional, should be abolished. In the event of approval, the amendment will put a legal instrument in the hands of the current government to establish a covidate dictatorship. First of all, the amendment to the pandemic law on emergency measures in an epidemic of covid-19 disease gives the government an instrument to use this law for an unlimited period of time. In theory, therefore, the government could shut down our country for preventative reasons into the lockdown restrictions for a few years. Even in the amendment, the government proposes that the possibility of issuing various anti-covoid measures should also apply to the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. This amendment gives the Minister of Health the power to interfere directly with people's lives, education, work and privacy. Under the guise of protecting their health, one person will be able to limit fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, even for no relevant reason. The amendment also allows the Ministry of Health to limit business, operation of primary and secondary schools, to close the outdoor sports grounds, swimming pools at any time, to be able to restrict and cancel private events without having to declare any emergency situation. This amendment is presented to us by the government for discussion and approval in a state of legislative emergency, even though, as has already been mentioned many times, it contains many shortcomings and irregularities, such as, as I mentioned yesterday, the possibility of reporting quarantine or isolation only by SMS. I am afraid that, given the authenticity of the message from the unknown number, this will only lead to the system being overwhelmed and the actual extension of this notification process, and I am also afraid that it is not technically possible to ensure that it is not used in mass and does not lead to chaos. This, too, is one of the issues that must be settled before such a law can be discussed and discussed. Rather, we should focus on the early and effective treatment of the sick and let others live. Instead of common sense, the government is in captivity to multinational corporations, which have not only an ideological interest in restricting freedoms and civil rights but also an economic interest on this matter. And as we see in the amendment to the pandemic law, these things often go hand in hand. This can be seen, for example, in tests that are largely funded by the state. Can we say that the government acts as a proper caretaker, whether it is past or present? Of course not. On the contrary. He throws money away for millions of tests, the effect of which is at least questionable, instead of putting money directly into Czech health care, medicine, treatment, equipment and staff salaries. The Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and a number of laws are being violated here. The state of the pandemic emergency, unlike the emergency situation, which must be revised for its exceptionality every month by the House, is now giving a blank check to the Minister of Health with a slight exaggeration to anything he can think of. The judicial defense against lawlessness under the pandemic law is ineffective, as we have seen in the past. Although citizens may turn to the court, it is of no use to the passing time. The possibility of legal defense is thus set. Before the Supreme Administrative Court decides, his decision, however right, is completely useless. So we have often witnessed in the past the obligation to follow illegal measures that followed other illegal measures, and the possibility of defending this was theoretically there, but in practice it was completely failing, as if it were not. The government should therefore forget about the attempt to amend this totalitarian standard and directing absolute unchecked power in the hands of one policy of the ruling coalition, without the possibility of effective legal defence of citizens against its abuse and without any revision, and should only allow one quality law on the protection of public health. That is, to make the legislation general for all diagnoses equally or mutatis mutandis, so that clear competences are given to the hygiene authorities as the professional authorities of the state administration. The House should therefore abolish the pandemic law as a whole. The extension of the pandemic law is thus merely an attempt to maintain obedience more and more often to rebel citizens who do not want to accept the restriction of freedom and civil rights. It is this goal that fears maintained at first sight by pointless regulations serve. If the government insists on the proposal and enforces it without public debate against the will of the citizens by force, it can most likely count on their hard resistance. The possible consequences thus fall entirely to the detriment of the current government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u102	Thank you, Madame. Another apology I dare read, 2. 2. between 17.45 and midnight, or until the end of the day, Mr Jan Volný apologizes for health reasons. We will continue the general debate. Another enrollment is Mr. Oldřich Černý, I also see two applications, so I will let him have a ten-minute limit. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable citizens of the Czech Republic, I will allow myself to follow up on my last speech and allow myself to return to the e-mails sent to us by citizens. Those e-mails are really thousands, they're e-mails from desperate citizens who don't want dictatorship in our country. And I thank these citizens for supporting us. We support them and fight for them. And unlike other parliamentary parties, we keep our pre-election promises. Again, the thousands of people who have written that they are not SPD voters, they are party voters and the movement of the entire political spectrum. I'm actually fighting here at the moment, and my colleagues at the SPD also, even for your constituents, for the citizens who voted for the government coalition, but who, in many cases, already regret it when they see you driving our country back a few decades. After all, you want to introduce a new dictatorship and restrictions on human rights and freedoms, that is what we fought against in 1989! You want to implement it again when you introduce the same practices. Is that the change you promised? Before the election were full of streets of your passwords about change, everywhere was change. But we don't want the change that's gonna throw us back a few decades. We really don't want that. And those thousands and thousands of desperate citizens who write to us don't want that either. Now, let me quote the snippets from those e-mails that I'm interested in: Hello. I hereby resolutely wish to express my opposition to the unconstitutional pandemic law which will be put forward for approval. I will fight against any interference with our fundamental human rights. For me, for my children, for our free life and for our free country, which our governments have been in debt and constantly destroying for two years. All those sitting on high places have no idea what this covideo game has to do with the destructive consequences of people's lives. We've had enough of this, which is why I'm asking you to stop all measures and allow us to have a normal life again. [[17.50 hours]] The pandemic law is the final step towards mass protests and strikes. And since I work with people myself, I know very well that most of them have had enough. With Denisa ., a working decent citizen, a mother of two beautiful daughters and a person who likes the country in which she lives. Please don't allow her destruction. Thank you. Next is a request for another I.D.: Hello. I beg you as a citizen of this republic and a mother of two children on the threshold of adulthood, do not allow the proposed amendment to the pandemic law to be approved. We haven't lived in two years. As citizens of the second category, we have no right but to go to work, school, shopping and home. I don't want to live like this anymore, especially under worse conditions. I don't want to listen to my children want to get sick with the right disease so they can go with their peers where they can't. I don't want to sign any more notes that they don't follow epidemiological measures at school, I want to go swimming with them, to the theater, to the movies, to the restaurant. Are we absolutely healthy people and eager to get sick? And yet another threat is coming, more restrictions, more severe punishments, and maximum restrictions on human rights and freedoms. Please take advantage of all the possibilities and block the acceptance of the horror. Sincerely Dana K., Sylva a Jindřich. Next: I am the mother of two children, a nurse, a humanist, a lifetime fighter against the repression of human rights of any minority, a fighter against the repression of injustice, and I dare say that a good man and a good citizen of the Czech Republic, a country I love above all else. I beg you all to take the leftovers of common sense and vote against the adoption of the law. This law is a factual establishment of totalitarianism, a denial of the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. Something like this should never start in a democratic state. What is the government's agenda that the law wants to push through speedy driving at a time when hospitals empty themselves from covid patients, where there is an omicron mutation rampant, which is only a mild respiratory disease for the vast majority of the population, at a time when we already know very well that the vaccine does not protect against current mutations, does not protect against transmission, protect against infection, perhaps and for a very short time protect against severe progression? Please ask the government officials, too, why is this quick need to enforce this? Why for an unlimited period of time? Why, at a time when some countries are abolishing all measures, because their governments have understood that there is no cure for pandemics other than learning to live with it and focusing on primary care. Thank you. With respect, Irena V. Furthermore, honourable Member, I would like to address you in this way and also publicly express my concerns in the context of the amendment to the Pandemic Law. For 30 years, I've been working in the medical field at an immunology-allergological lab as an expert, a non-medical professional. For 20 years, I have been dealing with immunological monitoring of patients after surgery and organ transplants. Day after day I interpret findings of laboratory examination and together with colleagues from other fields we compose a unique and highly subjective mosaic that allows to propose the most appropriate therapeutic procedure for each patient. Based on my experience, I can confirm that it is difficult to apply one single treatment procedure suitable for all. What about the patient, the individuality, the only pure and inimitable original. What helps one can hurt another. For example, someone can replace the same medicine with shovels, and another one is too much for the tip of a knife. My work has taught me the truth, the responsibility, the need to make my own decisions. She taught me to carefully consider the benefits and risks of all decisions, knowing that there is always something of both. With any choice in our lives comes a profit, but it is necessarily and necessarily balanced by some loss or threat. My work has taught me humility, respect for life and death and, above all, trust. Trust in your own intuition and trust in everyone's intuition. Our patients are adults, able to make separate decisions and choose from different proposed alternatives. Choose from procedures to solve your health problems. Their decision needs to be respected. He doesn't want to protect or heal anyone unless the sick decide to cooperate for themselves. [[not possible]] Actively and voluntarily participate in your recovery. No one can be forced to treat. No one can be healed by violence, no one can be protected from disease by violence. Based on so far written, I see as a very unfortunate way to solve the SARS-CoV-2 problem through bans, commands and other pressure measures leading to the reduction of normal activities. The necessary starting point for a properly functioning immune system is the optimal physical fitness and psychic well-being, to which the above certainly does not contribute. Perhaps it would be worth considering providing the general public with a set of expert recommendations for personal protection. To offer true and up-to-date information regarding the spread of infection, various options of protection, including vaccination. Most adult populations can be responsible for their health and do not need national supervision by means of bans, regulations and coercive measures. It can assess the risks and benefits of individual recommendations and choose the most appropriate ones for itself, with which it meets the most internally. After two years, it is more than obvious that the pressure and restriction of human rights and freedoms is more counterproductive than beneficial, and more and more is the impression of totalitarian practices. You're breaking up the company for nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your performance. And now, Mrs Marie Pošarová is duly registered. She's got two applications, which means she'll be running for ten minutes. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u105	Thank you for the floor. honourable Members, Madam President, the amendment now under discussion to the pandemic law is unacceptable to the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, and I would like to say that, on the basis of the monitoring of events and activities in the public area as well as to most citizens and social groups, it is unacceptable. The new government, headed by Prime Minister Petr Fiala, is essentially trying to copy through this amendment to the pandemic law all the measures and powers of the government that have been used only in the context of a properly declared emergency state, so that it can, on the outside, hypocritically tell people that it does not want to declare emergency status in any way, but in fact will be able to take exactly the same steps within the new and fully purposefully created pandemic law, which is the joint work of the parties to this government and the ANO movement and which is also basically only an otherwise named emergency state and, of course, in my view, is clearly unconstitutional. If we say very critically about the proposed amendment, this is an attempt to circumvent the standard applicable laws, including the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. After 32 years, the law which will take away their fundamental rights and freedoms from citizens of the Czech Republic can enter into force, something totally unacceptable. This proposal of the pandemic law will also remove people's right to judicial protection, or even here the winged one applies: forward to the past. In the case of the amendment to the pandemic law, this is also an unacceptable strengthening of the power of the government and executive power, especially with regard to selected administrative authorities, in particular the Ministry of Health and in the amendment to the pandemic law, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, not only with regard to citizens themselves, but also with regard to other public authorities and public authorities, including courts. [[18.00 hours]] This is unacceptable on principle and on the substance of the matter, as there will be a weakening of both the democratic system and the system of representative parliamentary democracy. The current government wants an instrument in its hands, precisely on the basis of an amendment to the pandemic law, which would allow it to behave in an unlimited manner as it did in declaring an emergency situation in the country, without the House of Deputies voting on it. The current government simply wants to go around the Chamber of Deputies on purpose. This is a clear circumvention of the Constitution, and the current government is not acting democratically but authoritarianly. I believe that the pandemic law, including its amendment, is contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, to the international conventions that the Czech Republic is bound by, for example, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in connection with the application of biology and medicine as well as other international legal documents. It is also worth mentioning that the government coalition is trying to enforce this amendment in a state of so-called legislative emergency, which is legally intended only for cases of exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are fundamentally threatened or when the state is in danger of significant economic damage and when compliance with these conditions must be sufficiently demonstrated by the government. It is a fundamental principle of democratic rule of law that legislative parliamentary power should adopt the laws prescribed by the ordinary and standard legislative process. The violation of this process is then unacceptable interference with the very foundations of democracy. In the case of an amendment to the pandemic law, it is clear that none of the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency is fulfilled. It should also be noted that although the number of positive PCR tests for the presence of covid-19 is currently increasing, on the other hand, the number of people with this disease is constantly decreasing. Arguing that this could be otherwise in the future is certainly not a sufficient reason for declaring a state of legislative emergency, regardless of the fact that the current mutation of the omicron virus is proven to be less risky than the previous variants, nor is it justified again as regards the extension of powers to issue emergency measures to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Covid-19 is affecting society. Soldiers and other staff of the Ministry of Defence structures, as well as police officers and staff of the Ministry of the Interior are not a particularly vulnerable group of residents. It is therefore completely illogical for these ministries to be able to impose restrictions only within their sphere of competence, which could lead to such an absurd situation where a certain part of the population - soldiers and police - will be limited in its rights in a way other than another group of residents, although the threat of disease is the same for all citizens, which once again creates a risk of unconstitutional conduct and subsequent judicial and constitutional actions. Petr Fiala's government is much harder than most of Europe with regard to reducing citizens' rights and freedoms in relation to coronavirus, and slowly more than most Czech immunologists, including Professor Prymula. Instead of telling us and, above all, citizens and entrepreneurs destroyed by two years of harsh restrictions, a clear date when they will end all covidic restrictions, including isolation, quarantine and covid passports, so quickly, hiddenly, not transparently and without public debate, in addition, unconstitutionally in a state of legislative emergency, they are presenting an amendment to the pandemic law, a law that gives the government and some of its ministers great power to introduce very hard restrictive measures without the approval of the Chamber of Deputies, but the main reason is rather the unconception of the government, the absence of any plan, the absence of courage. The current pandemic law ends on 28 February, and without its amendment, the government would no longer be able to issue targeted measures under the Public Health Act. Or he's gonna declare an emergency, and that's how he exposes his real intentions and cards. The government is arguing the very ending term of the current pandemic law, but that doesn't make sense. This is about obscuring the real situation, because if this were the case, the government will only propose a time limit for the extension of the law. But the government goes much further, because it also changes the content of the law and wants to take on the power to do such restrictions that it cannot do according to the present. The second thing is that she still did them, but in that case, the Supreme Administrative Court always intervened when such illegal measures were abolished. For example, it was about closing shops, restaurants or schools. Petr Fiala's government wants to take these powers with the amendment. It is therefore basically a supplement to the existing pandemic law on the lessons learned from the Supreme Administrative Court's judgments. To put it humanly, what was previously impossible to close under this law will be closed by the amendment. So why does the same government also say that it wants to release anti-covoid measures from March? It means one thing - she can't be trusted. I can therefore say for myself that I will not support this amendment to the pandemic law and I will try with my colleagues to abolish the existing pandemic law against which the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, as the only Czech parliamentary body, has always voted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u106	Thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit. And now Mr. Jiří Kobza is in the debate. You have two applications available, so you'll have ten minutes to run. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, good - what is it? - Evening. Many of the different aspects have already been said about the pandemic law, and I would also like to comment on it. What frightens me about this law is its simple abuse. Minister Válek has made it clear here that it is about the preparation of a law that should be prepared in case there is a wave. I must admit that I was quite interested in this aspect, because with the same principle I proposed another point yesterday at this meeting, the amendment to the Criminal Code on the suppression and prohibition of the spread of hate ideologies from the same purpose, from the same point of view, that the law be prepared here, that police and justice should have a priori instrument, if someone had simply come, someone here wanted to preach, so that from the beginning he knew that he would not get away with it, and not that he would be wielding some rights, free words and such things to know straight from the start. So I'm kind of interested in this because you guys threw it off my desk last night. But to come back. The law, as it is to be amended, gives our ultra-left government with extremists and a member of Antifa a huge tool that they can use. And I would have followed up on my speech from yesterday when I was talking about developments in Canada, because I consider it to a large extent illustrative of what is rushing at us, and it is quite possible that it will not take that long. [[18.10 hours]] As you know, there are extensive protests in Canada against covido measures. Originally, they started to vaccinate for trucks that drove across the border, but then it went up and spread to other things. And according to the latest reports, we have information that over 50,000 trucks went to Ottawa as the center of these protests. I don't know if any of us can imagine 50,000 trucks in one city. Not me, I confess. And I have a great fantasy. Prime Minister Trudeau refused to talk to them, called them a marginal minority, and then fled with his family. Trudeau is an interesting figure at all, because some American commentators call him a dictator who wants to create an Orwell 1984-style empire or call him Castro of Castro. To come back. I think that what is happening in Canada should be watched with great attention, because let us not forget that at the same time the protests against the covido measures are also taking place in the Western European countries and also in Slovakia, although our media is stubbornly silent about them as part of their objective, independent and apolitical intelligence that they feed us when they have the opportunity. So I'd be very careful with the law here, as it's being amended, because the possibility of abuse is high. And I have to admit, I don't understand why, if it's a law that's being made preventively, as well as the amendment I was talking about, why it has to be agreed in an accelerated legislative procedure. I have to admit, it makes me feel like I've missed something, something is just going to happen, what the law is supposed to do, and that's why it needs to be done as quickly as possible. Because if he went through a standard process, it could be improved, it could be discussed in committees, in plenary. And I believe that we could also make the amendment usable, but at the same time it didn't rob our people of their freedom and their lives, because, for example, the fines that are there are from another world. It reminds me of former Minister Drábek, who, in the same way, was actually yelling out here with crazy eyes, how it is necessary to introduce liquidation fines for all tradesmen who dare to employ someone with the svarc system. I was wondering where he got out of. On the one hand, we are enchanted with democracy here, but I cannot resist the impression that we all see democracy differently. And I'm a conservative Democrat. For me, democracy is just one, and I refuse to serve under various attributes by purposeful bending of laws and the like. Because with democracy, as the American proverb says, it's like beef. Once there's any adjective before that, it's always a meatball. So any kind of democracy, liberal and so forth, it just stops being a democracy. If we make a decision - and I say, first and foremost, that I can never agree with this proposal, of course, I could never look anyone in the eye if I agreed - if the House decides to limit the area of freedom and free conduct and the actions of citizens in this way, it simply ends in democracy. It's a dictation. That's a hundred-seven dictation here. And I believe, at least according to the correspondence I get, that voters are watching it very closely. And they're watching what this novel really means to them. I got a couple thousand e-mails, and I have to say, the vast majority of them weren't typified, where people begged me to fight to do something about it. Of course, I promised them we'd do our best. But there's only 20 of us. We're doing everything we can in 20 people. There weren't many in Thermopylae, either. Of course, we as the SPD have a political attitude and an ideology. And the main point of ideology is that we work for people, we try to protect them from similar laws, we try to protect them from the loss of freedom, the loss of decision making, we try to protect them from what some of us do, just look around the gray hairs of our fellow Members, we have experienced under the previous regime, and we know what we have to watch out for, we are sensitive about it, we have grown into it. And I think the worst thing we can do for our children and our grandsons - confess, I have both, and little children, and grandchildren - so bring them to a world where they will not be free, where they will have to obey orders as in the famous book of Orwellův, which was meant as a warning, not as a guide. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u108	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your performance. And now it is Mrs Nina Nováková's turn. Please, madam. Before you take the floor, I'd read the apologies. Minister of Transport Martin Kupka apologizes on Wednesday, February 2, from 18:00 to the end of the day for reasons of employment. Furthermore, Mr Hayato Okamura apologizes today from 17.45 to the end of the day - he writes here until Thursday 3. 2. until 9 a.m., for work reasons. Now Mrs Nina Nováková will speak and Mrs Vladimira Lesenská will prepare herself. Mrs Nováková has one application, so she will speak for a maximum of five minutes. Yes? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u109	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I would like to say in advance that I am a person who has been skeptical of the amendment to the pandemic law for a very long time. I am also a person who, to ask whether it is more important for politicians to protect civil liberties or, in some paternalistic way, thought that they were protecting their health, the answer for me is the answer: we are here because we are here to protect civil liberties. On the other hand, it is clear that in the turbulent time in which we are now living, we need to have some basis for applying some measures for the shortest possible time. Let me address the 100,000 people from this place who have already signed a petition against the pandemic law today. They're citizens who are active. And for me as an I.D., I would give them an A, because they have a great feeling that the division of state power should be balanced and that the Members who are elected by them should give their power to several ministries in a disproportionate way. [[18.20 hours]] Dear citizens, you've done it. You have proved that there have been amendments that have changed the amendment to the pandemic law in the sense that you wanted. You didn't want to put a great deal of authority in the hands of the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior. It's not there. You didn't want anyone sending you texts. You didn't want an undetermined person giving you quarantine information. It's not there. You wanted some kind of insurance when you think that the pandemic law is being applied disproportionately, that you can quickly reach your own, because you'll have someone to complain to. This has succeeded and I am glad that for these reasons I can raise my hand for the pandemic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u110	Thank you, too, Madame. And now it is signed up for the debate by Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, she has one application, so your limit will be five minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u111	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you once again for saving my application, which I have filed badly. [[Thank you.]] Madam President, my lord, my fellow Members, many arguments have already been made on the amendment to the pandemic law, many other arguments will undoubtedly still be made, not to mention the huge number of letters and e-mails that I suppose I have not only received, but also the rest of you. I will therefore mention only a few arguments - unlike my predecessor - against, and I consider these arguments to be quite fundamental. The first is that the proposed amendment to the pandemic law is undoubtedly an attempt to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens of the Czech Republic and, in a broader sense, it basically goes against the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. After all, the very effort to pass the law in a state of legislative emergency is already problematic, but we have already discussed this here. The proposed amendment also does not imply that it would work with a new variant of covid, which is omicron, although this variant of covid is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, the proposed restrictions are based on mutations that have spread and have had an impact on human health far more serious than the mentioned omicron. It's been demonstrated by numbers. While around 20,000 cases have increased daily in the last 20 days, we can see that the number of hospitalizations has, paradoxically, decreased since the beginning of December. Even more tightening screws, or restricting people's freedoms by adding new paragraphs, so in the light of these numbers, it doesn't make any sense to me. The fact that omicron is not one of the major mutations is an indisputable fact. After all, it is also mentioned by the scientific community, which believes that this option will eventually become essentially endemic, so it will be present and will not just disappear in the coming years. We just have to learn to live with her. Going the way of new legislation, which opens up room for further potential restrictions, only stimulates the legitimate concerns of citizens. The amendment raises fear not only in employees, but also in businessmen and employers. The law was to apply without a time limit, essentially an undetermined period of time in the original amendment, but that, if I had noticed, was resolved by the amendment, which has been read here and on the committee so far in the general debate. What is even striking is the fact that they will now be able to issue extraordinary measures, including the Ministry of Interior and Defence. This was again mentioned in the original draft amendment. Again, this has been amended by the quickly tabled amendment by the Government Members. I have criticized this fact here in yesterday's debate on the negotiation of legislation in a legislative emergency. So I could put another argument against here, but I won't hold back and I'll just turn to all of you to really consider whether, in this state and in this way, this serious amendment of the law really needs to be discussed. I thank all the citizens who supported us for their support, and I hope that in the process of this law, reason will prevail. We'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u112	Thank you, too, Madame. Mrs Karla Maříková is now registered, she has two applications, so ten minutes will run. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u113	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been invited here today to this extraordinary meeting to approve, not properly discuss the instrument that the government is supposed to need for the autumn cod wool. If you do not stop in a mute amazement about the fact that it is only February and the law could be properly discussed in the ordinary legislative process, as the use of the state of legislative emergency is not appropriate, the Prime Minister himself confirmed when he said that he hoped that the pandemic law would no longer be needed, i.e. the state of legislative emergency is clearly not here in the words of the Prime Minister himself. We are witnessing massive protests all over Europe, Canada, Australia, the USA, as well as in the Czech Republic against covid's illogical measures, which introduce governments as copycats and which are not effective in many ways in the fight against coronavirus, but are more effective in the fight against people. These are coercive means of obedience, humility, where people are gradually deprived of their rights and personal freedom under the cover of health protection. That it is not health protection, but obedience is evident, because the vaccinated person who can spread the disease is released everywhere without testing, even though he may be infected, but a healthy unscathed, who disobeyed and did not get vaccinated in order to protect his health or fear of being afraid of an experimental vaccine, is bullied, restricted to his rights and freedom. Or do you find it quite normal that a healthy - for example - worker who freezes out in the winter, builds us or repairs roads or stands somewhere for scaffolding and repairs houses can't at noon break into a hot soup restaurant to warm up a little, just because he doesn't want to get applied something that is voluntary and that doesn't prevent the disease and spread of infection, just because the Minister of Health probably needs to report as many vaccines as possible, since his predecessors probably bought so much that they don't know what to do with them now? This doesn't seem normal to me in a free democratic country. Although the Supreme Administrative Court has repealed this measure today, since vaccination is voluntary and what is voluntary cannot be enforced, and it certainly does not make it possible to segregate people. People who don't want to get vaccinated are dehonested and insulted. Governments and media deliberately call these people antivaxers even though they have all the proper vaccinations, but they have a different opinion and a different view of these untested vaccines, which we have conditionally approved. It has never happened in the past to launch a vaccine that would not have gone through a proper study, to know its long-term effects and to properly assess both benefits and risks. No one would ever dare in the past. No one will deny the existence of the virus. It cannot also be denied that there is effective treatment if it is timely, but no one can be deprived of the right to decide on their health and treatment, especially if there is no vaccine to prevent both the development and spread of the disease. If we lived in a democratic society, there would be discussions about different views, respect for the other side's view and opinion, but this is not the case. Those parties to our ruling five-calice, which are most protective of democracy, probably have nothing to do with democracy. For them, there is only one opinion, and it is the right one for them. This is what is seen in the discussion of this pandemic law, which is a force-pression, is not a proper debate and will not be approved in a proper legislative process. The vaccination has become an idol of governments that have committed themselves to pharmaceutical companies that are as rich as manufacturers and test distributors. Hospitals came to their own, which were approved by above-standard authorities for covid beds before the covid wave. As many groups as possible were involved in the whole pier so that they would be willing to parrot one opinion and intimidate the nation of coronahysteria, which has been here for two years. Interest groups are getting richer, the state and the nation are getting poorer. [[18.30 hours]] By the amendment of the pandemic law presented today by the government, the government confirms that it probably does not want to end this hysteria and wants to continue to destroy the lives of all the classes of the population and does not want to stop. If you read the pandemic law and imagine its possibilities in practice, it really doesn't work. After 33 years, our country is once again in danger of freedom. This threat is the new pandemic law from the coalition government pen, against which not only citizens in the Czech Republic are rebelling, but also lawyers across the country are pounding the alarm. And no wonder. This law is an attack on the freedom of citizens, on their constitutional rights under the threat of draconian sanctions. This amendment to the pandemic law, under the pretext of protecting the health of citizens, gives three ministers almost unlimited power to intervene in the lives of citizens, to run a state without scrutiny and to Parliament. What is most disturbing is the approval of this amendment in a legislative emergency without the possibility of a proper discussion before which a democratic debate would take place. This government has already removed its mask without scruples, apparently with greed for power it will not stop even from violating constitutional rights. I am shocked by where the ODS has moved from the original protector of freedom to the pandemic law in the form in which it is presented. Now voters hoping for the right-wing ODS government see that the right-wing ODS government does not exist. She's the same as her coalition partners. They are only interested in democracy, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms beyond the borders of another state, other governments. They're good at criticizing that. But they forget to apply these rules to themselves and our citizens. But let's look at the individual parties in their agenda and how big democrats are on paper and how they really are. The ODS promotes individual freedom in its programme. So the ODS MPs will come to you with the contents of the amendment to the pandemic law that they correspond to what you are proclaiming? STAN, in turn, has in its programme: the basic value for us is free man and civil society. Members of the STAN movement, you may feel that a single person is to be restricted to fundamental rights, as is apparent from the amendment to the pandemic law. The TOP 09 has there again that it is a party respectful and asserting patriotic ideals, freedoms, humanism and so on. So I don't know if the amendment to the pandemic law has anything to do with freedom and the rule of law, I guess that can't be serious. And the pirát, they have there that discrimination puts artificial boundaries between people, and that's why you reject it. Well, I don't know, pirát, why haven't you guys been upset and resisted discrimination without being vaccinated? And KDU-ČSL has there that in political solutions it takes care of human dignity, personal responsibility, gentleness and so on. So far, I've only read about personal responsibility in the programming statement, and it doesn't look like it in practice. And this ruling five-calice even has in its programming statement that it wants a state that belongs to a democratic Europe and that knows that the values of freedom and democracy need to be effectively promoted and defended. Well, if you read the pandemic law, it doesn't look like it. Now your voters can compare what you have in your programming statement, in your programmes, and what you are really promoting. It has to be recalled that any segregation of certain groups is an inexhaustible offence for which sooner or later anyone who applies or applies this will be held responsible. A lot of lawyers point that out. I get a daily text and a call from people, both employees and businessmen. One desperate to bully employers, the other one on the part of the state, forcing them to bully employees and guests in food and accommodation services. This bullying must stop without conditions. The Czech Republic is a legal state and it is not possible for public interest to be built on the restriction of individual rights. By figuring that every citizen is a threat to public health, the government is forcing us to withdraw from our rights on the basis of the assumption that we can protect someone. It must be remembered that every totalitarianism has always been introduced to the well-being of citizens. By approving this rapid amendment, human rights and freedoms and the constitutional right of citizens of the Czech Republic could be greatly limited. Let us therefore remember before we approve this amendment, what we all promised at the beginning of our mandate, as the government coalition seems to have forgotten about it. Let us remind ourselves of the pledge made by the Member, who each of us has made. Sounds: I pledge my loyalty to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her constitution and laws. I promise on my honor that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience. The amendment to the pandemic law is not in accordance with the laws or the constitution, says a number of lawyers and experts, and each one of us who raises his hand for this law contradicts this promise that he made to the citizens of this republic. Because who else should obey the laws, constitutions and ensure that laws and constitutions are respected to citizens other than us legislators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u114	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Jan Síla is now in the debate. He's got two applications, which means he's gonna run twice five minutes, so you're gonna talk for a maximum of ten minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u115	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the amendment to the pandemic law in a few words. The existing pandemic law of 2021 is unconstitutional and contradicts the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The pandemic law substantially extends the power of a single administrative office to directly intervene in fundamental and other rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and was adopted a year ago for a relatively short period of time. The amendment to this law completely lacks a limit for limiting individual fundamental rights and freedoms, which can be seen as the most fundamental deficit of the proposal. The decision on them would lie purely in the hands of the Minister of Health, the arbitrary determination of the existence or absence of a whole palette of fundamental rights and freedoms. He could do so without limit as, given the persistent nature of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the risk of recurrence of the epidemic will be constant, so that the formal reason for issuing emergency measures will be present forever. This is a restriction of fundamental human rights to the extent that the court has not yet been called upon to do so. [[Loud call in the benches on the left.]] The submitted amendment is based on the epidemiological situation in the spring of 2021, but today, in our country, as in the rest of the world, the omicron option prevails -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u116	Ambassador, I'm very sorry to interrupt. I'd like to ask the left side of the hall for your votes to be muted. Thank you very much. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u117	Thank you. - which is clinically comparable to influenza. The restrictions cannot be considered necessary when it is more than obvious that the epidemiological situation is dramatically better, and in some countries they have already adapted to this new reality and repealed the anti-epidemic measures. The government has not explained why the standard standards contained in the Public Health Act are currently not sufficient and no epidemic threshold and other conditions under which restrictive anti-epidemic measures appear to be necessary are not yet established in the two years of the pandemic. The original pandemic law should not have become part of our legal order or our normal lives. I believe that this law and its amendment are contrary to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, as well as to the international conventions by which the Czech Republic is bound, or to the GDPR regulation, when it gives the Ministry of Health the power to create mobile applications for the purposes of epidemiological investigations, use and share data. In view of the other provisions of the bill, nothing seems to prevent the Ministry of Health from favouring users of such an application against others in the form of an emergency measure. It even allows the handling of personal data without the consent of the subjects, data completely outside the scope of GDPR Regulation. This might even give the Ministry more power to deal with, for example, so-called localization data than law enforcement authorities do. [[18.40 hours]] The SPD insists that if the Supreme Administrative Court has repeatedly stated the lawlessness of many of the emergency measures granted during the period of the current pandemic law, the primary duty of the State to regulate these measures rather than to amend the legislation so that similar interventions into the fundamental rights and freedoms of the people referred to by the Supreme Administrative Court are legal in the future. The State is bound by the decision of the court. It is unacceptable for state power to respond to the lawlessness of its previous emergency measures in any other way than to respect the decision of the court. In this case, the petitioner even admits that the aim of the amendment is to force the judicial authority to adopt in the future such various measures that are illegal at the moment, without the factual possibility of their qualified review by a thorough technical discussion, and in addition to that in the legislative emergency regime. We do not need a new regulation that grants the Ministry of Health extensive powers with a national impact that allows it to control life in a country without any control and without the need to demand emergency conditions, plus without time limits. There is no way that it is in the interests of citizens that the state should gain greater and greater control over their lives and can limit them for no reason at all without them defending themselves. The Czech rule of law contains sufficient legislation, whether it is a law on the protection of public health or a crisis law or a so-called pandemic plan, but it is the pandemic plan that should be the main instrument of the state in dealing with any epidemiological situation. I have absolutely fundamental complaints about the original version of the pandemic law, but I will also make some of the most fundamental comments on the current amendment proposal. The explanatory memorandum does not explain enough why the power to issue emergency measures should be extended to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. This could lead to a situation where a certain part of the population, such as soldiers, police officers, civil servants, will be limited to its rights in a completely different way than another group of residents. Such a situation is illegal, completely contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. In the light of other fundamental rights and freedoms which may be affected by exceptional measures on the basis of the proposal, the right to education should also be mentioned, in the case of universities, I prefer to leave out the historical parallels. Furthermore, I cannot ignore the possibility of restricting the right to healthcare. The extension of the scope of human rights and freedoms is therefore unacceptable. On point 8 of the amendment, I would mention - another restriction on the right of children to education guaranteed in particular by Art. 33 The Charter is unacceptable. The completion of the pandemic law on this point thus also constitutes a completely flagrant infringement of the Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 4 Charters. Next thing you know, the amendment introduces a new institute order to a natural person. In practice, this can therefore mean that not the law or decision of the public authority, but only some unnamed act, such as the SMS message, will restrict a person to his rights. A similar delegation is completely inadmissible in the constitutional state. The regulation of isolation or quarantine measures is a very crucial step. We strongly point out that in the Act on the Protection of Public Health, isolation can only be ordered in a person who has become ill with infectious diseases or signs of this disease. According to the petitioner, however, it should be ordered in this completely unacceptable form even in cases of a positive PCR test or antigen test. The proposed counter-constitutional efforts embodied in the amendment to the pandemic law must be rejected unconditionally and once and for all. Let us not allow the power of the state to get out of hand and people to have to take back violently what belongs to them - freedom and democracy, as it stands in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, Title Two, Section Two, Article 23. Let's think about the future of our children. All of us, sitting here, have the opportunity to vote in favour of the majority of the population. That is why I call you, do not approve of the government's amendment to the pandemic law. In these difficult times, I believe that you will not be greedy and some simply cowardly and show your patriotism, bravery and personal honor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Síla, with two applications, is now entered into the general debate, which means that you will be running for ten minutes. Please, you have the floor. [[Messenger. - Baby boy!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Karel Sládeček, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u119	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have studied a carefully proposed amendment to the so-called pandemic law. In my objectivity, I also asked for a legal analysis by the renowned lawyer, Mrs Jana Zwyrtek Hamplová. From her answer, I quote: The Czech Republic does not need a special law for one diagnosis. The pandemic law itself is strange. It introduces in our territory a long-term, i.e. without any revision in time, a state of pandemic emergency, i.e. unlike the emergency situation, which must be revised for its exceptionality every month by the House. He's giving a blank check to the Minister of Health with a slight exaggeration to anything he can think of at the moment. Thus, the state of pandemic emergency, for which there are no conditions, such as the number of patients or hospitalized, would be permanently in our territory, even if it was no longer de facto. No similar emergency situation, whatever it is called, may be introduced for an indefinite period without conditions, without checking the validity of certain periods of time, and should no longer be implemented permanently directly by law. The law, namely the Public Health Act, not the special law on one diagnosis, is intended to determine only the conditions under which it can be declared. It is similar to legal absurdity, as if the state of flood alert was declared for an indefinite period of time by law, even though it is no longer raining. It is necessary to ask why we do not have a special flu law when there were sometimes a million patients in the Czech Republic. Thus, the pandemic law, at the time of its adoption, was a different objective than health protection. [[had]] Its aim was to accumulate power in the hands of one person, a policy that would start to decide on serious restrictions on people without hygiene as to the legitimate body of the state administration. The Pandemic Law was adopted after the abolition of the emergency situation, which had already come too hard for the legislators. However, paradoxically something much worse was introduced by the pandemic law, including entrusting enormous central power over the entire territory of the Republic to the hands of one politician, the Minister of Health. The amendment extends this circle to the Minister of Defence and the Minister of the Interior. So, gradually, power is moving into the hands of a narrow trio of people who, out of Parliament entirely, can deal with citizens' rights as they please. All this without proper control of the court, the House or anyone else. There's never been such a transfer of powers before. Let us recall the dozens of illegal measures that were abolished, but those were what our citizens had to follow before the courts abolished them. Thus, an illegal state has become common here. A similar illegal state is now discrimination against unvacated people. The former Minister of Finance even stated that the measures taken under the pandemic law are being issued to make life difficult for disobedient citizens. One of the ministers even brazenly admitted to the camera that they knew about lawlessness, but why wouldn't they issue measures when the pandemic law allows them to do so? The judicial defense against lawlessness, in quotation marks, committed under the pandemic law is ineffective. You may turn to court, but it's useless for the passing of time. The possibility of legal defense is thus set. Before the Supreme Administrative Court decides, his decision, however right, is completely useless, because the measure does not apply long ago and is issued new and often again illegal. So we have often witnessed the obligation to follow illegal measures that followed other illegal measures, and the possibility of defending it was theoretical, but in practice it was completely failing, as if it were not. It cannot be tolerated that any State intervention cannot be legally defended. In the Czech Republic, we have two million legislation and we have legal order for others. The Pandemic Law is one of these weed standards because it increases the number of laws by another piece, which brings into the area it regulates, such chaos that with its understanding and especially application, experienced lawyers, lawyers and judges also have a problem. Why? That area is to be regulated by Law 258 on the protection of public health, and not by a legal standard that is applied directly once, at other times refers to the Public Health Act and changes many other laws. [[18.50 hours]] All of this is exploitable to people, because the laws and all legal steps on their basis are to be, above all, understandable, clear and certain. The pandemic law is everything but inexplicable, and the measure that on its basis saw the light of day, if it was legal at all, cannot be spoken of at all. End of quote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u120	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Mrs Lucie Šafránková is enrolled in the debate. She's got two applications, so she'll be running for ten minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u121	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said several times today, the members of the SPD have, from the very beginning, opposed the idea of a special pandemic law as an unnecessary legal standard, which is more than anything else a proverbial stick to the hand of executive power, a sort of bianko check for state authorities in the sense of how essentially arbitrary and without any reason and justification to limit citizens' rights and freedoms. In the case of this law, it is also an unacceptable and unjustified strengthening of the power of government, government power and, in particular, selected administrative offices, the Ministry of Health, and in the case of the approval of today's amendment, as well as the ministries of defence and interior not only over citizens, but also against other public authorities and public authorities, including courts. This is unacceptable by nature, because it is, among other things, a weakening of the balance between the democratic system and the system of representative parliamentary democracy itself. Thus, the pandemic law and its amendment are in no way what the government is issuing them for, that is, the necessary legislative instrument for managing the epidemic. No. As my colleagues from the SPD, who have long engaged in crisis management and the functioning of the state in emergency situations have repeatedly demonstrated, we are fully satisfied with the laws on crisis management and on public health protection for these purposes. Thus, the pandemic law is essentially a similar character to so-called empowering laws, whose main purpose is to facilitate executive power and its repressive authorities control and sanctioning the population and to circumvent Parliament and justice. In this sense, the amendment to the pandemic law is just a famous whipped cream on a poisoned cake, a material which increases the power of the authorities over citizens, and which also increases financial sanctions in a draconian way for violations of so-called exceptional epidemiological measures. It is basically that the government wants an instrument in hand through the amendment to the pandemic law that would allow it to behave for an unlimited period of time as if the country were in an emergency state, but without this emergency status being declared in a standard and legal manner, and without being dealt with and voted by the Chamber of Deputies. It's an unheard-of bypassing the Constitution. And in practice, this shows one thing in particular: the current government, as it claims, is not a grouping of liberal democrats, but rather an alliance of autocratic, authoritarian entities, with whom civil rights and freedoms are a thorn in the eye. And what is also very dangerous in this context is the fact that over the past two years, most of the so-called extraordinary covidic restrictive measures taken by the Ministry of Health and Government have been found illegal by the courts. And since these standards are not written by ministers who have exchanged after the elections, but by the bureaucratic apparatus of ministries, it is very clear that this practice will continue, namely that restrictive measures of civil life and entrepreneurship will continue to move beyond the scope of the law that we have known for 30 years, namely the rights of a democratic state where the old principle applies, that public authority and its authorities can only do what is legally permitted with respect to the constitution. This, with the adoption of the amendment we are talking about, would fall now and in the future, because the government wants to extend its repressive powers to the authorities so that the courts do not reach them, so to speak. Thus, the government wants to acquire an imaginary whip for all establishments under the trade law, including marketplaces and marketplaces. And not just them. It usurps the right to restrict artistic activities, i.e. services, where the place of their execution is not even the establishment itself. So it's an impenetrable attack on freedom of thought and artistic creation. The government wants to be able to regulate all types of sports and sports, including outdoor sports, which has been possible only under the said Act on the Protection of Public Health, not under the Pandemic Act. This is something so incredibly incredible and unacceptable that the government wants to limit citizens to the very last activity that they can, although to a limited extent, still operate and which is socially and physically clearly positive and beneficial, that I am running out of words. Moreover, limiting sport is a tendency which makes the health situation of the population, including the readiness and strength to fight diseases, including viral diseases, worse and weaker. This applies both to the required powers to issue extraordinary restrictive measures from the table for all types of educational establishments, for children from three years of age, including children's groups. Haven't our families with children been damaged enough in the last two years? Please keep your hands off them. It's shameful. And I merely happen to mention which other areas and places this government, which is referred to as defender of freedom and human rights, wants to restrict by extraordinary measures without discussion in Parliament, only from the official table: music and dance clubs, zoos and botanical gardens, museums, galleries, castles, castles, public libraries, observatory, planetariums, child recovery events, suburban camps. Unbelievable. And, above all, apart from the fundamental arguments of the political and constitutional ones, there is an endless line of arguments of law against the amendment to the pandemic law. They were well written by a group of lawyers around Dr. Tomáš Nielsen. Sometimes it is not necessary to discover America, but it is sufficient to quote expert and well-founded analysis of experts. And the amendment to the pandemic law and the law itself are mainly a matter of legal law. More precisely, when we focus on its content and purpose, the issue of lawlessness. That is why lawyers are the most qualified experts to analyse them, and we, elected representatives of the people, are obliged to articulate their arguments here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, in the broadest possible public space. Some legal arguments of this type have already been made, others have not. The point is that the amendment now allows the executive authority to prohibit the holding of general meetings of corporations, thereby violating other corporate rights and obligations, which would have far-reaching consequences, inter alia, of ownership and international interference. The repressive expansion of the amendment into the area of the right to education guaranteed by Art. 33 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The Additional Protocol to the International Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms even explicitly states: No one shall be denied the right to education. The then Czechoslovakia was even the first ever state of Central and Eastern Europe to become a party to this Convention. So it is very sad that today's government of the successor Czech Republic is going directly against this convention. Moreover, the proposal for an amendment is intended to affect the right to basic education, which is absolutely crucial and decisive from the point of view of the national future, and which has been damaged more than enough in two years. Moreover, this type of education represents one of the basic conditions of our national future, and also many professional studies have clearly shown that there is no epidemiological sense in limiting the education of children in primary schools. Let's finally let our children and their parents live. Let us honor their right to education, sports, the right to cultural enjoyment and the right to full life at all. That is why the amendment to the pandemic law must never see the light of day. [[19.00 hours]] Let me draw attention to some of the other risks of an undemocratic amendment to the pandemic law. And it's not just the risks that I see alone. I rely on the opinions of experts, especially lawyers, as well as experts in the field of personal data protection, health care or education, as well as the appeals of thousands of citizens who turn to us and who fundamentally reject the amendment and have legitimate concerns about it and its effects. Despite all previous assurances by the party's representatives of the current government coalition that this is a temporary matter, the pandemic law extends indefinitely. It is a violation of electoral promises and an unjustified usurpation of power by government bodies that have nothing to do in a free society. Moreover, the amendment would also hand over to various ministries or regional health stations hard repressive tools to limit people's lives and to restrict business. Hasn't that been enough? And these measures could be applied without their justification and explanation to the House and under certain conditions even without the consent of the government. This can't even be serious. [[Your time, Madame.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u122	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss our point of emergency meeting and I will continue to manage the meeting. Next up, Mr Radek Rozvoral is registered. He's got two applications, ten minutes in total. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u123	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to refer to the current Government Bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of Covid-19. In the SPD movement, we do not see a single reason for adopting the proposed pandemic law. We do not fully understand why the representatives of the government coalition are trying in every possible way to adopt this - here let me use the term - the proposed legislative pasquil, when it is actually a modification of the Emergency Act, on the basis of a brief hearing. This is fundamentally rejected by our SPD movement. The new government wants to have another instrument in its hands to impose on them measures that will best suit them. That is why we call on the government to stop deepening further discrimination against our citizens and to refuse to approve the proposal proposed by the pandemic law. It is necessary to address the current situation of our citizens and to adopt and propose laws that would improve the situation of our citizens, which occurred to them as a result of high inflation, increasing all food, services and energy. Our movement has already submitted a number of these amendments to the House, but the ruling coalition does not want to include them on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies and instead is constantly trying to promote the negotiation of the pandemic law and correspondence voting for Czech citizens from abroad. So, please, all reasonable-minded Members who represent our citizens here, let us finally start dealing with the necessary laws for them. I do not want to read here the whole proposal for a pandemic law, but I certainly must mention the provisions relating to the definition of specific offences and their sanctions. According to Section 10, an offence shall be committed by a legal or business natural person if he fails to comply with an emergency measure pursuant to Section 2 (2) (a) of the Code of Conduct. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Article. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) or (i) a law on the protection of public health, the purpose of which is to eradicate or re-establish an epidemic of covid-19. I will now read to all the sanctions proposed. For the offence referred to in paragraph 1, a fine of up to CZK 3 000 000 may be imposed in respect of non-compliance with the exceptional measure referred to in Section 2 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (b), (e) or (i) if failure to comply with an emergency measure pursuant to Article 2 (2) (a) or (b) or (e) or (i) Article 4 (1) (a) (i) have occurred in the provision of health or social services; CZK 1 000 000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d); CZK 500,000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c), (f) g), (m), (o), (p), (q), (s) or (t); CZK 100,000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) in cases other than those referred to in (a); CZK 50,000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) or (j); up to CZK 3 000 000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 69 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) or (i) a law on the protection of public health, the purpose of which is to eradicate or re-establish an epidemic of covid-19. In determining the amount of the fine for the offence referred to in paragraph 1, which consists of non-compliance with an exceptional measure pursuant to Section 69 (1) (b). Article 4 (1) (a) (b) or (i) the Act on the Protection of Public Health, account shall also be taken of the upper limit of the fine, which may be imposed for a similarly serious offence consisting of failure to comply with an exceptional measure pursuant to Article 2 (2) (b) or (i) of the Act on the Protection of Public Health. 2. Where the offence referred to in paragraph 2 is an offence referred to in point (a) of paragraph 2. (a) has been committed repeatedly after the decision on the same offence has been taken, a fine of up to CZK 4,000,000 shall be imposed. Furthermore, where the offence referred to in paragraph 2 is committed by an employee of a legal or undertaking natural person on the basis of the order of that legal or undertaking natural person, even if the employee initially refused to act under the order of that legal or undertaking natural person, the maximum amount of the fine referred to in paragraph 2 may be increased by a quarter. I will also state the wording of Section 11 of the proposed pandemic law, applicable to natural persons: A natural person shall commit an offence by failing to comply with the emergency measures referred to in Article 2 (2) (a). The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the application of this Article. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) or (i) a law on the protection of public health, the purpose of which is to eradicate or re-establish an epidemic of covid-19. For the offence referred to in paragraph 1, a fine may be imposed until: CZK 1 000 000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (b), (e), (i) if the failure to comply with an emergency measure pursuant to Article 2 (2) (a), (b), (e), (i). Article 4 (1) (a) (i) have occurred in the provision of health or social services; CZK 500,000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d); CZK 100,000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c), (f) or (g), (o), (p), (q), (s) or (v); CZK 50,000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h), (j), (l) or (m) and (n) or CZK 30,000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure pursuant to § 2 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (i) in cases other than those referred to in point (a). Further up to CZK 1 000 000 in the case of non-compliance with the exceptional measure under § 69 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) or (i) a law on the protection of public health, the purpose of which is to eradicate or re-establish an epidemic of covid-19. In determining the amount of the fine for the offence referred to in paragraph 1, which consists of non-compliance with an exceptional measure pursuant to Section 69 (1) (b). Article 4 (1) (a) (b) or (i) the Act on the Protection of Public Health, account shall also be taken of the upper limit of the fine, which may be imposed for a similarly serious offence consisting of failure to comply with an exceptional measure pursuant to Article 2 (2) (b) or (i) of the Act on the Protection of Public Health. 2. Where the offence referred to in paragraph 2 is an offence referred to in point (a) of paragraph 2. (a) has been committed repeatedly after the decision on the same offence has been taken, a fine of up to CZK 2,000,000 shall be imposed. A natural person shall be released from responsibility for committing an offence if he has committed it on the basis of his employer's instructions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely how the sanctioning of our citizens, who will violate the measures set out in this proposal for a pandemic law, has been carefully addressed, despite the amendment tabled by colleague Decroix, which reduces certain sanctions. Instead of addressing the worsening financial situation of citizens as a result of government inaction, the government wants to adopt laws to alleviate this situation for citizens, so the so-called disobedients still want to sanction more. We must not let that happen in a democratic setting-up. Citizens have their rights and freedoms secured by the Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This must be borne in mind and these guaranteeing rights and freedoms must be ensured by citizens. [[19.10 hours]] In addition to those offences, specifically those who will deal with these offences. In practice, this will mean that the main task of police officers is to spy on citizens and deal with imposing fines and enforcing them. Where is the next prestige of the Police of the Czech Republic and its members who in many cases do not agree with this wording of the law? Once again, it will contribute to further division of our society and the emergence of negative moods. The police certainly have many other tasks in order to ensure the security of citizens and, above all, to carry out their mission to help and protect them. In addition, citizens will have this penalty recorded in the criminal record. Once again, I call you out of this place, please, let us stop harming our citizens, let us not forget that these are decent working people who pay and pay taxes, from which we too are paid. So please, let's not forget that. Allow me to continue to present my dissenting position on the amendment to the pandemic law. In order to deal with emergency situations, the Czech legal environment already contains several laws. The Czech Republic does not need any new pandemic law. The current state of the pandemic is different than it was a year ago. Although we are witnessing a high number of positive cases, statistically, the number of serious cases and people placed in intensive care units is far from reaching the situation as it was a year ago. For this reason, the government should consider releasing the measures. Specifically, the SPD is asking for the abolition of all measures and the return of our society to normal life. Let people live, work, and make this difficult time easier because of the price increase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, including keeping time. Mr Richard Brabec, where he has the second five minutes, is now duly registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u125	Thank you. I'm sure I won't use this luxury time. The amendment will not receive my vote either, but let me give a very brief explanation of the amendment by Mr Vondrák who asked me to do so. Then I will join him in a detailed debate. This is Amendment 319. The proposal aims to clarify the powers of the Governor vis-à-vis the Regional Hygiene Station in the field of emergency measures. The experience of combating the epidemic has shown the need for close cooperation between the commanders with regional sanitation stations, and for improved cooperation it is proposed that the commander of the region be entitled to call on the relevant regional sanitation station to declare emergency measures, after consultation in the crisis staff of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u126	Thank you, too. I am currently registering Mr Marek Novák's factual remark. It doesn't, okay, so I'm erasing a point of fact and I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. If that is not the case, I do not see anyone, so I remind you that I am ending the general debate. I am now opening up a detailed debate, where I am registering four applications, and I will ask that the amendments be read and then justified. First is Mr Jan Hrnčíř, second Mr Drahoslav Ryba and others. Before I give you my word, I will ask you, colleagues, to be quiet, because amendments will be loaded and the voting procedure will then be formed, so let the rapporteur know what we will be voting on. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to present my amendment very quickly here, it is very simple, it repeals the pandemic law on the day of its publication, because we really consider this law redundant. In addition, it has covid-19 in the name of the disease, and yet it is supposed to be a sort of universal law. We say that amending a law on public health protection or a crisis law would be enough. So I hereby sign up for my amendment under number 306. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u128	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Drahoslav Ryba to present his amendment to us. Mr Karel Haas will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u129	Good evening. I am reporting or signing up for Amendment 303 to my amendment. and the detailed justification is contained in its own amendment. If that's all it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u130	Yes, it's enough like this. Thank you. I ask the rapporteur to submit an amendment so that he can have it at his disposal. Thank you. I will now ask Mr Karel Haas to prepare Mr Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in a detailed debate, I am signing up for the written amendments read in writing under 297 and 317 and their detailed reasoning, which was expressed in the general debate by Eva Decroix. I will stress only two technical points that react somehow to the course of the general debate. First. The general debate showed a little bit, as if these amendments were made without, say, proper discussion, so I just wanted to stress that they arose during last week after a very detailed discussion with all the gessional ministers, they arose after discussion even with the Senate Health Committee and arose after discussion with the full expert leadership of the Ministry of Health, which took place last Thursday and Monday this week two expert discussions. That's the first point. And the second comment, which responds to relatively frequent references to the unconstitutional nature of the government amendment to the pandemic law, so I just wanted to point out that the pandemic law as a whole passed the constitutionality test of the Constitutional Court by a plenary finding of 20/2021 issued in December last year. So these are the points I wanted to highlight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Richard Brabec is another member of the detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, as I have announced, I am signing up for the amendment, which is recorded under 319 in the system, which I have already mentioned in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u134	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. This is Mr. Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u135	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to an amendment which is purely technical and addresses the problem that theoretically there could be a build-up of proposals in the Supreme Administrative Court, which would not have been discussed preferably if the measures had been repealed and replaced by other measures, and that would mean that the judicial review would not actually work as quickly as we were used to. And I must say and commend the Supreme Administrative Court here, that the level of review under the pandemic law really was high-level. So the amendment is that in Article I, point 44 of the amendment, the words 'and the obligation in an emergency measure has not been replaced by a similar obligation in another emergency measure' are inserted after the words 'if an emergency measure has remained in the course of the annulment procedure'. To put it simply, this proposal means that if the Supreme Administrative Court is discussing a proposal, it is typically considered as a priority, except that the measure has already been repealed. However, in the event that the obligation was abolished but replaced by a similar measure, the original measure remains to be considered as a priority in that case. It is indeed a technical matter relating to a prior hearing with the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u136	Thank you, Mr President, just for me, it is a matter of not being read in the system, you have read it right here in the context of a detailed third reading debate. [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. Second reading, then. We're registering your amendment. So that I don't overlook anyone, I ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone else, in which case I'm ending a detailed debate. I'm here to register Prime Minister Fiala's priority right. I just want to ask if you're gonna give the final word, or if you want the priority right straight away? [[Member Radim Fiala will be waiting.]] I ask, Minister, do you want the final word? Please, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, on the one hand, thank you very much for all the amendments. I really appreciate the debate that was, I dare say, mostly very constructive. Thank you for all the recommendations, for all the advice. I can promise that it is definitely in the legislation that I said I would put forward by the holidays, which will concern general hygiene legislation, I will take into account. I am aware of things that I would not have thought of, which I thank, through Mr President, Mrs Vildumetzová and some others who have drawn attention to things that are practically important. Above all, I thank all of you, Madam Members, that you have endured this, that you have had the patience and that all the time the environment has been dignified and constructive in terms of possibilities and differences of opinion. I really appreciate it. I hope we can bring the law to a successful end and convince you, even those who disagree, that what I have said here is deadly serious and that I will always keep my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u138	Thank you. I ask, does the rapporteur want the final word? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u139	Thank you for the floor. I, too, would just like to thank everyone for the extensive discussion that was here. At the same time, I would like to point out that all the amendments tabled by the CAO coalition were discussed by the whole coalition and went through the broad agreement of our experts on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u140	Thank you. And now, as we have agreed, after the end of the detailed debate and the final words, you have priority rights, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u141	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a few words after the second reading. We have been trying to convince you here for two days that your proposed amendment to the pandemic law is an attack on freedom, on the rights of fellow citizens and people in the Czech Republic, that we cannot, of course, agree with that. It is an attack on the rights contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, such as the right to entrepreneurship, the right to private and family life, these are all rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. And especially in the light of the fact that the Supreme Administrative Court today or yesterday, now I'm losing track, has annulled the decision on a measure where non-vaccines are required to prove themselves in restaurants by some kind of test or something, the Dot or something like that. And I don't even know if it's the 34th or the 35th measure that's been lifted by the Supreme Administrative Court anymore. You can see something's wrong here. Another thing that is totally unacceptable to us is that the amendment to the pandemic law is adopted in a legislative emergency. We have explained for a long time what a legislative emergency is, what exactly are the things to which a legislative emergency serves. For example, if the security of the state is threatened, if the economy of the state is threatened, nothing like this is currently happening. Furthermore, of course, we cannot agree to discuss this in a short reading. I am sorry that we have not even convinced you to withdraw this from a brief hearing or from a legislative emergency and to discuss it in a proper legislative process, which has first, second and third readings, where we could, of course, discuss these matters in the long term. But we are not giving up, and we will fight against the amendment to the pandemic law until the end. We will use every moment and every thing that could cancel, or that could slow the reception of such in our view of unconstitutional novels. Of course, we are now after a detailed second reading debate, and I am asking you to take a break for a two-hour meeting of the SPD. We need to have another strategy on how we will proceed on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u142	Mr President, I'm gonna give you a break, I just need to technically finish this point and continue it. So I first conclude the second reading of this proposal, and we, as the Chamber of Deputies, should agree on how amendments will be processed, whether they will be written or electronic. With priority rights, Mr President Excellent. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, on the basis of the agreement of all Members' Club Presidents, I beg you and the House of Laws on the preparation of written documents and written amendments, so that, after the break requested by President Fiala, we may have a third reading of this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u144	It's obvious, so it'll be written. And I will ask the rapporteur to prepare a procedure for voting on individual amendments, which we will then address in the third reading. I think we have done what was needed in a formal way. I interrupt the session of the Chamber of Deputies for two hours, until 21.26 hours, with the third reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss item 1. Before we approach and open the third reading, allow me to read the apology. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský asked for an apology from the meeting between 20 and 23.00, basically within 24 hours, for work reasons. Next, Mrs Eliška Olšáková cancels her apology. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek also apologized between 17.30 and 24.00 until the end of the day without giving any reason. Mrs Michaela Opltová also apologizes, between 19 and 23 o'clock, for family reasons and also for apologies, the Minister of Justice asked Pavel Blažek, today from 19 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. So many apologies. And now we begin the third reading. For the purposes of Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the following definitions shall apply: 7 of the Act on Rules of Procedure may follow in the short term the third reading of the bill immediately after reading the second, I am initiating the third reading of the Government Bill and I expect the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the debate that I am opening with this. And I have here with priority the right to enter into the debate of Mr Marek the Výborný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. We're starting the last part of the fourth phase of the Pandemic Act, third reading. As part of the third reading, once again, a debate may take place and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose that, in the case of this debate, the time to speak to Members should be limited to two or five minutes and that this procedural proposal should be put to the vote immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u147	Thank you for your proposal and we will vote immediately on your proposal. The proposal is that speaking time is limited to two or five minutes in the debate. I'm gonna put you all on hold. I'd like you to sign up with your ID cards. We will wait until the number of applicants has settled, and I will just repeat that, on the proposal of President Marek Výborný, we will vote on the limitation of speaking time for two or five minutes. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting order number 48, registered by 121 Members and Members of Parliament, for 69, against 31, abstained 21. This proposal was adopted and we have thus limited speaking time to two or five minutes. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. Is the Minister or rapporteur interested in the final words? No, thank you. The motion for rejection did not come in a detailed debate at second reading and we would therefore now vote on amendments and legislative technical adaptations. I would ask the rapporteur, Bohuslav Svoboda, to introduce us to the voting procedure. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u148	Yes. So the motion to reject the bill was not filed and then we have six amendments in total. I would suggest that we start with the amendment under letter B, because that is the proposal of Mr Hrnčíř, which would mean that we would vote that the law has been abolished. [[- Yes.]] That means all the other options wouldn't be considered after that. So this would be my first vote, and then we would continue to do it in a row, just as it was put forward. So the first amendment would be to the Member under letter B, which says that the law on emergency measures in the covid-19 epidemic is repealed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u149	Wait a minute. Only if you could show us what the procedure sounds like. What's the procedure proposal, please? And I'm gonna ask my colleagues -- to be quiet in the room, so we can all hear the draft procedure. [[- That's what I said.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u150	Yes, we begin with this point. Then the next amendment that we will vote on is Amendment A, which defines the end of the law, defines it on 30 November 2022. As a third material, we would have the material of Mr Drahoslav Ryba, which says that the setting of the conditions of origin, course, termination of isolation or quarantine measures is changing. The fourth would be a parliamentary proposal which, first, defines that conditions must also be laid down at one time and in one place, so that it is not possible for this to accumulate. And in the second part, there are special provisions that define the amount of fines that are determined for overstepping those orders. In general, all these amounts have been reduced to a tenth against the original figure. The next point would be to vote, then, by letter D2, which is a special measure in relation to the decision-making of legal entities, where it is defined that it is possible for those authorities to act in writing or using technical means even if their instruments of incorporation do not allow it. And another crucial thing at this point is that it is deleted from the proposal of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior as separate units which have the opportunity to decide these measures. Another would be the MP's proposal to Vondrák or Brabec, which is a proposal that says the Governor has the right to an epidemic... The Regional Chief Executive may, after consulting the Crisis Staff, call on the relevant Regional Hygiene Station to declare an emergency measure or propose the repeal of such a measure. The Regional Hygiene Station must discuss such a proposal. There's nothing more to it than having to discuss it. And the last, sixth point is Mr. Michálek's proposal, which is strictly technical, because he says that if the law... "if emergency measures remain in the course of the annulment procedure', the obligation shall be inserted after those words... in that case, no other, no other measure has been replaced by the decision. That's all six points, just like they'd run. If anyone has any objections or any other suggestion...
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u151	Yes, we will vote. If there is no other counterproposal, we will vote for the procedure. Everybody clear on what we're going to vote on? I'm just reminding you that, contrary to the original negotiations, point D1 is divided. and D2. by separate vote. Isn't that right, rapporteur? [[Yes.]] Thank you. So I'm asking who's in favour of proposing a procedure like this. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 49, registered by 123 Members, for 121, against no one. I'm of the opinion that we've accepted the draft procedure. And now I would ask you, Mr rapporteur, to take us through the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u152	Yes. First, as I said, we will vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Hrnčíř. This changeling is very simple because he says Law No. 94/2021 Sb. is deleted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u153	The plaintiff's position? Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 50, registered by 123 Members, for 53, against 69. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u154	Another is the letter C, which is the proposal of Mr Drahoslav Ryba, which says that in the first article number 1, the dot is replaced by a comma and the following text is added: "the setting of the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of isolation or quarantine measures'. So it's a thing I'm not... commenting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u155	Yes. We will therefore vote on paragraph A. On Amendment . Céčko. Okay, thank you. So we will vote on Amendment C.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u156	The ministry's position is disagreeable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u157	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening the vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? In voting number 51, 123 Members registered, for 53, against 69. The motion was denied. We can move on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u158	And now we get to the letter D, first of all to the letter D1, which is a proposal that first says that the conduct of public or private events... [[Attention.]] Yes, it's true, I skipped, I'm sorry. The amendment is the one that says that... § 1 to § 8a will expire on 30 November 2022. [[The President is asking for peace.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u159	Yes. The plaintiff's position? [[For the Ministry of Justice, the opinion is in agreement.]] Thank you. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In vote number 52, 123 Members and Members, for 123, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u160	Yes, I am now returning to point D.1 where it is stipulated that these are restrictions on the conduct of public or private events involving the accumulation of natural persons in one place at a time. It has a continuation, it is a part that is a continuation, it gives information on how large fines are for exceeding the individual conditions at the beginning of the mentioned, all these fines are significantly reduced to around 10 percent of the original amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u161	Thank you. The plaintiff's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u162	For the Ministry on this amendment of the Group of Members, the position is agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u163	Thank you. I'm opening the vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? In vote number 53, 123 Members and Members, for 123, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u164	Yes. Furthermore, we also have Amendment D2 by a group of Members who says that if the public health authority issues an exceptional measure to re-limit the legal person's body, it may decide, in writing, using technical means even if the founding legal act does not allow it. Furthermore, it is also defined that the word "Ministry or Regional Hygiene Station" is replaced by the word "Extraordinary Measures" and the word "His" is deleted, which is a fundamental abolition of the fact that it is not prohibited. Then there is also the fact that "Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior" is deleted as a concept that can make these decisions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u165	Yes, thank you. So it is Amendment D2. Thank you. The plaintiff's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u166	For the Ministry on this amendment, once again by a group of Members, the position is in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u167	Thank you, Minister. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In voting number 54, 123 Members and Members, for 123, against no one. The motion was accepted. Let's keep going. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u168	Yes. We have the amendment letter E, which is tabled by my colleague Brabec and Ivo Vondrák. This point states that the Regional Governor may propose and call on the Regional Hygiene Station, after discussing the epidemic, to declare an emergency measure, or to propose the wording of such a measure. The Regional Hygiene Station must discuss such a challenge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u169	Yes, we will therefore vote on point E. Please take a position, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u170	The opinion of the Ministry on this amendment by Mr Vondrák is in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u171	Thank you. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In voting number 55, 123 Members and Members, for 122, against no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u172	And we're at the font. F Mr Michálek's proposal, which says that if an emergency measure has expired in the course of the annulment procedure, we put the words 'and the obligation in an emergency measure has not been replaced simultaneously by a similar obligation in another emergency measure'. So it's actually a technical supplement to that fact that if it's gone away and it hasn't been replaced by something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u173	Yes, we will therefore vote on the proposal by F. I am asking the appellant's position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u174	For the Ministry of Health, the opinion on this amendment is agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u175	Thank you. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? In voting number 56, 123 Members registered, for 122, against no one. The motion was accepted. And this is what we have dealt with, if I am not mistaken, with all the amendments. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u176	Yes, you're not wrong. In my opinion, too, we have dealt with all the amendments, and therefore we only have to vote on the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u177	Yes. And before we vote on the proposal as a whole, President Tomio Okamura asked for a speech with priority rights. Please. Mr rapporteur, thank you so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise once again that your government proposal for the so-called pandemic law is an unprecedented attack on citizens' rights and freedoms. That is why the members of the SPD will not support this law. At the same time, I wanted to inform you that the political struggle for freedom, democracy and human rights in the SPD does not end here and we will continue to fight. We will file a constitutional complaint on the pandemic law and on the way in which this law was adopted here in a legislative emergency, because by this law you are fundamentally restricting the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Here, I would like to remind you of the important sentence in which you can law in a legislative emergency. It is only in the case of - I quote - exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are fundamentally threatened or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. Of course, even the argument that something was already in the Constitutional Court will not stand here, because what you're translating now is a different option. [[21.50 hours]] And I would like to conclude by calling on Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who sits behind me to immediately abolish the general antiepidemic measures related to covid disease, I am talking about the area measures. And I would ask you, like many other countries, to relax. You say you are loosening up, but on the contrary, you are now promoting a law that limits the rights and freedoms, other rights and freedoms of citizens. Let's just go back to our normal lives. At the same time, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to put an end to discrimination without vaccination, but also in this context to the judgment that has fallen today, but we have been saying this for a long time. And I would also like to call on the members of the government and Prime Minister Petr Fiala here to finally start dealing with the enormous price increase of everything for citizens in the Czech Republic. It's an increase in energy, food. And don't worry, please, as a priority here for a whole month, Prime Minister, the pandemic law and the correspondence choice. Really, please, present the laws. You're the government, we're in opposition. You have the majority here. So I'm going to ask you to finally start dealing with things that really burn the citizens of the Czech Republic, and that is solving the price increase in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With priority rights - the Minister prefers the President. [[Minister Válek: The lady must always have priority.]] Yes, very good. President Alena Schillerová with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u180	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor, thank you for your priority. I'll be very brief. Members of the ANO movement behaved constructively from the outset in the discussion of this law. Six of my colleagues got off, including me. We said what bothers us about the law. Again, we cannot support the law as a whole because I insist on the club's name that this law has not been properly discussed. I didn't want us to have any long debates that wouldn't help us. I also tried in my speech and my colleagues to point out that if we let him into the ordinary legislative process, that we could perhaps find consensus, we could agree on him so that the YES movement in the final could support him. That didn't happen. But we have also been very constructive about the amendments. We are aware of most government and the fact that the law will definitely pass. And we wanted to support amendments that mitigate some of the impact on citizens, because they will then be an integral part of the law adopted. That is why we supported them, but we will not support the law as a whole. It is wrong if it does not have such a fundamental law that divides society - perhaps these people would not be there today if the law had been discussed if it had been properly explained to the public if it had gone through a proper legislative process. I think, and I'm not happy about it, because I've experienced these experiences as a member of the former government, when we've made new decisions, the courts have disturbed them, now you're actually in the same situation. I know it's often an unsolvable situation, I can empathize. And I think that - and I don't want to do this to you in any way, because then it's a situation that affects the government, complicates it, it's pointed out that it shouldn't have been done like this - I don't think we're gonna avoid a situation when it's being followed by this law, and God knows you're gonna have to follow it, so when the courts give us an answer, if that was okay. I think that if we took this debate with lawyers, with various experts in committees, here in plenary, so that we could avoid it and perhaps eventually find common ground. I felt it necessary to tell you here why the YES movement will not support the law as a whole, even though we have supported individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u181	Thank you, Madam President. And now, with priority rights, Minister Vlastimil Válek will speak. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for the marathon, but above all - and I felt as my duty, because I am the bringer of the law, and therefore I am responsible for it - I would like to thank all the staff of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to thank all those who have spent the day, night and day with us, security, all those who have been here because we have discussed this law, that we have discussed it. I appreciate it very much, and I am very sorry to all of them. I think he deserves our commendation, I'd say applause. [[A big round of applause for all Members, Mr Brázdil is handing over a bouquet of stenographers.]] I wanted to thank you all for the amendments, and I wanted to thank you for your helpfulness to the amendments. Those amendments have moved the law in the right direction, and I thank you for that. As I kept my word on New Year's Eve and was not an emergency, there was no limited traffic, as I kept my word on the decree that we canceled, and there was no mandatory vaccination, as I kept my word that we would gradually restrict the individual measures as the situation would develop, and I clearly said how we would limit them, release them, so I will continue to do this, and I can promise that nothing will deter me from doing so. We'll be following Professor Chlíbek's recommendation. Our plan is clear, and we will get to know the public very quickly. For me, the pandemic law is nothing but insurance and security for all citizens of the Czech Republic if something extraordinary happens so that I can do for their benefit. Nothing, nothing can lead me to abuse him. [[Great applause for the coalition's members.]] I thank you for your attention and please vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-02-02-ps2021-008-02-001-001.u183	Thank you, Minister. And before we vote, I'll read an apology. From today's meeting between 22.00 and 22.30, Mr Roman Bělor apologizes for reasons of work. I will now repeat once again that we have voted on all amendments, and now we will vote on the bill as a whole. I will engage, call the Members and Members to the Chamber. We're hearing an application for check-out. I checked you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. The number seems to have stabilized, and I can therefore begin the vote. I ask who is for the law as a whole to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 57, 123 Members and Members voted in favour of 70, against 53. The bill was passed. [[Let's hear it for the members of the coalition.]] I am also sorry, I forgot to make a motion for a resolution before the vote, so can I make this right? [[2.00 hours]] "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of COVID-19 disease and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended by the Constitutional Court, published under No. 4/2022 Coll., Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 520/2021 Coll., on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, according to House Press 127, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry, I'm very sorry. Since I have failed to read the resolution, consider the previous vote confusing. Please return to your seats. I'm begging you to be lenient. And we will vote once again, this time clean, on the bill as a whole. I will rejoin and ask my colleagues to come to the vote. At the same time, I'm hearing a request for a check-out. Please sign up with your ID cards. We have read the resolution. We will vote on the law as a whole. We'll wait until the numbers are stable. I'm gonna reengage. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole and ask who is in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 58, registered 122, for 70, against 52. The law has been passed. And again, I apologize for the confusion. I state that we have exhausted the agenda of this meeting, and I am ending the 8th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and wish you good night.
