ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 101 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 26 October this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Tom Philipp and Mr Michal Zuna. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I can't see. We have to wait a little while to be able to settle. So I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards because I checked you all out. Please sign in. Yes, thank you. We will therefore now vote on the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. Let me repeat, I suggest we appoint Mr Tom Philipp and Mr Michal Zuna. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number one, 103 Members and Members of Parliament, for 98, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Tom Philipp and Mr Michal Zuna. I declare that, by the beginning of the meeting, the Heller of the meeting, the whole of the working day - the whole of the Hanzlíková day - the Bělica of the Jaroslav day - the vlček of the Radim Róbert - the Bašta of the Lukáš Karel - the whole of the Pastuchová Jaroslav - the Šimon of the working Jana - the Miloslav of the David Ivan - the Berkovcová of the Jáč Robert, the Golasowská of the Babišová Vích, the full of the Karel Tureček, the Kettner of the Staněk Pavel, the period of the králíček Jana, the full of the working day, the period of the Roman day, the full of the Jiří Strýček, the period of the Jan day, the Bělor of the Jiří Jílková, the Kučera of the Radovan day, the full of the working Janulík, the full of the case, the full of the case, the full of the case, the Feranec of the Mádlová SvobodaPavel the full of the case, the full of the Pražák David, the full of the Pavel day, the period, the period, the period of the case, the full of the sitting day, the period, the period, the period of the period, the period of the period of the period of the sitting, the period, the period, the period of the period of the hearing, the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the hearing, the hearing, the period of the hearing, the hearing, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the hearing, the hearing, the hearing, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the hearing, the hearing, the hearing, the period of the hearing, the period of the period of the hearing, the hearing, the hearing, the period of the hearing, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period, the period, the period of the period of the period of the period of the hearing, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the hearing, the period of the period of the hearing, the hearing, the hearing, the hearing, the hearing, the hearing, the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the Voborská Milada within 11 hours - no reason given, Vondrák Ivo full day - working reasons. The members of the government apologize: Bartoš Ivan all day - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Černochová Jana whole day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena within 15 hours - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - medical reasons, Rakušan Vít whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal within 16 hours and from 21 hours - working reasons and Vlastimil Válek all day for working reasons. I have another apology. Richter Jan apologizes throughout the day for working reasons. We've exhausted our apologies. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 43rd meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. And now I have Mr. Marek Benda's priority right here. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-000-000.u2	Good morning, Madam Vice-President, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Since it has been signalled that today may be longer and that the amendment to the Czech Television Act, although it is very brief and let us say simple, could cause some emotions in this House, so allow me to propose, on behalf of the ODS and STAN MPs, at this point in time, that we are going to negotiate today and to vote on the laws, probably the only one, even after 19th, 21st and 24th hours, to know what awaits us first thing in the morning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-01-ps2021-043-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Everyone knows what we're going to vote on. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 2, 124 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 73, against 42. The motion was accepted. [[9.10 hours]] We will now vote on the full proposal for the 43rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 3, 126 Members and Members of Parliament, for 74, against 49. The motion was accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved. We will now proceed to the only item on the show
