ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 7th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who is applying for a replacement card. The replacement card number 11 will be used today by Mr Radek Vondráček. I don't have another report yet. I have called a meeting under our Rules of Procedure at the request of 64 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 5 January of this year. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I'm asking for peace, ladies and gentlemen. Let me start by saying, because we have been dealing with a short break for a very long time, at this point I express my thanks to the Chamber of Deputies' apparatus, which spends all this time with us too, it is necessary to realize this, and it is certainly not easy for them at all. I think we should keep that in mind. [[Let's hear it for the whole room.]] I think the applause is well deserved. Thank you. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Stanislav Berkovec and a Member of Renáta Zajíčková. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion? I don't see it happening. I will therefore begin the vote on this proposal by the verifiers and ask who is in favour to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 1, 157 Members and Members were enrolled for 149 of them. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated the verifiers of the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of Stanislav Berkovec and of the Member Renáta Zajíčková. I declare that by the beginning of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting by the following Members: Adámková Věra from 6 am to 10.15 pm for working reasons, Feranec Milan for health reasons, kolovratník Martin from 13.30 am to 18 pm for work reasons, Koten Radek for health reasons, Kott Josef for health reasons, Mašek Jiří for health reasons, Naiclerová Hana also for health reasons, Staněk Pavel also for health reasons, Vondrák Ivo within 13 hours for work reasons, Wenzl Milan for health reasons. They apologized from the members of the government: Petr Fiala from 9 to 13 hours for work reasons, Martin Baxa from 9 hours for health reasons, Mikuláš Bek from 9 to 18 hours for work reasons, Jana Černochová also from 9 to 18 hours - without giving reason, Anna Hubáčková from 9 to 18 hours for work reasons, Marian Jurečka from 9 to 18 hours for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý from 9 to 18 hours for work reasons, Zdeněk Nekula for morning meetings for work reasons and Michal Šalomoun from 9 o'clock for work reasons. We will therefore now proceed to the agenda of the 7th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I do not see anyone reporting, which is why we will now vote on the whole proposal for the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. That's how I see the logged in. Reporting with priority rights... [[Ambassador Tomio Okamura is interested in getting off.]] I didn't notice, I'm sorry, but now I see you're applying. Are you reporting, Mr. Okamura or Mr. Fialo? I'm sorry, I don't have your application right now, but it's possible to apply from the site, of course. The President of Okamura is therefore in favour of this. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an emergency meeting on the House's agenda, explaining the origin of STAN's funding money from abroad. After the elections to the House, the mayors and independents began to receive special donations in their transparent account. The amounts from CZK 100 to CZK 200,000, a total of millions from twenty companies that are connected to each other in property and personnel, and which are dominated by a group of entrepreneurs that privatized the Prior department stores and now operates business centres. Some of the payments were sent by companies that controlled or founded companies based in a tax haven in Cyprus. In response to this information, the government movement STAN, headed by its President and Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, rejected doubts about finance: "Stan's sponsor's donations come exclusively from companies with a traceable ownership structure," wrote the starosta and independent before Christmas in a press release, a proven lie. But the even more fundamental problem is, in my opinion, the origin of money. It is absolutely unacceptable for a man to be the Minister of the Interior - Vít Rakušan, who is responsible for the police, is the first vice prime minister in this proposed new government, or in this government, and is also chairman of the STAN movement, whose financing is not transparently clarified. This is such a gigantic and absurd conflict of interest that perhaps most of you, esteemed colleagues from both government coalitions, will understand. Therefore, I hope that the members of the government parties will approve the agenda of this proposed meeting, so that the members of the STAN movement headed by Vít Rakušan will explain to us in detail and crediblely the strange financial flows in their account. And I hope that the legality or lawlessness of money in STAN's accounts will be assessed by the police with the prosecutor and subsequently by the court. But there are big question marks here too. The new Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement invited him to a strange meeting of police President Jan Švejdar, who announced his departure from office after a four-person interview, before becoming a minister, even as an ordinary MP, just before the appointment of the Minister. Vít Rakušan sent a police president who refused to become a puppet in his hands. What is without any debate is the said conflict of interest and the House should call on Prime Minister Fiala to call off the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, who is simultaneously, virtually. He proposed the appeal of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, who is also Chairman of the STAN movement, and entrusted the administration of the resort with someone who will not be connected to the STAN movement, and will mainly be a guarantee of objectivity and impartiality. The fact that the police President himself voluntarily resigned from office after the meeting with Mr Rakušan is in itself a warning evidence that Mr Rakušan intends to abuse his position. Moreover, the Cyprus case puts the abdication of the police president in a completely different light. [[9.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sum up as briefly as possible what is publicly known about the suspected funding of the STAN movement. Despite the claim of the STAN movement in some donor companies, it is not really clear who their owner is, i.e. who is the real sponsor of the STAN movement. For example, one of the donors, Humble, according to data from the public commercial register, is represented by Prague's lawyer JUDr. Luboš Kuna, who is entitled to represent the company separately. Humblův's subsidiary in Brno is managed by Ing according to current data. Jiří Fajkus, who is also not the owner of the company. From the accounts of these two companies, around CZK quarter of a million were transferred to the Mayors and Independents. doktor Kuna only represents four shareholders who own every quarter of the company. Who they are, he refused to reveal. In the records of the beneficial owners, the shareholders of the company are not registered due to a gap in the law. He considers the real owner to be a natural person who controls more than 25 percent of the company. If, as in this case, four entrepreneurs own the company equally, the registration will be avoided. Another company, MAT Corporation, donated CZK 80,000 to the Mayors, its subsidiary Budějovická Alej 150,000, and another subsidiary, DBK Management, then even CZK 280,000, a total of over half a million, and we will not find the real owner here. The owner of the Czech company MAT Corporation is the Cypriot company GL&P Investments. And where is Home Secretary Vít Rakušan? [[He's looking into the government bench.]] Yeah, you did your time so you wouldn't be behind me in the shot? I mean, your place is here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u3	I beg you not to shout at each other, and I beg you -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u4	But Vít Rakušan is written here. Why don't you want to be behind me so you can hear it so I can turn to you? Why are you avoiding direct contact?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u5	Mr President, please, it is not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u6	No, I have the right to speak directly to the Minister under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u7	I'm sure you are, but you're not supposed to yell at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u8	You don't know the rules of procedure? I'm not yelling at anyone. I'm talking to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u9	I know the rules of procedure. I just want you not to yell at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u10	Wait, I've been in charge of the House for four years. The MP speaks to the microphone, it's the Rules of Procedure, I'm sure of that. If I'm yelling at someone or not, that's your subjective impression, so don't put me on the speaker list, please keep these manners. [[There's a bump in the bench.]] And here I see, I didn't give it either, that it says Vít Rakušan, so I don't know why the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister aren't sitting here sitting on purpose so he can't be in the television camera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u11	He can certainly sit anywhere and move around the O.R., just like everyone does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u12	I have every right to comment. No?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u13	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u14	Well, Mr. Transport Minister Kupka here tells me it's embarrassing that I'm talking about STAN funding. I don't get it. I think you should explain why you're in a coalition with the STAN movement as ODS. And you'll have a chance at a microphone, not to tell me here so it's not on the microphone. Let's go public so everyone can hear it. So the owner of the Czech company MAT Corporation is the Cypriot company GL&P Investments. According to the Cypriot Commercial Register, it has five shareholders. Four of them are companies based in Luxembourg. These are divided equally by a two-thirds stake in GL&P Investments. But the remaining third of GL&P Investments is anonymous. It belongs to another Cypriot company Confucius Nominees. It is part of the international office of IQ EQ offering offshore services in tax havens. This is the beginning of STAN's sponsorship structure. STAN's press release admitted that three of the donor companies - I quote - have joint owners with Cypriot passports. The Czech record of the beneficial owners as a person behind MAT Corporation and its daughters lists two Greek names - Georgios Crystallis and Connie Petsas. According to the findings of the Diary N these are not co-owners with Cypriot passports, but persons who offer "administrative services" within the aforementioned Cypriot offices, i.e. in Czech, are white horses that cover the real owner. The real largest shareholder of the Czech company MAT Corporation and its subsidiaries are hiding behind them. The property structure of companies covered in the Czech Republic mentioned by MAT Corporation is also unclear. The ownership structure of STAN sponsors also includes four Luxembourg companies. According to the Luxembourg Register of Real Owners, each of them is worth a specific Czech natural person. Millersfield, K&AJ Capital and Phischi Investments and Concrete Structure, controlled by Ondřej Klazar and Miroslav Velfl. But it does not overlap with records in Czech public sources. Four Luxembourg companies according to the minutes of this year's general meeting, for example, are equally owned by the Czech company Centrix Property. She sent 150,000 crowns to the starosta. Last November, STAN sent CZK 100,000 to the company Galerie Přerov, which owns a shopping center in the city and controlled by PRIOR, department stores. More money, CZK 180,000, PRIOR company, department stores, sent in November 18th and STAN sent in additional money by its subsidiary Zlatá Grána in Prostějov. You'd think a decent piece, STAN in Prostějov worked well and the rich go to his hand. However, PRIOR, a business house, states in its annual report last year that the outstanding loss of the company from the past amounts to over CZK 416 million. The fact that a company in debt and loss sends money to the government's STAN movement may be another problem in itself. And in this context, I am thinking of intersecting the Home Secretary, who is directly concerned by this case, who should have the most recent information about his own case. And if the police aren't doing it yet, we'll file a criminal complaint. But back to Cyprus. Another CZK 200,000 was also sent to STAN by LUTESTI, founded in 2014 by EUROMATER, represented by a citizen of Cyprus, Christos Elia. The question is: what unites STAN and Cyprus's companies in tax havens? The Cypriot liaison is probably Vice-President of the STAN Věslav Michalik movement, who is currently Deputy Central Bohemia Governor for STAN and especially the nominee of the STAN movement for the Minister of Industry and Trade. Mr. Michalik has an interesting financial history. He's a former banker, CEO and member of the board of directors of the German bank. In 2010, Michalik was investigated on suspicion of tax evasion during the 2006 transaction between the consultancy company CAIB, where he worked at the time, and ČSOB. Police investigated suspicion of an unjustified reduction in the tax base during the consultancy bill for ČSOB, in which the damage of at least 50 million crowns was to be caused. The investigation was finally terminated because the police did not obtain the necessary documents from Holland for the transactions. As a result, he was quietly withdrawn from the TOP 09 election candidate. The police, as we can see, deserved that Mr. Michalik had to look for a career in competition, the STAN movement. Firms associated with the Michalikův family borrowed at least EUR 4.6 million through the anonymous Cypriot company Lowfield Investments. Most of it was acquired by Solar Area, in which Michalik had half the share. The smaller part was acquired by a subsidiary of Dark Sky operating in Dolní Břežany, where Michalik is mayor, and his wife is listed as a contact person of the company for the conclusion of lease contracts. The companies associated with him and his wife collected CZK 100 million in total between 2010 and 2017 as a favourable loan from the Cypriot company Lowfield. It has an opaque ownership structure. [[9.20 hours]] At the same time, a dedicated loan washed through Cyprus, which, according to publicly available information, was actually allocated to itself through other companies by his wife, was just the famous tip of the iceberg. As it turned out, Michalik has a share in the investment fund Valour, into which before entering into municipal policy he inserted his property, among others solar power plants Solar, I will read it phonetically Czech, Solar Area and Rodvinov Solar Energy. Valour's revenues therefore depend on the prosperity of the solar business. And it is from the government's point of view that the government's STAN movement can well influence us, so the circle is gradually closing. Cyprus is popular as a country where money is fought, such as organized crime, and as a tax haven, where companies hide from proper tax payments. The government declares in the programme statement that it will fight tax evasion and tax havens and that it will be against companies with anonymous owners and so on. So there's been a flagrant violation of your government statement. The STAN movement in the Cyprus case showed us how elegantly money can be received from tax havens. According to STAN, it should probably be enough to take bribes from tax fraudsters. I would just like to explain to the citizens what is at least the ethical problem of sponsoring STAN companies linked to tax havens in Cyprus. Well, it is a common citizen, an employee, a Czech small company, who has nothing to do but pay taxes in the Czech Republic. But there are "peemakers" who want to fuck Czech citizens and the Czech state budget and take money into a country, such as Cyprus, where taxation is more advantageous, lower, lower taxation. In short, the STAN movement supports companies when I simplify it, which instead of taxing the current tax in the Czech Republic as 90 percent or 99 percent of Czech citizens, and thus contributed to the financing of health, education, social services, pensions, so their sponsors, and they support it, make money into tax havens, cut short and withdraw money to Czech citizens. And now the STAN movement, Vít Rakušan, Petr Gazdík and I don't know, Farský and others, are playing here to be a change for the better and bring a new wind. What an incredible situation! If you are decent and serious, you will at least invite your friends to tax you in the Czech Republic from an ethical point of view, or to be sponsored by companies that tax fully in the Czech Republic to set an example. That's not what you're doing. You're going the exact opposite way. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement to give me the above-mentioned issues and also the matters that will be named in other speeches, so that he can clearly explain publicly before the police investigate the matter, so that he resigns from the position of Minister of the Interior, as he is in a clear conflict of interest. How can he be the Minister of the Interior, that is, the person under which the police fall, as it might be Vít Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN movement, when alone - the police fall under him. It's such a flaming conflict of interest that I've never seen this place before. And at a time when the government is still asking for trust, such scandals. And I ask this Chamber of Deputies to discuss the above facts, and I propose, and I hope that you will face this, your five-calice government, and you will approve our agenda for this meeting. Because I would like to remind you here, when the audience sees this, that if you do not approve of the agenda for the meeting, we cannot even vote on the motions for our resolutions and, of course, Members, other Members cannot participate in the debate either, because until the agenda is approved, only those with priority rights can speak. So if you have a clear conscience, if you are not hiding anything, then you will approve the agenda for this meeting and allow the two resolutions proposed by us to vote. And I propose these resolutions, of course, because the caller of this meeting is the SPD movement and the ANO movement, we are the only two opposition parties here, and those resolutions are common. It is, of course, a joint resolution. The first resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala, to call off the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for a conflict of interest and propose the appointment of a new Interior Minister who will not be associated with the STAN movement." And the second resolution, and we would like to vote separately: 'The Chamber of Deputies will take action to set up a House Investigation Commission to investigate the funding of the STAN movement'. This is a very important point, because there is an incredible conflict of interest here, where the police actually falls under the Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the STAN movement, so logically, and on the basis of his interview with police President Jan Švejdar a few days before he was appointed Minister, after this police president has composed his post - so that is crazy! Here are the suspicions of political influence by the police. And that Vít Rakušan still did not explain exactly what they were talking about with the police president, exactly the sentence by sentence, what you were talking about. That's important here. Yes, Mr. Gazdík is laughing at it for the STAN movement. I don't think it's funny at all. Because if it was anybody else, I've been there before in the last term, you'll almost hang it out the House window. And when it comes to you, all of a sudden, different rules apply? Well, that committee of inquiry is very important. Because it's the only body for us, for the opposition, where the opposition can be represented, because when you yourself control the police, come on, and still, based on your interview with the police president, the police president is resigning, so we absolutely can't believe it. And, of course, I don't believe a word of Mr. Rakušan. We can see that, both Mr Farský here now - now we hear he's apologizing until 18 o'clock today for work reasons. Well, he said he was on his way to America on Thursday, that he was going to America, Oregon. Yes, I know he's going to work because he said he was going there to study the federalization of Europe. This means ending the independence and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. But that's the excuse for business reasons. I thought Mr Farský's work was an MP. He said he was gonna do it. But you're excused in 18 hours. [[The speaker turns to the Farski MPs.]] And what time are you leaving today, Thursday? [[Laughs in the courtroom.]] Because in the media, you said, through Madam President, that you were leaving on Thursday. You're leaving for America today. So you're not going to America anymore. So you said it was Thursday, so tell us when you're leaving. Yeah, that would also be interesting information, eight months. So this investigation, this committee of inquiry, it's important from the point of view that it's the only place where we, as opposition, can have representation. And at least we can have some kind of control power. Of course, there are representatives of government MPs on that committee of inquiry, of course, and they will have most of them, of course, so you have nothing to worry about. And there's the important area, the investigation committee. So if I sum it up, if I say this briefly, then at the moment that you do not approve the agenda of the meeting, you will not allow a resolution to be adopted to set up a committee of inquiry, that is, you have no clear conscience and you are hiding something. Even if you had not approved the resolution, the SPD, in agreement with YES, SPD and YES, we are only here two opposition parties, so we are collecting 40 signatures that are needed for the commission of inquiry. So you're not going to get rid of the subject, because we're going to propose it as a point at the meeting again to vote on the committee of inquiry again. There will be a vote on it again. And once again, we're going to ask why you're defending the establishment of an investigation committee. Last term, we have also been the opposition of the previous parliamentary term, but we have nothing to do with you, nor do we want anything to do with you, nor do we want to have anything to do with our voters, so you here have proposed a committee of inquiry for anything else, such as on Bečva, we supported this naturally, it is necessary to investigate, make clear conclusions, so now it is good to allow the committee of inquiry again to - if you have a clear conscience. So that's all I wanted to say, and thank you for your attention. Well, I hope Mr. Rakušan here will explain everything in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u15	I'll tell you what's the order of the other pre-laws. Since I have an updated factual point here, I would like to tell you that we are not in the debate and that it is not possible to make factual points. The chairman of the SPD movement club is now registered with priority rights. It's according to the written applications that are delivered in this way. So now it's Mr Radim Fiala's turn, followed by President Alena Schillerová. Minister Rakušan is then declared with priority rights. [[Member Radim Fiala offers Mrs Schiller's preference.]] You may surrender, but this will bring you to the end of those entries. It's up to you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u16	Dear colleagues, at today's meeting, we should consider explaining the origin of the money used to finance the STAN movement from abroad. In its press release, the STAN movement states that it has not accepted any money from abroad. They exactly say: "The STAN movement accepts donations only from legal entities based in the Czech Republic and from Czech citizens. This can be easily verified by checking a transparent account." Unfortunately, it is just another work from today's almost endless series, in which the STAN movement makes absolutely arrogant, cynical and ridiculous all citizens of the Czech Republic complete fools. For example, the previous episodes of this series were the incredible interpretation of his meetings with Police President Švejdar by the Interior Minister and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement. Or an absolutely insane story about the long-term stay of a member of Farský in the United States of America, where he will at the same time, without working as a Member, draw on the parliamentary benefits financed by Czech taxpayers, even if he undertakes to send them to various non-profit organizations. According to public sources, in the case of STAN's sponsorship, due to which today's meeting is convened, there was a series of payments of between CZK 100 and 200,000 in October, shortly after the last elections to the House, and in November 2021. These amounts were sent to the account of companies that control the same entities, natural and legal persons that control or in the past controlled companies registered in Cyprus, which is Europe's declared tax havens. Often companies with hidden or partially hidden ownership structure. In just two months, more than 3 million crowns were sent to STAN on purpose. It is precisely this purposeful distribution of payments and gifts that raises great and justified doubts as to what purpose and why it should have been hidden. Moreover, this dubious sponsorship is not about any exception or coincidence with the STAN movement without further reference. Judging by other facts, this is rather a rule, because once again, according to public and open sources, among the people controlling the companies that sponsor STAN in this dubious way, there is a stronger link between the movement itself. This connection leads through the Vice-President of the movement, Councilman of the Central Bohemia Region and Deputy Central Bohemia Governor, former candidate of the STAN movement to the post of Minister of Industry and Trade Věslav Michalik, who had to resign to this position also because of opaque property transactions and opaque business connections between his and his wife's companies, including a strange loan from anonymous, Cyprus again, society. Let us remember that the incriminate sponsorship payments on account of STAN came at the time following the elections and which lasted just until Věslav Michalik resigned under pressure of public opinion on his nomination for the ministerial post. Coincidence? The business connection of the Cypriot company of the wife of the Vice-President of STAN Michalika with two sponsoring companies of the STAN movement from last autumn is also provable. I can name the companies. It is the Lowfield Investments company, which in the past lent Mr Michalik CZK 117 million to develop its two solar power plants, which also sponsored STAN in the amount of approximately CZK 3 million. In its 2015 financial statements, this company reports that it controls a 20% stake in Roxy Real Estate, while the remaining 80 percent belonged to the Cypriot company Urbania Investments, which has held the majority of NEMOHOLD shares since 2017, which STAN sponsored this autumn. A striking thing is also a double standard of public media in relation to the case of this funding of the STAN movement from tax havens through offshore companies with unclear and hidden ownership structure, or partly hidden ownership structure, especially compared to how this media has dealt with similar problems in the past when other political entities have had them. Without rooting for other political players who have had these problems in the past, the difference in informing the media is absolutely diametric. Two meters? Or are there good tax havens and bad tax havens? Politically appropriate and inappropriate anonymous companies? And where are all the previously active investigative journalists? But that's just about the edge. As for the STAN movement and its suspicious financing, functioning and its suspicious personnel contacts, it has something to do from its past. These include contacts of former Vice-President of the movement and longtime MEP Polčák with co-worker of escaped criminal and Mafia boss Radovan Krejčíř Michal Redl, with whom according to the Czech Radio Radio Radio - this is a verified source, the mainstream media always ask where we know this from, where we have the source - in the past consulted the personnel nominations of the STAN movement for positions in the institutions of companies founded by the capital city of Prague and the important positions in the local city. This Michal Redl was then prosecuted with Radovan Krejčíř in two cases, such as the tunneling of Česká spořitelna, where 100 million crowns disappeared. And so on and so forth. I could keep reading about Mr. Polčák, Mr. Redl, but I don't think it's worth it. But in other cases, for example, during consultations with the STAN movement on occupying lucrative posts, he probably did not get this disease - he was not convicted because he was recognized as disabled and the prosecution was stopped for alleged mental illness. Just so we know what happened. We could even laugh about it if it wasn't for such serious things and so the unbridled arrogance of power and ridicule to the citizens of the STAN movement. Colleagues and colleagues, when the so-called Pandora Papers case appeared before the elections associated with the alleged sending of funds by Andrej Babiš through offshore companies, Vít Rakušan said that Interpol would find an ex-premiere later. I hope that the competent authorities will have the same meter on all and that we will get the truth about the real background of STAN's sponsorship. And that the Ministry of the Interior, which is now under STAN's control, will not put any obstacles to it. Clearly, we will never get the truth from the representatives of the STAN movement. But he'll never see a legendary log in his eye. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u17	Thank you for your performance. Now, therefore, with priority rights, it is Mrs Schillerová's turn. In the meantime, I'll be able to read the apology from today's meeting day. For working reasons between 13 and 18 o'clock, Mr Jan Volný apologizes. Please take your word for it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, if I am not mistaken, this is the third extraordinary meeting... [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Maybe I'll wait a little while, if you'll be so kind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u19	Yes, please, colleagues, if you have anything important to discuss, please move these conversations into the foyer so that there is a calm atmosphere. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Madam President. It's the third emergency meeting we've initiated. And I firmly hope that we will not hear silence again as with the two previous ones from the government coalition, and that silence in this case not only the STAN movement, but the whole five-wheeler and the new government, when it is to comment on the dubious financing of one of the government parties. Government parties who, by the way, hold the Vice Prime Minister and, above all, the Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior who does not mind accepting sponsorship donations from companies owned by opaque structures in Cyprus or Luxembourg as Chairman of the STAN movement. Plus, as we learned today, from the society of a criminally prosecuted person. Your government is asking this House for trust. But it is appropriate to explain these doubts absolutely. The only explanation that has been made so far is that companies sending millions of donations have Czech IČO, so everything is okay. No, it's not! The Czech IČO also has companies that no one would claim to be Czech. Or do you think companies like Samsung, IBM, but also Rosatoma are Czech? Of course, it's about where their property network leads, the whole structure. For example, the company Nemohold, which sent you CZK 100,000 on 6 December, is owned by the Cypriot company Urbania Investments Limited of more than 66 percent. I repeat, if STAN colleagues happen to not hear this - I believe not: of more than 66 percent owned by the Cypriot company Urbania Investments Limited. In addition, Nemohold managed last year with a loss of CZK 1.4 million. But also other companies: Testi, 200,000. The company was founded by EUROMATER, SE, in Cyprus represented by Cypriot citizen Christos Elia. So I'm asking: Do you think these are the Czech companies? Moreover, it is very strange and strange that your movement is sponsoring a loss-making society. Of course, these are not the only cases. Within a few weeks of the election, STAN, after the election, came into the account of the STAN movement in similar amounts and often from companies with similar ownership structure of more than CZK 3 million. I really do not see this as transparent, and as you repeatedly try to reassure us ministers of Rakušan, Mr Gazdík, nor do I consider it to be something that is okay. The key question is: who are the people behind these companies? Who are the real gifts from? It would be said that some of the points from the new government's programming statement work only funny. That shouldn't be such a big deal. I quote from the programming statement: We will ensure better measures against the abuse of transfer of pricing and illegal practices of optimization and tax evasion. Or even better quote: We cut off companies from tax havens from public money. How's it going with what I mentioned? How does it go together with one of the government parties signed under this programme statement receiving sponsorship donations from companies with Cypriot owners, or companies whose structure it runs on Cyprus? And unfortunately, that's not the end of it. There's a lot more of these weird payments. However, we have other companies that, although connected by staff, sent many smaller payments during that short period: 1 November Hampl 100 000 CZK, 3 November Reality Managements 180,000 CZK, 3 November WEEE 200,000 CZK, 3 November Delta Soft Consulting CZK 200,000, 3 November Classic Forte 100,000 CZK, 3 November Centrix Property 150 000 CZK, 4 November DBK Management 180 000 CZK, 4 October Investment and property 150 000 CZK. Shall I continue? I don't think there's a need. However, it is certainly worth mentioning the company REMA System, which sent CZK 200,000 to STAN's account on 15 November. And we learned a lot about that today, too. REMA The system is a non-profit company by law and as such is not entitled to use the funds to sponsor political parties. In fact, the law taxatically imposes on her how she can use the proceeds. But we will certainly not find funding for political parties in that list. One of its owners, Ladislav Dušek, is also criminally prosecuted for tax evasion. At least that's the kind of information we could read in the media this morning. And the cherry on the cake? REMA The system sued the state, sued the Ministry of the Environment for lost profits worth CZK 581 million. And so I ask: Did this gift pass through your control? And you find it easy too? I may be too uptight, but doesn't that really strike you as odd? Again, I must repeat: The company of the prosecuted person sponsors a political entity, whose chairman is also the Minister of the Interior. So much for short. Interestingly, in fact, in all these companies there are traceable persons who have direct ties to Vice-President STAN Věslav Michalik. Even a person doesn't have to be a detective, just watch the media. And he confirmed it himself, Mr. Michalik. There may not be anything wrong with that yet, but when we remember how Mr Michalik did not explain, or refused to explain the origin of his money, and as the network of his Cyprus business spread, I look at the link that in some cases once again leads to Cyprus with much greater vigilance. I'll take the liberty of recalling a few recent headlines. The candidate for Minister Michalik borrowed over 100 million crowns from an anonymous company from Cyprus - iROZHLAS on 21st November. Tens of millions from an opaque Cypriot company went into the solar business of the future minister. Michalik did not clarify the origin of the money - Journal N November 22. The Cypriot company from which Michalik's company borrowed belonged to his wife. He promised to publish information about the business - ČT24 23rd November. And if I move a few weeks ahead of schedule, because nothing was explained, then I'll continue. Strange gifts in STAN's account. There are hundreds of thousands of amounts coming from Cypriot companies - Mladá fronta TODAY December 15th. The mayors received high donations from companies in loss - News December 16th. Michalikův's influence in STAN lasts. He has a connection with millions of sponsors from the Prior era - News List December 16th. A connected background of generous gifts. Police are interested in the Cypriot sponsors STAN - Mladá fronta TODAY December 22. And finally, this morning, STAN is sponsoring the companies of a wanted man. We're not returning the money yet, says Minister Austrian - News List. You really don't see the connection? Doesn't that really deserve answers? Vice-President of the STAN movement instead of many times promised explanations, he preferred to place his candidacy on the Minister of Industry and Trade. But all the doubts remain. Now it's not just about his person, it's about funding the government party, and he can't stay without an explanation. [[9.50 hours]] Where are those who are so fond of styling themselves into the greatest fighters for transparency, and by the way, the coalition partner of the STAN movement? Yes, where are the pirát and their fierceness in exposing iniquities? Those who circled the Republic with a prison bus, and many times subpoenaed the role of police officers, the investigators, and other times straight judges? I guess they're okay with that. Okay. I'll ask for you. Do you really find it okay to receive gifts from companies that manage losses? Do you find it okay to give gifts from companies that are owned by a criminally prosecuted person? And the company that apparently provided it illegally? Do companies expect any favors for their donations? I hope not. But unfortunately, it raises doubts. Do you really think that's not scandalous and worth explaining? It really isn't enough for me to hear that everything has gone through your internal control and everything is fine in your opinion. I still want to believe that the whole coalition will face this and we will finally hear a clear statement from the Prime Minister and Chairman of ODS Petr Fiala, Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, but especially from the Chairman of the Pirate Party Ivan Bartoš. Assuming, of course, the chairman of the STAN movement will explain it. I take that for a clear assumption. Because it was you who kept repeating the phrase about improving political culture, changing style. But now it's obvious that - and I still want to believe that it's not, that it's not just empty pre-election words that she took for her faster than the new government ever had enough to start working properly and gain confidence. All that's left of it is the word change. But the change is not yet in the direction you promised. In view of the seriousness of all the unanswered questions, I ask you very much to approve the programme, because the explanation deserves this House, but above all, and this is most important, the general public deserves it. If all questions are not answered and doubts are refuted, this government will continue to operate with a huge burden throughout its existence. I therefore call on you to explain and return these dubious gifts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u21	Thank you for your performance, too. I will add one more apology to the Minister Martin Kupka from today from 9.30 to the end of the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies without giving a reason. Now, with priority rights, Minister Vít Rakušan has asked for a speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for your word. Madam President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, we have seen a little bit of cake dog and kitty here. We've seen a lot of different information here that's been cooked together, and then it works in a, say, tabloid, scandalous way. I'd like to get back to the facts. And the first fact that I would like to state here, including experienced Members who have and have had the opportunity to change legislative standards in the Czech Republic in history, that the STAN movement did not in any way violate the law on the financing of political parties. [[for:]] That's the most important thing. And even in Mr Okamura's speech, we heard a sentence: at least it's unethical. But I'm talking about whether, as the STAN movement in this place, we're being blamed for breaking any law. All the gifts we have received are published in our transparent account and all the gifts we have received have been accepted in accordance with the law. And I refuse, yes, I reject the construction that the STAN movement received donations from foreign companies, which is, after all, I don't exactly remember the name of the meeting, but the name itself doesn't fit the reality anymore. All donations in a transparent account of the STAN movement, and each of you can find it now, can open our transparent account, all donations are either from individuals with origins from the Czech Republic or from legal persons with Czech IČO, located in the Czech Republic, taxes in the Czech Republic, employing people in the Czech Republic. Or give me one of those companies that gave us a gift that doesn't meet these assumptions that I was talking about. Once again: taxes in the Czech Republic, employ people in the Czech Republic, have headquarters in the Czech Republic and have Czech IČO. Another matter that appeared this morning synchronizedly before the vote was to begin on the trust of the government that was going on all night, the long debate, so the information that woke up the two-hour break on the list.cz server is also new to us. But now I want to point out one thing that makes me angry, and I hope that even experienced lawyers from the second political camp will stand up for me. Does the Home Secretary have the right to know about any ongoing police investigation? As Minister of the Interior, am I going to be able to access data on any criminal prosecutions? Is this affecting the police president that you're bowing down here in a variety of contexts? And as proof of that, I had no idea of any criminal prosecution of anyone related to any of our gifts until the news from server seznam.cz. And here I want to say clearly for the STAN movement, clearly, if information is shown that anyone who has provided us with a financial gift is connected with criminal activity - with criminal activity - and it would be in danger that the money actually has any connection to criminal activity, then, of course, at that point, we, as the Stan movement, will respond adequately. Of course, we will not keep that kind of money as the STAN movement. But now I ask you, do you have, if you don't have access to police sources, any information on who's being prosecuted? You have information about who's running this phase of criminal proceedings against? I don't. And I don't even have them as Home Secretary. I don't find them out for anyone. I don't kneel at anyone. And I'm not using that function in any way, and I'm never gonna take advantage of it. And, of course, no police president should do it, whoever he is at this point, whoever he is in the future. If that's how we think the Home Secretary is going to get more information about who's being prosecuted and all that, that's thinking that's very, very foreign to me. Another thing I'd like to mention. You mention that some company is in loss and so on. What do we control above and beyond the law for every STAN movement? I look at colleagues from other political parties, I believe they have similar systems. First of all, we're checking to see if the firm is in some unethical business. For example, we don't take sponsorship donations from any firms that are in the arms business, we don't take donations from companies that are in the gambling business. At the same time, we check in the public insolvency register to see if the company is insolvent. None of the companies you mentioned here are in insolvency. If the company's in accounting loss, we're not really in on it. We are signing a donation agreement with the company of its will, in which the company already undertakes in the text of our donation agreement that it then has no expectations of how our party will operate politically. That, of course, is already included in our donation agreement. [[10.00 hours]] And I don't know if the YES movement has ever accepted money in the meantime, and perhaps not since its chairman, former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, at a time when he was already prosecuted. Maybe she didn't accept the gift from him, and she has strict rules. Then I apologize to the YES movement. But from the way I looked at their books, they were receiving donations from a criminally prosecuted person who was Prime Minister Babiš. I don't know if Agrofert would have been lost without subsidies, either, but these are things that are just a demonstration of how flattering this argument is. And once again, if Mr. Okamura says I'm gonna file a criminal complaint, have the police investigate, have the court investigate - Mr. Okamura, do it. Do it, it's on the spot. If you have any suspicions of our funding that we have audited, checked, and we have never broken the law, do so. We'll be happy to. Criminal notice for what? The illegal funding of the STAN movement? We do not see any lawlessness in this regard, even according to external legal analyses. But do it. Have the police investigate. If you have any idea that we're living in a state where the Home Secretary is entering some kind of case and is influencing the investigation, you're pretty much questioning the quality of our police authorities. I don't doubt them. I hope the former ministers didn't do that. As the current minister, I certainly don't do it, and I'm not doing it. Give a criminal complaint to investigate the Police of the Czech Republic and make it appear that the STAN movement has not broken any law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. And Minister Petr Gazdík withdrew his application, which is why she has now been given priority rights to Vice-President Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, we are gathered here today for an extraordinary meeting. I was preparing this speech yesterday, and I wrote to myself in my speech that we approved of the government's trust and that the government's confidence was given a five-wheeler, and I had to cross that out at this point in time. Five-calice, or two-calice Pirstan and three-calice SPOLU. And I would just like to dedicate my speech to that two-coal PirSTAN, because it's the ones who ran together, and it's the subjects that were here in the past term. During the last term of office, the Pirate Party had 22 MPs, I don't know if I'm gonna say this exactly right now, and the Mayors of 6 Members. But the subjects here were on their own. In the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, they have decided to run together, and, of course, the starosta and the Independents have been here for a long time. First they ran with the support of the TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, and now they created the two-calice with the Pirates. I remember that when I became a Member, the pirát were here completely new, they came to the House and the Chairman of the Ivan Bartoš Party and Jakub Michálek, the chair of the MP, presented a number of anti-corruption laws. If we take a look at their Facebook page, and let me quote at this point: September 30, 2020 - we will convene an emergency meeting for anti-corruption law, we have long pointed out the failure of some anti-corruption mechanisms. And now the European Union has also given us the truth. According to her report, we have reserves in the fight against corruption. On July 3, 2020, more than a year ago, we passed an amendment to the Act on the Register of Contracts. Hundreds of contracts have been published. If you find anything isn't working, please let us know. 25. 6. 2020 on the constitutionally-legal committee, Jakub Michálek pushed through the resolution to better guard the state's responsibility for illegal decisions by officials and politicians. 28. 8. 2019 Jakub Michálek brought an action against Andrej Babiš to publish the National Investment Plan. And now here we have the reconstruction of the state -- I think we all know it -- which is dealing with all the anti-corruption laws right now. When I was at the Ministry of the Interior, I dealt with both the Act on the Register of Contracts and the Act that came into force and effective in supervising the financing of political parties. Thus, this Reconstruction of the State appreciated the policies of the Chamber of Deputies regarding the enforcement of anti-corruption laws. And as the most active and first place was Jakub Michálek. And at this point, I would like to call on the Czech Pirate Party, because it was running with the Jakub movement to express Michálek on this case either through its Chairman and Minister for Regional Development, Ivan Bartoš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. This has been the last contribution so far, the last speaker with priority rights for this debate. I'm getting an application. I'm just going to introduce the House with an apology. It is an apology to Mr Matěj Ondřej Havel today between 11 and 18 o'clock for work reasons. And now, please, Mr President. Chairman Marek Benda has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u26	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm gonna ask for a five-minute recess for the congressional club because I let people out for breakfast, considering how much time we've been here, so they can make it to the ballroom. I'd like five minutes for a meeting of the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. čili I'm declaring a break on this request, which I assume is within 10.12 hours. We'll continue in five minutes at 10.12.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, the end of the pause is coming. The break is over, and we can reopen the House's negotiations. I'm going to ask for peace of mind. I have three priority rights now logged in. It is just to be noted that, for reasons of work, the ANO club is now about to be excused by both the President and the First Vice-President for some time, as well as by the President and the First Vice-President for KDU. And the priority rights are now in the next order. Mr Karel Havlíček, then President Tomio Okamura, and then I noticed that President Jakub Michálek had applied. And that would be all the priority rights so far. I'll ask the MP... [[Minister Stanjura outside the microphone raises an objection to the chair, a briefing.]] Yes, I'll do it again. It was here to personally apologize to the Prime Minister of the ANO Chamber of Deputies for having a 45-minute business meeting, and I have it so marked. She also excused Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek as the first Vice-President for a similar period of time to have a work meeting. For this reason, we agreed with the Bureau that we would approach this - I see my colleagues agree to it - so that the priority right is now passed on to other members of the club, other members of the club's Bureau. And now please, Mr Karel Havlíček, your... Yes, he's still reporting with Technical Vice-President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u29	Thank you for the floor. My contribution will be short. I volunteered with a point of fact... [[Dissenting noise from opposition benches.]] I'm sorry, there's no open debate, I take it back. I wanted to be more specific about the apology system in order to unite the procedure. I'll do it on another agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u30	This was in the interests of the House's negotiations. Please, Ambassador Havlíček, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u31	Hello again, everyone. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about this. And I must begin by saying that I am extremely sorry about the double standard that is. A few hours ago, around midnight, I got a little lens from the new Minister of Industry and Trade for the fact that when we did review all the subsidy programs that were linked to covid, so at the tens and tens of thousands of requests that, you know very well that they had to be done de facto from week to week, you know how we were in a huge presense, you know that we were under pressure to do them across the board, so that there were those among them that are with the questioner, even here fell from other members of the government, that they were resources that were for companies that were based in tax havens, and that we did not behave correctly in this. We followed the letter of the law exactly. But suddenly we are a little further away and at this moment companies that provide resources for the running of political parties, which are proven to have owners in these tax havens, but they have IČO suddenly in the Czech Republic, yes, logically they have IČO in the Czech Republic, so at this point it doesn't matter. But that's not why I got off here, I'm just saying it to illustrate the situation. Sometimes the tax haven doesn't matter, sometimes the tax haven does. But there is one more thing that I would like to see the relevant masters ministers, virtually. And the secretary, in this case, they donated, and it concerns the case of the several entities that are within REMA. It's already been dropped here today, and I don't want to say it again because I think it's been said here. But beyond what has fallen here, it means that the question is whether the group of these companies could even provide a sponsorship gift, or whether its owners or connected persons who might be suspected of serious crime, so de facto with the same result if they could provide these resources, so here the fact that this company - I repeat once again: REMA, or it is one of those companies that provided those sponsorship donations - at the moment has an open claim against the Ministry of the Environment. The claim is in the nominal value of CZK 581 million. But because it has been going on for many and many years, this company is already suing the Ministry of Environment by almost one billion. And now it's kind of closing down in the sense that we have here a company called REMA, which is suing the Ministry of the Environment for nearly one billion crowns, and at the same time this company provides sponsors' donations to the STAN movement. And to make it even more interesting, it's put into context with the fact that when the company REMA, when the problem with the Ministry of the Environment arose, it was called. a collective system for the recovery of electrical equipment. It was simply that REMA wanted to be a partner for this collective collection system of electrical equipment. However, at that time another company was preferred, the name was ASEKOL, but this is not the most important. REMA, although it was then decided in favour of ASEKOL, despite the expression so called. The decay committee, of course, started to sue, and it's been dragging since then. [[10.20 hours]] The problem today is that the person who made the decision at the time, and the question is whether or not, for the benefit of REMA, Minister Ambrozek, who is returning to the Ministry of the Environment, is going to be an advisor to the Minister of the Environment today. Paradoxically, if the REMA really won the trial - let's not speculate, it can win and may not win - then the amount, probably not the whole, but up to a certain amount, will also be recovered from the former Minister of the Environment. But that's a side story that doesn't really belong to me to comment on. What we need to comment on in the context of providing the gift of the STAN movement is that the company that provided it simultaneously has an open lawsuit with the Ministry of Environment, where among others. I suppose he can also be a political deputy from the STAN movement, and the dispute is definitely not negligible, it is one billion crowns. I thought it right to say this in the context of what has been happening here since Vice Prime Minister Schillerová and other Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u32	Thank you. President Tomio Okamura is now with priority rights and will be prepared with priority rights by President Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u33	I was listening here to the performance of the first Vice Prime Minister and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement and Vít Rakušan didn't answer the key questions at all, so I'm going to repeat it. Mr President Do you know Austrian and Interior Minister who is the final owner, namely the natural persons, the companies, the natural person who owns the Cypriot companies that sponsor STAN? That's question number one. So I'm going to repeat it so you can hear it well, because you didn't answer the question. That's one of the key questions. So tell me who is the final owner, the natural person or the natural person who owns the Cypriot companies that sponsor the STAN movement. That's the question. The second question is to uncover the obscure structure of Cypriot companies so that people know from what activity and from what particular individuals - entrepreneurs, the money sponsored by STAN, comes from. That's two questions. You didn't answer them here, so I repeat them again. Who, in person, to be clear, is sponsoring you? So the citizens know. You're the Home Secretary, you're a government party, so people know who sponsors you, what they're doing and what their goal is. And I would add a third thing to that. In the last parliamentary term, you have enforced the law on real owners, so why don't you enforce it all of a sudden? Why aren't you setting an example all of a sudden? And the question is also for the pirát. So I'm glad to have you here - perhaps for a different purpose - Mr Michálek, but it's a good thing you're joining me, so I'm gonna add that question here. I don't know what you wanted to talk about. And it doesn't bother you like the pirát that it's not clear who sponsored your campaign? Or maybe he's still sponsoring? Because you ran in the Pirates-STAN coalition. So you don't mind that your partner, that your coalition partner, who also contributed to your election campaign out of that money, came into your account... Well, you're shaking your head, Mr. Michálek here is shaking his head, so you don't mind not knowing who's sponsoring the campaign, who's sponsoring your coalition partner of the STAN movement? I mean, you guys were also talking about the law about the real owners, so why aren't you talking now? So I expect Mr. Michálek here for the pirát also to invite Vít Rakušan or Mr. Gazdík here to answer these two questions. Those are the key questions, so answer them if your conscience is clear!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u34	Thank you. And now the last registered, President Jakub Michálek, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u35	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear citizens, since I have been invited to comment on this - which is not necessary for all of us to comment on everything, is it? We did that yesterday. But since it's our coalition partner, I think it's appropriate to say a few words. The Pirate Party has long advocated clean policy financing. We believe that this is the only way that political parties can accomplish their main task in democracy, that is to serve all citizens. Parties should not take money contrary to the law or from dubious sources. It is always the responsibility of the political party. And it is, of course, the fact that in some cases this will be found late, additionally, because not all problematic data are available, and in that case, an additional remedy is needed. We take the view that in the cases at issue, it would be appropriate to return the money. I don't think this moral attitude is the kind of thing we should be meeting here all day. It is important to add that if we want to approach this matter fairly, we should measure everyone equally so that there is no double standard, as my colleague Patrik Nacher says. The President of Rakušan has committed himself to returning the money if there is a particular suspicion of a connection with criminal activity or something similar. But it must be said that those who criticize this place should primarily look at their finances, because the ANO movement is in a very similar situation. Thirty million crowns were received on donations from a criminally prosecuted person. Thirty million crowns. And further from the company controlled by this criminally prosecuted person, he received another CZK 11.5 million. This means CZK 41 million from a criminally prosecuted person or company they own. According to the State Guardian, this criminally prosecuted person has, virtually. The group or companies that are included there have a total of 8 684 contracts of CZK 79 billion since 2016. There's 153 companies tied up in there. And this criminally prosecuted person, who sponsored the ANO movement, received 8 402 subsidies worth CZK 12 927 823 790. [[A round of applause for members of the Pirates and STAN.]] She received another CZK 140 million from the public administration, from ministries, other authorities, regional authorities, etc., were contracts for Mafra holding, which is once again owned by this criminally prosecuted person according to the Forum weekly. I will be the first to sign a bill that will make the funding of political parties even more transparent. Let's do it together, I don't have a problem with it. But it takes all of us, all of us equally to abandon this hypocrisy, when someone sees a splinter at his neighbor's side and doesn't see a beam in his own eye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u36	Thank you. And now with priority rights, Minister Petr Gazdík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u37	Good noon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will only briefly answer the two questions that have been raised here. First, Mr. Okamura. Dear colleague, we have no disguised structure. Unfortunately, I must reiterate that we also have, according to our external lawyers, clearly verified that the donations from our supporters are in line with the law on funding political parties and movements. We haven't broken anything, and if you think the law is inadequate, I'm joining Jakub Michálek's challenge, let's change it. If you felt inadequate in the past and this is not just a purposeful attack on the STAN movement, you could have done so. As far as I know, you didn't. Then Mr Havlíček asked about the company REMA. We've been looking into that, too. REMA is not an exclusive collective system operator, it also has other business activities. The representatives of the company assured us that the sponsor's donation comes from these activities, not from the fees, and thus complies with the requirements of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u38	Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen. At this point, I see that, with priority rights, the chair of the ANO member's club, Mrs Alena Schillerová, is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Prime Minister Michálek, you will not be able to do so. By pointing at someone else. That's what you've been showing for four years. And we're happy to explain everything, no problem. Open the debate. But let's go back to the merit of this meeting. That's not gonna work out. That doesn't explain why you don't mind. Why you're just fine, so-called. You'd rather throw some senseless billions to distract us. I understand. But believe me, citizens don't. And it's definitely not consistent with what you've been saying all along. Now, about what the President of Rakušan said. There's no way I'd dare to stylize into someone who's judging a violation of the law. For that we have courts, law enforcement agencies. I believe that if they find out any doubt, they'll be concerned. So I'm not worried about it. I'm leaving your note unnoticed about some synchronized information. I didn't understand what you meant, if you meant today's information on the List server, so I don't know which political subject was more the subject of monitoring and information on this server than the ANO movement. So you got there for the first time, and it's getting really bad. I think it's just okay that independent media measures by the meter fall to whom. But you know, Minister, it - I don't even think you're interfering in any way with the choice of the police president, it's not easy at all. We chose the Director General of Customs. The Armed Forces Act has firm, clear rules. There's no way to get a friend out of the street. But I don't think you could interfere directly with criminal proceedings, I don't suppose, I can't imagine that I would ever interfere with anything that was beyond my reach within the Ministry of Finance, so I'm not going to suspect you of that at all. But they're different problems. This, for example, if proven to be non-discriminatory funding for a political party, can lead to its abolition, and that is a form of administrative proceedings, and I do not predict, I say purely theoretically, which is run by the Ministry of the Interior, and you can then enter into the role of the competent appeal body or body, which can decide at some stage of the proceedings. And that's just a dangerous conflict of interest. You know, you're the one who complained that you couldn't actually have known about any lawbreaking. I understand that, I understand that as a lawyer, as a person. But then it doesn't go together with, I remember the time, I don't know if it was 2019, I guess, but maybe I'm wrong, sometime in the spring, when she joined office, and she was there relatively briefly, my former colleague, Minister of Justice Benešová, as you were very actively involved in demonstrations that addressed her threat that she was a threat to the independence of justice. I think that all the time she was a minister, I didn't notice, we sat close to each other, we often talked, she didn't notice that she was some kind of threat to the independence of justice. And even though the hysteria came up here, you didn't hesitate, and at the demonstrations you stood up in the front row, and I even feel like you were performing on stage. I only get it from public sources and the media. That means that you know, that's what my colleague Patrik Nacher is talking about, who would definitely be here right now if there was an open debate, that's his double standard. And I don't think you've fully explained it. It doesn't come off the table like that. Because the aftertaste, the aftertaste stays here. And you're saying that REMA isn't just a nonprofit, that it has some other sources of funding, and it has provided you with them, because it's already something so unpleasant for you, unpleasant, that aftertaste, a huge aftertaste that I would always try to bypass such a problem by arch and definitely return the money. For me, I personally say and appeal again to this Chamber of Deputies - and it is necessary to realise that even the coalition parties that will vote maybe, I will not presume it, in order that the subject of this extraordinary meeting should not be admitted to the debate, so if it proves - and I do not know how it will turn out, I am really just talking about the unstandardities, the suspicion - that it will prove that it was not okay, and you cannot know that today either, so in their own way, the aftertaste will stick to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u40	Thank you, too. I'll ask if anyone else is applying with priority rights to the agenda. I see Mr. Andrej Babiš, Chairman of the ANO movement. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u41	So hello. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak at all. But when I heard Mr. Michálek, who is ill with Babiš. He's sick. He's so sick, he goes to the police directly to the stork's nest file to turn in my wife's cousin. Normally, he goes to the police and lists my wife's cousin. He's sick. Sick of Babiš. He's a psychopath. [[A commotion in the hall.]] And he's sick with a conflict of interest. A conflict of interest, which was long, long ago not, 2016, invented by the founder of one party with the Prime Minister, who fired me. And he's been talking incredibly crazy shit. And of course, he follows the rule: the best is the attack. The best is to attack. Just like Minister Rakušan did, and I'll get to that. So what did you spank here, Mr Michálek, through Madam President? I don't understand what you're talking about. When the YES movement arose and had no money before the election succeeded, yes, my former companies donated about 34 million and I gave a loan. And I have not been prosecuted for purpose. I wasn't purposefully prosecuted. I'm purposefully prosecuted, and when they found out that I wasn't stealing with them, they did the Lex Babiš, and then they came up with the Haphae Nest, which was created sometime in 2008, and if I didn't go into politics, no one ever heard of it. It's the stork that Mr Bendl and Mrs Langšádlová approved and checked Mr Kalousek, and everything was okay before I went into politics. So Mr. Michálek lies normally. He's lying. And I don't know why he's lying. So the ANO movement is fine, believe me. Everything's fine, and there's never been any non-transparable money. [[10.40 hours]] When Mr Sobotka invented a bond case and wanted to get rid of me and then fired me from the government in May 2017, I am the only politician since the creation of a separate Czech Republic, which published a tax return from 1996 to 2016, for twenty years all tax returns, all my revenues, which were controlled by two EY and PWC audit firms from four, the main. And that's public knowledge. So what Mr. Michálek is talking about here is absolute nonsense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u42	Through Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u43	Through Madam President, I am sorry. And now for Mr. Rakušan, the Minister. He's obsessed with me too, even before the election, Babiš still challenged me. And he's attacking again, talking about me again. I don't understand why you're talking about me here, Minister. Why are you talking about me? You interviewed CNN yesterday, and you said again that I'm supposed to influence Mafra. But today it was published by the News List. Cyprus firm. Cyprus firm. The owner sends money to Cyprus. You're getting money from Cyprus. So there's a difference. So you can't say here anymore, the seznam that helped you win the election, that I would influence him. I don't think so. I guess it's objective. Then I don't understand why you're attacking me again. I didn't even want to perform. Not at all. [[Resurrection and laughter in the hall.]] But I won't take it. The Minister's on the phone. He's sitting on the edge. I don't know, you should sit here like Mr. Okamura said, but I don't think you want to be in the picture with me. Never mind. But the Czech TV isn't broadcasting it anyway, they're only sending out these extraordinary meetings against Babiš, so be cool. So the essence of this whole thing, these things, is somewhere else entirely. And I'll explain it to you now. It can be traced. Because the whole point is where Mrs. Michaliková got the money for her husband's loans from Cyprus and where she taxed the income. That's the question. The diary N, and first Mr. Michalik, and that's your guru, he's a banker, he knows about it, so we can go back to 2006, we can track it all down, where one bank sought a contract with the Czech Post, and Mr. Michalik worked at Creditanstalt Investment Bank, collected 200 million for it, then there went some commission of 300 million. It's been saved somehow, it hasn't been investigated. And that question is very simple. That's your main guru, the vice president of the movement who's handling all of this, and there's some trace of him everywhere. So what the Minister argues is that I.C.O. and loss companies are irrelevant. What matters is whether the money from Cyprus is money that comes from some kind of crime. If it's the money somebody might have washed that day and let them through Cyprus. And Mr. Michalik first said it wasn't his. Then he admitted it was his wife. So the question is simple: where did Mrs. Michaliková get the money for her husband's loan - but they have it together - which she provided from Cyprus, and where did she tax the income? And what kind of activity they come from. And it's EUR 4.6 million, the loan from Cyprus. Strange, isn't it? [[A note from the government bench.]] Come on, it's written here. That's Diary N, that's also an anti-Babish diary. So it says here that in the past, she borrowed at least EUR 4.6 million through the Cypriot firm Lowfield Investment. Neither Michalik nor his wife, Hana, originally wanted to say who was behind the tax haven company and what the origin of the money was. Finally, Mr Michalik admitted that it was supposedly Mrs Michaliková. So she was probably a successful businesswoman, but it would be interesting to know where she taxed it, where she made it, what companies, how it got there. And it's a terrible coincidence that STAN's bank account started to come up with the money from Cyprus, so someone might think that the Czech companies that were losing, yes, the Czech IČO, if it's not the money, if it's not the same money from Cyprus. So it's been doing some background checks, but nothing's been investigated. That was in 2008 and then, actually, Mr. Michalik was the leader of your candidate, but then Mr. Kalousek pulled him down, so he didn't run anymore. It just happened again. So the questions are simple: Why is the government's STAN movement financed from Cyprus's tax havens? Who owns all the Cypriot companies that finance STAN. Who owns their mothers? Who are the final owners? Where did Mrs Michaliková get the money for her husband's loan from Cyprus, where she taxed this income, and from what activity did it come from? So that's what this is about. That Cyprus, I don't know, that's for the Minister too, he's still somewhere next to Cyprus, because you've actually already had a hanky-panky with that Kypr guy at the cologne hall. No? Geosan won a tender for reconstruction of Prague Street in Cologne. The original price was 30 million, later the work was increased to 50 million, construction built instead of the year two years thanks to botched project preparation, then there is some dispute. Interesting is the gift, and again CZK 100,000 from Geosan Development in 2018, which is based in Cologne, but its owner is the Cypriot company again. The director of the parent Cyprus tax deposit box is Lukáš Sedlatý from the law firm Brož, Sedlatý, who also did some business in the Prague transport company. It's Cyprus again. He's all over you, Cyprus. So I say, please stop attacking me. I've been under attack here for a long time, I've shown everything, I've documented everything, and now it's your turn. And the question is simple: Where did Mrs. Michaliková get that kind of money from Cyprus? And EUR 4.6 million, that's a lot of money. I don't know how many crowns that is today. It's about 120 million or 130 million. And that's the basic question that your chief vice president of the movement, his wife's in business, his sister-in-law's in business, everyone's in business, the whole family, and they got some weird money. And then it shows up everywhere, Cyprus. That's it. So please try explaining things and stop attacking me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u44	Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan has signed up with priority law. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. I've only got two lines left. I do not want to delay this, because after Mr Babiš's statement - we have to get used to it - it is a bit funny. Did anyone here in Malostranske Square notice the containers we're all walking around when the facade was being repaired here? So please, the House facade was being repaired by the Cypriot company Geosan. This is about the last year, if you've noticed. I don't know if it competed during the last leadership of the Chamber of Deputies who competed, but it was Geosan. It's a construction company. And when Mr Babiš talked about it, we have signed the firm Geosan in Cologne, and it is conclusive, so far they have not paid for the messed-up contract and we have received the CTU's opinion, signed by the dean, and it will be dealt with by the January City Council. So to presume that the company we haven't paid after two years, we're negotiating some kind of advantage, and I really had nothing to do with the fact that she was repairing the House. And as for Mrs. Michaliková and her business, I feel like the FAÚ was looking into it, I don't know if it's ever been done before or for you. He didn't come to anything in his conclusions. And again, Mrs. Michaliková's artificial association of business activities with those gifts that have now come into our account transparently from clearly defined legal entities. Cupcake and pussycats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u46	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else is applying with priority rights. So, Mr. Chairman of the Andrej Babiš movement. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u47	Minister, you've got it all wrong with the FAÚ. Do you know how it is? When I became Minister of Finance, the best finance minister so-called, the founder of ODS B, who went there and abused the FAO on it - specifically against Vondra and against the odeesce. I've been there once in my life. And then everyone was afraid I'd do the same thing, I didn't do that. That's how the FAO review committee was formed here in the House. So it was different. The cop who was investigating that Michalik back then to investigate him well was promoted, so he didn't investigate. So he didn't investigate, and he was promoted to head of the FAO. So you can look it up in Economia, that's where it's all written, that's articles two six, two eight. So it was completely different. So it wasn't investigated, the police officer was promoted to head of the FAO. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u48	Thank you. Mr Jakub Michálek has now signed up with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u49	I really don't want to go back to the issue we're discussing here. But, through Madam President, I would like to address Mr Babiš. Democracy is also about the ability to listen to other opinions, even those that are not flattering. And it's not the first time you've responded to other opinions by calling your colleagues here in front of all of us, in front of TV viewers, in front of our families debauchery labels and insults. This does not belong on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Specifically, it's a disciplinary offense. So I'm asking you to refrain from this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u50	Now with priority rights... no one's reporting, but with priority rights here I have the application of the chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u51	So, if I sum up the outcome of today's meeting, because no one is now reporting for the debate, then Mr Vít Rakušan, Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the STAN movement, did not tell us, neither Mr Gazdík nor Mr Farský, who is the end owner, namely the natural person, or the natural person who owns the Cypriot companies in the tax haven, which is the sponsor of STAN. That's the first conclusion that's here. He just won't say it. He won't say who sponsors them. Just don't and don't and don't. He won't say it. [[Laughs in the courtroom.]] He can't hear a repeated question. He's deaf. But we know that deaf isn't, that he hears well. Secondly, Mr Vít Rakušan, Minister of the Interior and First Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the STAN movement, refuses to reveal the obscure structure of Cypriot companies, I have clearly described it here so that people know what activities and from which entrepreneurs comes the money that sponsors the STAN movement. That's the result of today's meeting. So there is nothing left but - we are gathered together, members of the SPD and members of the ANO movement, we have already collected 40 signatures to create an investigation committee. Because if you don't want to say it, you need to investigate. And we will propose this tomorrow as the first item in tomorrow's House of Deputies meeting and, of course, it will be about the vote. So if the five-police government wants us to really fight for transparency and for that, and if the STAN movement has a clear conscience, you will agree tomorrow, because you have a majority of 108 votes here, your coalition, you will agree to the establishment of the Chamber of Investigation Committee, which will therefore have to investigate if Vít Rakušan does not want to say who is the final owner, the natural person who owns the Cypriot companies in the tax havens that sponsor STAN. He will also try to uncover the obscured structure of Cypriot companies so that people know what activities and what entrepreneurs the money comes from. Because - in quotation marks - Mr. Clean, Vít Rakušan just doesn't want to say. They don't want to expose it, they don't want to admit it. Because they don't have a clear conscience. So if they don't want to say it, it's obvious, the reasons. So that's our conclusion, and that's what our steps will be tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u52	Thank you, too. I'll ask if anyone else is applying for the meeting. If this is not the case, we shall now proceed to the vote on the draft agenda for the meeting. I'm gonna sing. There's a check-out request. I'm going to sign you all out. I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your voting cards. And I will now remind you of what we are going to vote on. We will be voting on the proposal for a 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing with one item, explaining the origin of STAN's financing money from abroad. So, at this point, I'm opening the vote. Whoever agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In voting order number 2, 179 Members were enrolled, 85 for them, 87 against them. The proposal was not adopted and the agenda was not approved. This concludes today's meeting. By not approving this show, I remind you - yes, I do, Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u53	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Just for the stew. I'm not questioning the vote, but I've been pressing "no," and I've got a "yes" on high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u54	Thank you. And so let me remind you, because we did not approve the agenda for today's 7th meeting, I am ending this meeting and I remind you that today at 6 pm we will continue the suspended 6th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, paragraph 68 - Request of the Government of the Czech Republic for a vote of confidence. Thank you. Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u55	I would just take advantage of the situation and remind the members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee that we would meet for a moment at the piano for an organizational meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-01-13-ps2021-007-01-000-000.u56	Have a nice day, everyone.
