ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-014-092.u1	92. Proposal for the election of members of the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure I ask once again for the introduction of Mr Kolovratník's President of the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-014-092.u2	So, by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies to appeal to the members of the Supervisory Boards, I can use the word or turnover to "empt" these councils in the new term, and we can now proceed to the following points, namely the choice of new members of the Supervisory Boards. After a preliminary agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs on the electoral committee, we have announced a deadline for new nominations so that the legal ten-day deadline between the nomination for the commission and today is respected, and everything could be prepared for the election in a secret way. With the Supervisory Board of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, the deadline was until 25 March until 12 hours and nominations are contained in the resolution of the Election Commission No 56 of 25 March. The candidates' proposals are as follows: Ivan Adamec - SPOLU, Karel Havlíček for the ANO movement, Jan Hrnčíř - SPD, Jindřich Lechovský - Pirates and Mayors, Jan Sviták - pirát and starosta, Pavel Šustr - SPOLU. The special law does not provide for a choice, the electoral commission proposes a secret choice. We will also vote on this secret way, so I do not want to second Madam President, but please stay in the hall, we will still vote on it. First of all. Secondly, I have important information to give here. We went through the nominations submitted to the electoral committee yesterday, and in this case, we drew the attention of the Pirates and Mayors coalition to the possible conflict of interest of one of the candidates, Mr Ing. Jan Sviták, who is the statutory deputy chief of transport, and he would have been in conflict of interest, respectively, if elected to the Supervisory Board of SFDI, or in incompatibility of functions pursuant to Section 11 of Act No. 104/2000, when a member of the Supervisory Board of the SFDI cannot also serve in the management and supervisory bodies of legal persons to whom contributions from the Fund are granted. My colleagues and I have discussed this matter. On this basis, we received a letter, where the Pirates and Mayors coalition withdraws this nomination. The Election Commission accepted this, adopted the resolution per rollam number 61 of 6 April. It means that in this resolution, therefore, the electoral commission takes note of the withdrawal of Mr Ing's nomination. Jan Sviták. His name doesn't appear on the list, the nomination is withdrawn. And all I'm going to say here is that you're going to be picking out the other five names. Of course, I cannot anticipate the outcome of the election, I can judge by the political agreement, how the clubs are decided or how they will support individual candidates. Therefore, if all seats are not filled, the second round will take place, and if they were not occupied after the second round, then the election commission will normally announce a new deadline for the vacancy, where it is assumed that those who have withdrawn the nomination, the Pirate and Mayors coalition, could again submit a new nomination. So much for that point. I am now asking for the opening of the debate and then for the vote on the secret vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-04-06-ps2021-016-06-014-092.u3	Thank you for putting it in. I am opening a debate that nobody is reporting to, which is why I am ending the debate. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I have registered an interest in opt-out, so I ask you to come forward again, because we will vote first, namely on the way in which the vote is made. It's designed to make a secret choice. Initiating vote on a secret election here at this point. I ask you to vote already. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 134 registered 140 present, for 134, against 0. So we've decided on a secret way to choose. I interrupt this point so that we can make the choice. Opening point number
