ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u1	102. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2023 /German press 315/ - third reading The Minister of Finance is already here, I see the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, so I remind you that the amendments have been delivered to you as a House press 315/3, and the draft accompanying resolutions have been delivered to you as a House press 315/4. So now we will continue with the interrupted debate, which I see Mrs Mračková has already appeared, as far as I know, but he did not delete it before who was driving, but Mr Mašek is also ready. So please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Brož follows. Please, you have the floor. [[Ambassador Mašek does not have a working microphone.]] I don't think it's a working microphone, even though I can see it here that I turned it on for you. I'll try again. Please try.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u2	So I'll try, yes. Madam President, Mr Finance Minister, colleagues, I would like to comment briefly on the budget, namely on Chapter 335 of the Ministry of Health. Health care consumes huge amounts of money, this year it will be around CZK 530 billion. But when we talk about the Ministry of Health and its chapter, it's about 3 to 4 percent of that amount. This year it is CZK 22.6 billion, in 2020 and 2021 it was around 30 billion. At the time, these were high amounts because of the covid and things associated with it - protective devices, which were variously criticised, testing in hospitals, in medical facilities. There were also vaccinations and some special medications that were delivered centrally to hospitals and helped to cure the hardest states of the covid. The decline, which was from 2021 to 2022, or this year's year, was quite courageous. The bet actually worked out for the minister in a way, because the spring wave of covid was not so serious and the expected autumn has not yet arrived. I would just like to remind you here, and I can't forgive it: if you remember the 35 hours of fighting for the pandemic law that we were most of at the time, including the coalition, well knew that it was useless that it was over these very days, i.e. in the days when the epidemic was not yet here, it was all over. However, at that time the hundred and eights showed their strength and useless pandemic law, which no one can even remember today, is behind us. I would like to remind you - and I do not wish this: if a serious wave of pandemics had come and changed the covid, its characteristics, then even the pandemic law would not have helped us and we would have to go back to standard crisis management procedures, lean on the emergency situation, address it centrally and on the side of the regions, lean on the emergency situation and the resulting procedures. But I'm going back to the Department of Health budget for 2023. There was another drop. The decline was originally by 8 billion and it was corrected, and at present it is a drop from 22.6 to 15.6 billion crowns, which means 7 billion. I don't think there's much to go on about. I'd just like to remind you of two things that I'm very sorry about. One is that there is a drop of 100 billion for regional hygiene as part of the decline. Here I would like to remind the covid once again, when we relied on the hygiene, when we tried to strengthen them quickly, even for the part-timers who were there as calltakers and helped arrange the isolation of patients and so on. Then we forgot about them. At present, we are preparing to reorganize hygiene, where we have been told, by the way, that it will be introduced to us in the autumn of this year. We do not yet have it, but we are still making arrangements to take 100 billion from hygiene and increase the uncertainty of workers in hygiene. So this is one of the steps that I would like to criticise in this budget. Then there was a deficit of about 2 billion for the Ministry of Health, and this was a deficit which concerned that there was no co-financing from European subsidies and that the VAT issue was not secured there. But here I know that the government has already taken some steps to correct it. I would like to remind you - not that many people know - that the Minister of Health, who rules only this small amount - once again say, of the 530 billion that flow through health care, he has 15,6 billion available for next year, and of which he pays the operation of the authorities, the regional sanitation station, which he wants to reorganize in an unknown way for us, the State Institute of Health, the State Institute for Drug Control and some of the finance solves in the form of investment for his contribution organizations, let us understand hospitals there. So I would just like to wish the Minister of Finance, in relation to the Ministry of Health, that that step is right, because he is really very economical, and that the covide wave really misses us, because if there was to be some serious pandemic wave, then there would be a assumption that you just have to add a lot of money there. Now I would like to continue to fund health as a whole. I mentioned 530 billion, of which 437 billion have flown through health insurance this year. Health insurance is general in the Czech Republic and, by the way, guarantees all participants in health insurance that they are legally entitled to the best possible care. If we repeat this twice, it is a huge commitment and it is a really big problem to guarantee people, which I assume is also the Minister of Finance and is one of those who promote voluntary supplementary insurance. Mr Kabátek, director of VZP, can imagine that private insurance could amount to up to 3% of the amount that passes through public health insurance or health insurance as such. I would like to remind you here that even without this extra insurance, all citizens of the Czech Republic are entitled to the best possible care under current legislation, so that this cannot be based on the need for additional insurance. I would also like to mention here what was actually the development of health insurance in the past and what is its current state of affairs. Health insurance has increased over the last five years from 300 billion to those 437 billion, so it was during the previous government, when payments for state insured people gradually increased. That's almost six million, by the way. We know their song, so I guess we don't have to repeat it here. However, in 2018, CZK 967 per month was paid for state insured persons from the state register and currently or at the end of 2021 and at the beginning of 2022 it was raised to CZK 1,967, or CZK 1,000. Then we searched for the amount that the so-called automaton of payments for state insured persons should start, their automatic increase. We were very much in favour of coming out of the amount of CZK 1,960, or roughly CZK 2,000. We wanted this so that we could get a certain perspective for health care, because four years of Babišův's government meant that we were 7.5% of the GDP that was applied to health care over the last ten or 15 years, so we got to a light European above average, to 10 percent of GDP, which is actually a standard in a better part of the European Union and allows us to provide care, as I said the citizens were entitled to it. [[14.40 hours]] Minister Stanjura took 14 million from the health insurance reserves, we know that, many times it has been discussed here, and we also know that this year and next year we will just survive. But if you talk to those insurance directors, the VZP will survive relatively politely, but there are smaller insurance companies that are already in trouble. So it's a question of whether it's supposed to be a preparation to reduce the number of insurance companies, merge and so on, or just the pressure that if we take some bigger funding from public health insurance, then we have nothing left but to go through the insurance option. Everyone in their heads has to sort that out on their own. By the way, at present, in 2022, he goes to the state health insurance policy, or from the treasury of the state 127.9 billion, and just for the record, that amount accounts for about 31 percent of public health insurance, so that 31 percent are payments for state insurance. And here I would like to mention one more moment. The state has paid the least for the state insured in the long term; it still paid about 967 crowns in 2018. We got almost CZK 2,000, but let me remind you that there are other categories that pay, and they're employers, they're employees. For employees it is several hundred crowns above 5,000 on average per employee and one month into public health insurance. Next, they're businessmen, where it's about 2,700. Then they are persons without taxable performance, there is about CZK 2,200. In the long run, there was pressure to eliminate injustice, because each of us, whatever category you belong to, you have the right to care to the extent that I have said here, and there is some injustice depending on who pays, and in fact, the care is the same. There's maximum solidarity. Here was the effort to increase the payment for state insured people, and, as I said, the perspective, if it were based on higher amounts, it would also be promising for you, for your government, for another, say, three years. And now I'm going to say why -- because we're going to get paid for state insured people from the present year -- originally planned 127.9, but since we've had a little bit longer in the House, it's worth about 134 billion this year, so by next year it's going to rise to 139,7, which is not 9 percent more, as it originally was, but about 4 percent more. Then year-on-year from 2023 to 2024 it will rise to 145.9, which is 4.4% again, and for 2025 it's only 14.8, that's the calculation of the vending machine, which is 2 percent. And that's just not gonna be enough for you - I'm not gonna tell you, that's not gonna be enough for quality medical care. So if we want to maintain quality, quantity and availability of care, you'll still have to put the money there. So from my point of view - and the budget, and now I'm not talking about the Ministry of Health because it's really marginal, but from the point of view of funding health care through public health insurance - I think that's unrealistic expectations on your part, Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u3	Mr Kamal Farhan now wants to respond with a factual remark. Please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I'm interested in the sentence that my previous speaker here said the 1.7 billion government is already dealing with. I've pointed out in the past that projects... or the National Recovery Plan, where the DHP is missing from them, but there's no 1.7 billion of them anywhere. The Ministry, headed by Minister Válek on the Health Committee, said they would be covered by the state budget. It surprised me a little, of course, because there is such confused communication in eKLEP before the state budget is presented, when the Ministry of Health writes to the Minister of Finance and asks him for 1.7 billion, that otherwise he cannot implement this National Recovery Plan for Health. The Treasury says he won't give him the money. So I have a simple question. I'm glad the government is handling this, as has been said, and they're gonna figure it out. But at the moment I have not found 1.7 billion to cover VAT in the National Recovery Plan in the budget. I may have been looking badly, but I'd be happy, Minister of Finance or Minister of War, to tell us where the 1.7 billion in the state budget is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u5	We are going back to the debate where Mr Brož will now speak and Mr Tureček will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, let me address Chapter 334, which is the Ministry of Culture. First, perhaps for many now quite unexpectedly, I would like to appreciate Minister Baxa's efforts to increase the Ministry of Culture's budget for 2023. The state budget in this chapter is proposed totalling CZK 18,5 billion. But this concludes all praises because, as such a Czech proverb says, "the effort is not cokerable" and culture remains truly popelka for this government. These figures seem high and the reality of the last few years is so dramatic that any assistance to our cultural institutions is absolutely desirable, especially - and I am stressing here again, especially at this time. Culture has had a very difficult covid period, when it survived only through the support of the past government. When we look at the culture budget in more detail, we find that CZK 7.9 billion is allocated to the contribution organizations established by the Ministry of Culture. At first glance, it is almost half of the budget. This may also seem to be a high amount, but when we look more closely, in more detail, we see that, for example, in the National Treasure of Culture and Heritage Programme, this amount amounts to only CZK 500 million. All contribution organizations, as well as all private entities moving in the field of culture in the Czech Republic, continue to be affected by the far-reaching effects of the pandemic crisis. Theaters, cinemas, museums and many other institutions were forced to shut down completely during the pandemic and radically limit their activities. It is difficult to return to normal regime now, and long after the end of the pandemic measures it took people to revisit cultural institutions. And that's a very important thing in this story, a visit to people in cultural institutions, and I'll mention it. It may be because of fear of people's concentration, but also because of changing their habits during long lockdowns. A lot of activities have moved home, maybe we're listening to the music from Spotify today, watching Netflix instead of the movies. So, after cultural institutions were able to take a little breath for the first time and start looking for the better tomorrows, during which they hoped that the profits would put a little bit of pressure on the huge losses of the pandemic, many more wounds came for them. Energy prices are rising and you can imagine how much energy is needed to light the National Museum and how much to heat the State Opera or screen movies in multiplexes. In addition to rising energy prices, of course, fuel prices are also rising, which is being translated into rising prices of supply and transport of all goods, materials. Inflation has hit everything. Practically everything you can think of has increased by up to ten percent. It is no different for building materials and works that are needed to maintain the state of cultural monuments, reconstruction of buildings, minor repairs and maintenance, and are also burdened with the dramatically increasing cost of work. And if I pull that one thing out, protecting and saving our monuments must be a priority for all of us, because there's absolutely nothing to put off in this area. It's just the sights are decaying and falling. Last but not least, employees' salaries are also rising. In the state administration, it's going to be about 10 percent negotiated. The employer's statutory contributions to the state budget are also linked to this hand-in-hand. A number of institutions will therefore have to increase the budgets for personnel expenditure significantly. In light of all the above, an increase in the Ministry's budget of CZK 3 billion does not seem so great news. [[14.50 hours]] If you are not convinced by the arguments already mentioned, take a look at the state support programme for professional theatres and permanent symphony orchestras and choirs, which is allocated to the year 2023 for a total of CZK 400 million. This is certainly not an amount that could cover dramatic increases in the cost of theatres that have no reserves at all. Similarly, the programme for the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments and public services of museums amounts to only CZK 713 million in the state budget for the whole of next year. These are absolutely minimal amounts, and we have therefore proposed a number of amendments, together with Mrs Pokorna Jermanová and Mrs Ondřej Babka. And before I close it, last but not least, we should also take into account how the economic situation in the Czech Republic will develop and with what expectations we can enter this year. It is not to be expected, as I have already mentioned, that people will spend more spending on culture than they do this year in their gross poverty, when they are dozens of percent poor. I fear that the trend will be rather opposite, and culture can become unnecessary expenditure in household budgets, and therefore culture and cultural institutions will need greater and greater support from the state if we do not want our cultural heritage to fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u7	Minister Baxa has now signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u8	Madam President, dear colleagues, allow me to respond briefly to Mr Brož's speech. Of course, Mr Member, through the President of the Chamber of Deputies, I fully honor your right to speak on this subject. I don't think it's a big deal to compare the numbers you're talking about before with what's really in the budget and how the numbers evolve over time. The Ministry of Culture has entered this difficult year with a draft budget that has been inherited from past times. It contained some covido compensation between 2020 and 2021, but unfortunately - and I will stress this again - the past government, the government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KSČM movement missed out, an opportunity in which there was unprecedented economic prosperity in the country, when the revenues of the state budget increased dramatically, when the great disaster and the great weight of rising energy prices, the war in Ukraine and so on were not imposed on our country, and when it was simply easy to achieve 1 percent of the state budget spending on culture. After our administration started, it was necessary to consolidate the draft budget at all. I just need to remind you of a thing that is already forgotten today, but I negotiated compensation for the covideo of the affected organization of hundreds of millions of crowns in January of this year. The government accepted my proposal and accepted it, and it was at a time when it was claimed that it was money in the budget, but when we got there, there was nothing in the budget. So let me just remind you that at least as far as my department is concerned, I really inherited the Ministry of Culture's budget in an unhappy state, which, as if somehow, was hanging over those covido compensations, which, in fact, did not go to systemic problems or to solve the systemic problems of our resort, as well as the National Recovery Plan. I have identified, among other things, two important objectives in this area. The first is to stabilise the financing of my resort at a difficult time, and the second was to put the National Recovery Plan in place. To do this, I will add that the money for the National Recovery Plan is not automatic European money, as you and some of your colleagues try to say regularly. It is not simply that it was reserved money that would end up in Czech culture in quotation marks anyway. The Ministry of Culture and the entire resort of culture or the whole area of culture can draw on the money from the National Recovery Plan only if the conditions are prepared. And it took me and my team more than half a year before the desperate condition in which the preparation of the National Recovery Plan was actually taking place, and I stress this, not thanks to the officials of the Ministry of Culture, but to the wrong course of the previous political leadership of the Ministry, before we managed to move it, today money is being drawn and the challenges are being prepared for the next year, to which the 2 billion crowns are heading. That's why I consider this a success. It's not like we're automatically adding money to the increase we've got anyway, not at all. It was money that we would either get, or we wouldn't get, based on how prepared we were. I was very pleased that the government as a collective body, as Minister Stanjura said here at the beginning of the meeting, listened to my proposals on stabilizing the financing of culture at this difficult time. Hundreds of millions of crowns are added not only to salaries, but also to cover the energy costs of our contribution organizations. In addition, when you mention the lighting of the National Museum and others, I will just add that cultural institutions also belong to the energy price cap, i.e. electricity and gas, so that we will actually meet with synergies our compensation with this government measure. But we are aware that the time is still very difficult, and as everywhere else in the public sector, and not only in the public sector, elsewhere in the Czech Republic, austerity measures are being implemented, which simply cannot be resolved without this difficult time, which has not been triggered by the Government of the Czech Republic, which has provoked Putinův's aggression against Ukraine. I consider it completely false information that you mentioned here, about the subsidy programmes in the area of conservation. I didn't have to write part of the grant programs for this year. In spite of this difficult situation, grant programmes for municipalities, provided through municipalities with extended scope, are being opened up next year, as are some smaller subsidy programmes as an acquisition fund. The programme of professional theatres and professional symphony orchestras and choirs, excluding one covido year, is 400 million, which is the highest in terms of financial development for this programme. I will also mention that the funds for so-called cultural activities have also increased, i.e. subsidies to the field of culture directed towards organisations that are not founded by my ministry. Let me mention one more key thing. I also inherited in frozen form a system of film incentives, which actually ceased to work because it was not systemically solved, and both in the state budget amendment for this year and in the draft state budget and in the budget outlooks for the next years are already included funds that will allow the film incentives system to be reopened from 1 January and thus use the skills of Czech film professionals, whether it is in the professions of film, whether it is in post-production, whether it is in graphics, simply in everything we are good at. I really consider it essential to say this here because there is a lot of talk that culture is Cinderella, that it is on the brink of interest and so on. So I just want to stress that the government, which I am a member of, I stress, the government as a whole, has proposed to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss a budget which, evidently, in the individual figures that I have demonstrated here, considers culture to be a priority and comes to meet the needs of the Ministry of Culture and Culture itself at this extremely difficult time. And I will just add that yesterday I managed the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the European Union for culture, where the theme of the response of the cultural sphere to this difficult time appeared, and our measures, which means both the direct compensation and the ceiling of prices for cultural organisations, are not a matter of course even in the European context. And the fact that in the Czech Republic the ceiling of energy prices can also be used as a support tool for non-state cultural institutions, that is, I do not only think of myself but also others, is considered a big bonus in cross-cutting terms by all Member States of the European Union. So I just want to sum up in such a way that the measures that were then reflected in the draft state budget will no doubt now contribute to the stabilisation of the Ministry of Culture and allow the cultural sector not only to overcome this difficult time, but I believe that they will also serve as a good stepping stone for the next years in the case of the National Recovery Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u9	Mr Tureček is now on the list, followed by Mr Zlínský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to comment on chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, given the state of the funds proposed in the budget for 2023. I have tabled two amendments for this chapter, which are in the system under 1587 and 1588. It has led me to this situation, which, of course, concerns the current situation in the area of food and agriculture, and I do not particularly like the fact that the government saves where it does not, and that is in national subsidy titles, which aim in particular to improve the competitiveness of Czech agriculture and at the same time to contribute to a certain variety of species by supporting so-called sensitive commodities both in the field of plant production and animal production. In particular, I do not like - and in this respect I also underline the resolution of the agricultural committee, which is across the political spectrum, which means the votes of coalition and opposition Members, agreed that the funds in these national subsidy programmes are insufficient, especially in these subsidy programmes, namely support under programme 1D - support for beekeeping. I think that there has always been consensus on this, that beekeeping is a clear priority in this regard, and always, whatever governments they have been since 1993, they have found funds to support beekeeping. In this respect, I am just stressing that funds are being cut from around CZK 113 million to CZK 47 million, which means more than 50 per cent, and I think that the importance of beekeeping in this regard will certainly not be of any benefit both in terms of the landscape function and in terms of practically the competitiveness of our beekeepers towards foreign beekeepers, when it is a clear priority everywhere. Then, of course, it's the grant title 3 and 8 - the recovery of field and special crops and, of course, the so-called disease fund. It is a consensus that the disease situation in Europe is getting worse across and through migration, and I think that reducing funds in these funds by 50 per cent is very unreasonable. For one thing, this reduces the competitiveness of Czech agriculture again and, on the other hand, we are really asking for a problem in the future from the point of view of worsening the disease situation, and in this respect, I underline the fact that in the framework of the disease fund, we are also financing the recovery of diseases that are communicable from animals to humans, so that we do not cause ourselves - I know that this now sounds like a negligible problem for some, mainly government officials - but that we do not have another problem with the fact that we are really going to spread these diseases that are communicable from livestock to humans. Of course, it is support for non-production functions of fishing grounds and ponds in terms of water function and, last but not least, improvement in the living conditions of livestock farming. Next, I propose an increase in funds in chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture, and this is an increase in funds by 200 million for applied research. I think that every government boasts how it has the support of applied research at its heart, and even this government emphasizes it in its programming declaration, and, in turn, it deliberately violates this programming statement by not practically increasing the resources to this measure. And I think that this is unreasonable, because, of course, one way to strengthen our competitiveness in agriculture is to increase the productivity of livestock and, of course, to improve plant production by various processes, and in this respect, applied research is a significant part of these things from the point of view of innovation. So I think we're cutting back the grant funds where they shouldn't just be short. On the contrary, they should increase quite significantly there, and the government has committed itself to this in its programming declaration and does not do so. We are really looking for a reduction in the competitiveness of agriculture, a reduction in our food self-sufficiency. Due to insufficient resources in the disease funds, food safety will also deteriorate, and in this respect the Czech Republic will become much more and more dependent on imports. I would really like the great optimism of Petr Fiala's government to continue to import food space. He may not be, or he will be so limited, and of course we see it here that it has a very, very negative impact on the prices of food, which are mainly in our shops, in shops within the Czech Republic, enormously increasing, more than in fact in our neighbours. So that is why I proposed the two amendments in order to increase the budget expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I have also stressed to you what leads me to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vladimír Zlínský, Mr Josef Kott, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u12	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you've already learned the main topic of my communications over the past year, so I'm glad to be able to actually raise the topic of crisis situations that have not yet been mentioned here. I will try to defend why I propose the transfer of the financial amount of CZK 5 billion from the Departures to the budget of the European Union into the item Preparation for crisis situations and civilian protection of the population. Because, unlike other politicians, I think that in the event of a serious Europe-wide or global crisis, we will have to take care of ourselves as a state, the question of how we will treat the risk of possible crisis situations must be answered. The first option, like until recently, means we live in relative peace, we invest in a comfortable life of society, and when the trouble hits, someone will sort it out for us, and we'll sort it out somehow. So we will ignore future potential risks and be surprised by the emergence of problems that no one could expect from the rediscovery of all-knowing pseudo-professionals. According to Nassim Taleb's theory, it would be a classic black swan in this case, an event that could not be predicted in any way, which I think, considering past crisis situations, was not true. This corresponds to the confused and inadequate, often inadequate or over-shot reaction of the responsible authorities or persons, which leads to damage to the population or society due to unpreparedness and incompetence during decision-making under time pressure. Above all, we will expect someone to advise us on how to proceed and provide us with the necessary material equipment and support in all directions. In case we screw up something, we have to hammer out and not make a mistake so that we don't take personal responsibility for it. Therefore, there can be no feedback that will make it impossible to repeat the error next time. The future major problems of both the coming and the moderate crisis are more than certain. [[15.10 hours]] Second option. We identify possible risks and implement social measures without active involvement of the population. We live in relative comfort, we invest, apart from the comfortable life of society, an adequate part of the resources in identifying the most likely threats and in the means to solve them. When there is trouble, we will use this knowledge and means to ensure the basic life needs of our citizens for a certain critical time, i.e. food, drinking water, waste remediation, basic health care, basic energy supply, security of the necessary information, and especially security of the safety of our residents. However, citizens will not be sufficiently prepared and trained to respond to such a situation. This can lead to significant social and social shocks and problems. The third option I prefer is as variant two, but with the active involvement of our citizens in preparing for crisis situations after their instruction on how they should prepare themselves, including the education and teaching of the young generation. While we live in a less comfortable, moderate increase in stress and uncertainty, part of the means goes into identifying the most likely threats and the means to solve them. When the expected crisis occurs, our population adapts more quickly to the changed situation, through increased resilience, which is a foreign-sounding word, but means increased psychological resilience to our society. As I have said several times here, crisis situations are a common part of our history and history worldwide and are repeated. However, the danger is that they are repeated at different time intervals. The survival of previous societies and their inhabitants was often due to the way our ancestors were able to cope with these situations. The sign of decadent and degenerate societies was often the inability to perceive these dangers and thus to deal with them or adapt to them. The end of these societies in the past was usually neither good nor happy. Therefore, I call for our society and its elites to pay due attention to this subject without paranoid, disinformation, extremist and other labeling of those who draw attention to it. Recent and current crises can only be a foreplay of far more serious and dangerous events and situations facing either us or our direct descendants. I'm 100% convinced of that. From my point of view, these are the risks: energy poverty to blackout. A pandemic caused by genetically modified or natural agents. Dependence on the IT technology and technology of artificial intelligence that will lead, I called it, to uncontrollable complexity, which means that we will be dependent on a system that will be so complex that no one will understand it. Furthermore, it may be a nuclear war, as the present, religious, civil or other form of war in Europe in our immediate vicinity shows, which ultimately happens at present, the civil unrest, the economic or banking crisis, and finally the black swan that none of us can predict. That is why I am asking you, colleagues, to support my amendment to the state budget, in favour of implementing the third version of my preparation for crisis situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here Mr Novák's application for a factual remark - yes, I am erasing you. Mr Josef Kott will now appear, Mr Radek Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to follow up on the performance of my colleagues, Mr Tureček and Mr Pražák, on the increase in the budget relating to the union activity. As the gentlemen mentioned here about the gunfighter, which concerns the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity, as well as the beekeeper-related beekeepers, these are indeed two organisations that will be significantly affected by the cutting of funds into their activities. And I am convinced that even if the minimum financial amount in the state budget is around CZK 12 million, it can, in its essence, significantly jeopardise the activities of these associations. The moment we look at it through the optics, that union activity essentially, that those people at the lower levels are doing it free of charge in their free time. We all want to have, as has been said here, a varied landscape. This means that we may not be well enough to imagine that there will be a degradation of the landscape if animals are not reduced, or that the activity of beekeepers is somehow reduced. Of course, associations as such have both control and research activities in their portfolio. And what I believe is the most important thing, whether it concerns fishermen, hunters or beekeepers, is the irreplaceable work with young people, with upbringing to the countryside. And basically, all the things that are connected with some educational activity, these unions are taking on this responsibility, and I think they're doing pretty well with it. For this reason, I would like to ask you to support my amendment, which is conducted as House document 1631, because I say again, I believe that the 12 million crowns I am trying to raise there, so it is nothing that we cannot afford within - albeit perhaps tense - the budget. I would also like to ask here for the support of the amendment, which is conducted as 1638. It was entered into the system by my colleague Černý and it is really only - I say again only - about the promotion of beekeeping. This is the sum of CZK 50 million and it is the amount mentioned here by colleague Karel Tureček, with the fact that this was actually taken away from the activity. And given the way I spoke here at second reading, the bees that are now preparing for wintering are in very bad shape, and no one can imagine how it will be spring, so again I think that this amount could help our beekeepers. Thank you for your attention and please support the aforementioned House documents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radek Vondráček, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly do not want to speak with a long speech. I think I could fit into a factual point, but I wanted to comply with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to draw your attention to my Amendment 1622, a House document in which I propose an amendment to the State Budget Act. I don't want to make this an issue of opposition versus coalition, I don't want to make it a political issue, because it essentially concerns another pillar of power, it concerns judicial power and it concerns the remuneration of justice workers. On this subject, we had a debate with the Minister of Finance during the second reading of the budget amendment 2022, we asked the Deputy Minister of Justice on our constitutional law committee, and in the end we agreed that, although the tariffs were increased by 10 per cent in October, it was not covered by the budget. Then there was a meeting between the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance and the representatives of the Supreme Courts, and resources were provided, according to my information covering 47 percent of the expenditure, that is to say 53 percent of those courts have to take from their own resources, which would otherwise be intended for personal remuneration, and so that in the end what the Minister of Finance has assured me is not going to happen here, namely that the under-averages will help themselves and the above-averages will have 5% less on the rewards and the averages will remain on their own. The government declared in its negotiations with the supreme representatives of the judiciary and the Ministry of Justice that it would match the average salaries of the Court's staff in the next three years to the average salaries of the public administration staff. The difference between these values is currently approximately CZK 7 000 per employee per month. Therefore, if the government wants to keep that promise evenly, it should increase the salaries of the Court's staff by around 6.5 percent each year. In negotiations with the representatives of the judiciary, the government neglected to include administrative officials of the state prosecutors in the plan to settle salaries. We met here at the state budget amendment 2022 the day before the press conference of representatives of justice, where they pointed out the impending collapse of justice, the personnel problems with the occupation of positions, such as the writer, because it is not easy, on the one hand, to succeed in the labour market for the justice authorities, because they are not competitive with other authorities of the government, and it is not easy to get a good worker, to train him in some way and prepare him for his professional work, in short, today's financial resources are not working out. I therefore propose that the budget chapter of the Ministry of Justice be increased by CZK 416 919 270 within the framework of the State Budget for 2023, which corresponds to an increase of more than 11 000 members of the Courts and a public prosecutor's office of 6.5 %. The amount includes legal contributions, including contributions to the FKSP. I've been trying to explain here that the bomb is actually ticking, and I've fair and squarely admitted that it's a problem for the last 20 years, it's also a problem for the YES movement that had that resort for eight years, but that's why the countdown ended, and that's why the press conferences came up, and we're drawing attention to it more or less, or we're drawing attention to it all the time within the community, before the bomb actually explodes. I would like to ask the Coalition Members, the Coalition Ministers, and I have them both here, which concern whether they would actually consider my amendment, because this increase is really necessary, necessary, cannot be avoided, and I think it would be fairer to change this chapter than by some budgetary measures. Thank you for giving me a positive answer to my request for the benefit of the justice staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It is now registered, as the last one for now, by Mr Patrik Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u18	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I deliberately let myself fail in the end, that it would be better if several ministers listened to me. Unfortunately, even though I am the last and will be close to the vote, there are three ministers only, I even met the Minister of Agriculture after a long time and I (in) made sure that it was him three times. So much for a comment. Unfortunately, that's true, and I remind you that you criticized it when you were in opposition. There's only a full attendance of ministers here when the votes are in the standings, which isn't Senate vomit right now, so only in the presidential veto. So much for one little point, and I stand by it because the state budget negotiations are the most important law of the year, and I'm the last one signed up, and in a few minutes we're gonna vote, okay? So let's just talk about the context of the situation. Now let me make two comments, one general and one amendment. The general point is that I have to apologize to the Minister of Finance, but I'm a little disappointed both from that part of the revenue and part of the expenditure, because in both of you you didn't fulfill what you always criticized when you were in opposition. In the revenue part, you're essentially counting - and so from the beginning you counted to be more precise - with revenue for which you have to change some other laws. We had two things like that here, that's a windfall tax, and that's a levy on excessive income. That it's done, it's nice, but the numbers change over time. So that means that basically you predict the income, I would say, by looking at the coffee grounds, yes, because I don't know what other way, because one time we were having fun here - and you know I was talking about it - that from one tax it's going to be 85 billion, from the other 15, and eventually it ends up 40 and 85, so you're probably going to pick more, but the numbers are changing. That means you would, if you were in opposition, and the Minister of Finance would certainly take advantage of it and say that you're preparing the state budget here, some revenue part, but basically you estimate it, the revenue. I'd have other things to do, but I don't want to delay, we're already here at 3:30, he's been here long enough, he needs to come to a conclusion, and we're going to vote anyway, you're saying it. On the expense page, I'm disappointed that every time you were in opposition, you were saying how the government is growing and you crossed it out. So I'd like to ask you where you crossed it out, because so far I see only an increase in the number of employees in the public sector. The increase, that means where it is, I just want to see - it's not an attack, it's a legitimate question of the opposition, where it's fulfilling your opposition rhetoric, that you cross it out, that you cut the number of civil servants, you cut the number of people who are being paid out of public money, and I don't see that there, don't be mad at me, I don't see that there. That means I miss the trend you promised me, and it's not there, which means I'm disappointed in the expense page, too. And the third thing, and this already concerns the specific amendments. I heard some coalition MP on the radio today, now I don't know if it was the finance minister directly, so you wouldn't catch my word, I don't know, but somebody said there wasn't gonna be a single opposition proposal - that was probably a colleague of Honza Skopeček, I don't know if it was a colleague of Jakob, I don't know, it's possible - that neither of them would pass. This is another thing I wanted to tell you: you have always blamed the previous governments for not looking at the content, but who is giving the amendments. Now you are in the government and not a single amendment will pass according to the media statements. So I remember that there has been an amendment here in the past, I think it is Madam Vice-President Kovářová, when you were in opposition, but again I say, don't take my word for it, I'm only here for the second term, but I'm sorry because you criticized it, and now you're in the same, similar or I would say pretty crushing mode. [[15.30 hours]] And here I am reminding you, I have two amendments where one of them directs directly to the content of something that we are living now, it is an energy crisis, that is, rising energy prices, changes in fixations, changes in tariffs, an increase in the number of complaints against the Energy Regulatory Authority, who himself said in his report that he was registering three times the number of complaints that he had to process in some way. The new levy will therefore be re-executed as well. And I propose in Amendment 1554, to add 14 million crowns, which, let's say, is a drop in the sea in the entire state budget. I am quite interested in how coalition MEPs will stand up to this, if at least this amendment is approved, because it is not on purpose from the opposition, it is a reaction to the current situation and that we all politicians who are in the media, always those people, we send consumers to the Energy Regulatory Authority: Go there, they will stand you up, they will check it out, or give you a complaint when you feel that an intermediary or supplier has charged you some price that he was not entitled to. And that's logically happening more often than ever before, so that's a logical suggestion for me. The last point concerns what the rapporteur said, which I do not see - he sits there, thank you - about the voting process. [[Mined in his desk.]] Here are two identical amendments, which follows up on what I have just said: there is some amendment by my colleagues concerning the increase of funds for regional education, and then there is another identical proposal. And I'm wondering why they don't vote logically in the order of how they were uploaded into the system. That one was uploaded a week earlier, number 1499, the other one's 1610 a week later, as it goes. I'm just wondering if there's any explanation why he won't follow the order. It's the principle that you can give regional education 1,100 million, and I don't think it matters at the time who designed it. Or are we going to play that when he proposed opposition, we're not going to vote in favour of it, and then we're essentially going to vote in favour of the same thing? In order to avoid this particular situation, there will be a direct vote on the proposal by the Coalition Member or the Coalition Members who later proposed it. Colleagues, please, try to empathize, you've been in opposition here, you'd criticize it, too. I do not know whether it is for all opposition proposals to be outvoted, even those you actually copy. Thank you for your attention, I've reduced it to maximum, it could have been much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Volný is now registered. Please... Oh, I'm sorry. Mr. Ambassador, wait a minute, Mr. Výborný is on the verdict. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I apologize to my colleague, Volný, through you. It is factual because I really want to respond to my colleague Patrik Nacher, through Madam President. I actually like him, and I believe he will understand my point, but I would ask him very much to keep the stupid remarks to the Minister of Agriculture, because at least - not at least, but twice a year he has already voted on the trust of this government, which is responsible for the entire House, and it is sad that he does not know the members of this government as an MP. That's really sad. Perhaps it would be worth it if he left his office in the restaurant facility here in the Chamber of Deputies, where he moved, and stayed more often here in the hall, and then knew who was a member of this government. I have to say, of course, that he's taking up a place there for those who want to freshen up, which is too bad, so maybe if he has a place here in the House, that's better. And one substantive point about the amendment, and I say this in general to all the criticisms: it is the sovereign right of the rapporteur to propose a voting procedure. I believe that this proposal, which is really identical and will support the teaching assistants, will be accompanied by a colleague named Nacher and the entire opposition, and it will be just as well and we will actually vote on the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u21	Thank you, Mr President, and now Minister Stanjura is on the verdict. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u22	For Mr Nacher, by your means: I am at the Ministry of Finance for less than 12 months, I have reduced the number of official posts in the department so far - and I underline the word so far - by 925. I don't think that's a bad result. I'm talking about official offices at the Treasury Department, 925 minus in less than a year, but I'm sure I'm not done with it yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u23	Thank you. Another factual point is Mr Nacher's factual point. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u24	Thank you. I will respond to a colleague of the Výborný, by your means. I'm sorry he gave up my place, where I'm in control of the entire Chamber of Deputies, so I can always be here on time and get there. [[Laughs in the hall.]] The comment was, I confess, it was a bit ironic, because, and I said it, you must say, colleague, the context that we are discussing the most important law of the year, which is the state budget, I was the last in line, so at least at that moment, when all along I expected more members of the government to be here, not just the finance minister and two others, and on that occasion I acknowledged that I had seen the Minister of Agriculture after a long time, whom I would of course recognize. But he's so thin here that the moment he grows a beard, you might get him wrong. As far as the amendment is concerned, don't be angry with me, I think we can agree that there is a need to give resources for an assistant teacher. The problem is that the opposition proposal was the first one in the system, and it would be really fair, and after the fairness, you are calling here to vote in the order that it was recorded there, and not that there will in principle be a copy of the amendment, it will be submitted by someone else, and it will be put to the vote first, so that there is no interesting situation where you would not support, in principle, an identical proposal to support your proposal. I mean, that's the point, that's the point, don't be mad at me. Because then what you criticized when you were in opposition was, to some extent, hypocritical when you were reacting in this way. And of course, the rapporteur may propose any procedure, we may not vote in favour, but then unfortunately there will be no vote in the proposal that was the first in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. The Minister Jurečka is now registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u26	I have to respond to some of the things that have been said here because I feel that perhaps Mr Nacher wanted to say that he is terribly upset and sorry that the head of his ANO movement is not in the House today, when the most important law of the year is being discussed in the third reading, the state budget, and that he is on a pump that is not his, bakes a Christmas there and puts it as a social network, as he has already made dough, as he has now knitted it, and already has it in the oven. I don't know if it seems completely normal to you, if all the other people who are in their standard jobs, like Agrofert Group employees, at their work hours, when they're getting paid, they're at home, they're putting pictures on Facebook, they're baking Christmas on Christmas. It's a total mockery of these people. We're in a situation where this government has just been sitting, we've got the Presidency running into it, there's a lot of events going on that ministers have to coordinate with them, so don't blame the minister for not being here at this moment in the House, because if you look back at the minister's Facebook profile or Twitter, you can see that today he had another event that he was running and moderated. So look at your boss, your movement, who bakes Christmas and bakes at the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u27	Thank you, Minister. The Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u28	I may surprise you, but I want to stand up for Andrej Babiš. He said that every time Mrs. Schillerová texted him that the law was important, he would come. She probably didn't text him today, so I understand. Then don't say it's the law of the year if you don't even tell the poor Prime Minister that today is the law of the year. He then bakes instead of voting here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u29	Thank you. With another point of fact, President Marek is signed in Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u30	Thanks for the word. I will return to my colleague Nacher in a matter of fact and a comment on the amendment. The important difference was that we filed the amendment at a time when it was agreed by both the Gesture Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance, whereas yours was simply submitted without any agreement, so that is the difference in substance only why it is voted backwards. I hope we understand. If we don't understand each other, we'll vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Berenika Peštová is registered. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u32	I'd like to respond to Minister Jurečka. Well, it's a good thing you're watching pan Babiš's facebook - if it wasn't for Mr. Babiš, you might have to make it up. But in any case, this whole day has been talking about the budget. Whoever wanted sat here, who didn't want to, didn't sit here. There were two or three ministers here, tops. There weren't any more. So if you're saying it's such an important law, then why wasn't the entire government sitting here? And I don't give a damn if they had another job or if they didn't have another job. The important law was being discussed for them today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u33	Thank you, Madame. Mr Robert králíček will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u34	Madam Vice-President, well, I will not respond to Mr Stanjura's poor arrogance. I'll respond to Mr. Jurečka. Laughing at people is your job at MPSV, and Mr. Babiš will meet more voters in a month than you have in your entire career.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Patrik Nacher will now take the stand. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u36	Well, I have a case against Minister Jurečka. I think he's always taking advantage of his position. He once spoke as a minister, and now he basically spoke as an opposition MP a while ago. I understood his criticism when he was in opposition that there were no ministers or prime ministers, so I understood. The situation is different now. You're ministers, and even though you're in that position, you're supposed to be here. You're supposed to be here! The fact that you have other actions, that's your business. That's your business, your decision. And you, who have always criticized us for having two, three of the 17 people sitting here in an important law, so I took the liberty of making that remark because I was the last in line to expect that when I am the last and close to voting, I expect those ministers to arrive at least at the last minute. That's how you can see that I hit the black one because you're bothered by this. And you will appeal again to the presence or absence of Andrej Babiš, who is already an ordinary MP, as you like to say yourself, a member of the opposition and is duly excused, as other members of the family are duly excused. And you're not in opposition anymore. You're the minister, so please make sure you're here when the state budget is here, at least ten minutes before the vote. And don't appeal to anyone that there's no opposition, because this doesn't end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Jiří Mašek is signed up with another de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u38	Madam President, Prime Minister, and most importantly Minister Stanjur, I would like to ask you and respond to you for saying that you have actually disposed of 900 officials or jobs in your department. I found that the Ministry of Finance had 1,433 jobs and jobs at the end of last year, of which 106 seats were vacant and 18 were not able to occupy in the long term. So I wanted to ask you about the song. I suppose you're including the financial authorities in the Republic and maybe some others, I don't know your hierarchy, of course, but I'm interested in the composition of these people. If that's the scratch marks, I get it. If it's retirement, I get it. And if these are the above-standard retirements that Minister Jurečka arranged for a number of citizens by promoting early pensions and their advantages, I understand that too. So I'd like an answer to that bravery in reducing your ministry's staff. Thank you. [[Minister Stanjura from a place off the microphone: Place, not workers.]] Excuse me, seats.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u39	Thank you, Minister Marian Jurečka is signed up with another de facto. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u40	I think it is, of course, the responsibility of each Member to assess when a vote is really important during the year, for which it is absolutely necessary to be. And I was here pointing out that once every 13 years, there is a situation where this country is chairing the European Union, and it simply requires that the minister is at the moment, perhaps another action that, for example, agreed on a term of three quarters a year ago, and he will do nothing about it so that today, when there is a third reading of the State Budget Act, he switched and he was here. But I'll take one comment. Like, what's more important than having an MP at a third reading in the House? And Mr President of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš - and I really don't need to make it up if he wasn't here, I would certainly be more satisfied and a large part of this country too - but he said, at today's apology that was read here, apologizing for why Andrej Babiš, as a Member at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, is not working grounds. Like baking a Christmas is a job, I understand that, but to apologize to a Member for going to bake a Christmas, and he's gonna write work reasons here, so that's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u41	Thank you. Mr Marek will now speak with a factual remark Výborný and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u42	I would perhaps just like to remind you that we have the centre and the interpellation of the ministers of the government, so the questions that have just begun to be heard here do not belong on Wednesday, but on Thursday, so tomorrow at 14:00 you have the opportunity to ask all the ministers of this government. But let us now address this point and debate before - as the Rules of Procedure say - the debate before the third reading of the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u43	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to comment on the speech by the Minister of Finance on the number of people at the Ministry of Finance... [[Minister Stanjura from outside the microphone: In the finance department!]] ... the Ministry of Finance, it is not written when you go to the Ministry, and please, Minister, yesterday, when you have told me in your factual case that my resolution on the Officials Act was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Skopečka, for letting him vote on it. And at the same time, when you spoke, you opened the debate, so I should have had a word. That's secondary. When I'm talking, please, when I'm talking, I'm talking. I know you're a minister, I honor you, but please let the speakers speak here at the speaker's desk. Okay, here's the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u45	I'm sorry, madam. I'll make up for your time. I will just ask my fellow Members, including the Ministers, not to shout to Members and Members. And I'll just fill in the explanation. It was not possible to open the debate because the debate was closed, the vote began, or it was not possible to open the debate, even if the Minister had spoken. So much for procedural questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u46	Well, let the Minister of Finance read the resolution and tell me what was not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now, on to what the government will be discussing today - today it will approve a new change in systemization for next year. Now let's talk numbers and facts about the Treasury. As of January 1, 2022, the Ministry of Finance had 1,438 seats of officials. On January 1, 2023, he expects to have 1,452, which means more places than in 2022. Yes, if we look at the fact that the Ministry of Finance has a number of offices under it, the Financial Authority, the Financial Administration and so on, there will be a reduction in the number. But let's face it, where do we raise the seats? We're raising to ministries. And those places that are closest to people, that means financial authorities, hygiene, county social security, that's where we're going to lower the places. Congratulations! This is exactly where yesterday's approval of the Service Act appears, because 85 seats will be increased in ministries from January 1, 2023. Maybe it'll be 85 political deputies, we'll see about that. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u47	Thank you, Madame. Mr Robert králíček will now speak with a factual remark and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u48	I'll take a short look at Minister Jurečka. That excuse of yours is quite up to, I'd say, mud bases. I mean, you guys are running things here. You set your appointments, you shorten your deadlines for one day, you take our amendments, you overrule everything. Then don't tell me you couldn't have timed it so your ministers could. You're in charge here. You are no longer opposed, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u49	Thank you. Mr Radek Vondráček will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u50	She's already moved on with the debate. I just wanted to respond to a colleague of the Výborný, who refers us to interpelation, if he doesn't want to bet me how many ministers will be here tomorrow, if there are more than four of them at least. [[Laughter from the opposition benches.]] It's not usually. So then the reference to the interpelation is rather empty, because we want to take advantage of the fact that we have these ministers here for a while sometime. And the addition to the Vice-President. He even spoke after the debate, but I agree with the interpretation that he could not open the debate. Mr Stanjura even spoke, but he did not open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u51	Yes, but it was already after the vote, so it was not possible to open the debate. That was the last point in fact and now duly signed up for the debate by Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u52	Madam President, thank you very much. I am more of a memorial than my honored colleague Patrik Nacher, so I know that Mr Babiš himself, as Minister of Finance, has now agreed for Madam President and that the coalition has then voted for a couple and not such small amendments. Well, that's just for drawing. Then I'd... Mr. Stanjura isn't running away from me, I hope... [[Minister Stanjura is speaking with the Member at the door.]] Unlike Mr Nacher, I have seen the Minister on the agricultural committee several times, so I would like to ask him to listen and, if necessary, instruct his colleagues before the vote. And I ask him to support two amendments. A colleague, the Minister of Finance, is he listening? He's not listening. [[Minister Stanjura left the O.R., but after a while he came back.]] Okay, the minister has left. Listen, please, everyone else, because it's definitely not a wild appeal and my idle cry. Right, I should be weeping for Mr Karel Tureček's amendment, which also asks for money for beekeepers, but in an amendment that generally embraces national subsidies, and it is 2 billion. I think it's completely, completely impassable for you to vote. But please, Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Finance, try to take another look at Amendment 53 by Mr Černý and Amendment 49 by Mr Kott. One is for 100 million and the other is for 12 million, and there are 50 and 12 million beekeeper subsidies. Colleagues, let's have some sense. We give billions, billions of athletes to our little kids to play sports, it's okay. We give hundreds of millions of cultures to make people live culturally. We're giving $100 million to support the film fund, and it's okay. And we don't really give 50 million beekeepers who make sure the trees are pollinated, so that little children can find a way to beekeepers to beekeepers? I mean, we're committing a total crime here - not against humanity, but against nature by making absolutely senseless and incomprehensiblely for me we want to cut 50 percent of the grant title for beekeepers. And it's $50 million, colleagues. Take another look at Mr Černý 53's amendment and Mr Kott 49's amendment. It would be a small concession, it would be a small drop of you ruling the hundred and eights and a helpful step towards us, opposition, but try to think about it, because the beekeepers are definitely worth it. And let our apiculture survive the year 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the debate. And I'm asking if there's an interest in final words? Mr. Secretary? He's not interested. The rapporteur? Not either. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, we will vote on the proposed voting procedure on this bill. I've noticed an interest in the check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. At the same time, I would like to ask the rapporteur to repeat the proposed procedure to us. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll be very brief on the points. I'll repeat the procedure. First, we will vote on the amendment in Annex 1, which is Mr Bartoš's proposal. Furthermore, we will continue with the amendment in Annex 2 and we would be the first to vote on the amendment under order number 52. Again, this is identical to Amendment 31, so it is not possible to vote on two of these amendments, we must choose only one. Following his vote, it is not possible to vote on Amendment 31. Subsequently, we will vote on all other amendments in Annex 2, in accordance with that order, which is 62 amendments. When we deal with all these proposals, we will vote on the bill as a whole, and we will vote on the accompanying resolutions individually. This is my draft procedure, I presume the counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u55	Thank you, rapporteur. I see President Schillerová, who has a different proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would have had a counterproposal because I don't agree with it - it's already been discussed here today. We have two perfectly identical amendments here. It is an amendment under order number 31, Chapter 333, which is not relevant, the Member for the ANO movement, Mrs Berkovcová and Mrs Balaštíková, where they want to increase in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, namely in the specific indicator of the expenditure of regional education and directly managed organisations, by an amount of 1 100 million, to provide staff to teachers' assistants. It's taken from the General Treasury, the government's budget reserves. The same amendment under order number 52 was tabled by Members, I do not have to repeat, it is exactly the same, 52, it was submitted by Members Marek Výborný, Mrs Zajíčková, Berki, Klíma, Bartoš. The difference is that Amendment 31 to the members of the ANO movement has been tabled, and this is, of course, verifiable in the House of Deputies system, 1. 11:00 p.m., 9:00 p.m., 1:00 p.m. 11. The amendment under number 52 of the Coalition Members was tabled 15. 11:00 p.m., 3:00 p.m. That's the only difference you'll find, I'm afraid. [[16.00 hours]] Although the Committee on Budgets was in the meantime, there was no vote on this amendment by the members of the ANO movement, for some technical reasons at the time, I am no longer able to specify it, and I just think... I read the opinion of the legislation I received this morning, thank you for it. I have basically read that there are identical amendments, that this has to be resolved by a vote, and that the other one that will be voted on is, of course, unvoteable. We understand that. However, I personally think that - I wondered if such a situation was ever here, was not there, I did not get a memorial, nor did our secretary, who has been here for over thirty years, remembers it, the secretary of our club - so it was not, but logic commands me: if we have two identical amendments, both of these amendments want the same thing, they want to help improve the employment conditions of the teachers' assistants and one was filed two weeks before the other, so I just think it should be voted in the order that they were submitted in the House system. That's common sense, and it's not politics. We all want the same thing. So I propose that I have a counter-proposal to vote first on the amendment under order number 31 by Mrs Berkovcová and Mrs Balaštíková, and then, if necessary, on the amendment under number 52, if of course... [[Objection from the rapporteur, Bernard.]] You can't do that anymore? About 31? Okay, copy that. So just to vote first on the amendment under order number 31 by Mrs Balaštíková and Mrs Berkovcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Let me just get this straight. We would vote on the first one on the amendment of Minister Bartoš first, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u58	No. We have to vote for the procedure, and there was an alternative motion to vote for the procedure, as I suggested. I think we should vote now on President Schillerová's proposal for a procedure and then on my original draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u59	Yes, that's right. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. First, we will vote on the counter-proposal of President Schillerová, first voting on Amendment 31, then possibly on Amendment 52. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u60	No, there will be only one vote. We cannot vote on two by the legislative department. That means we have to choose. Either we vote thirty-one, or fifty-two. I propose that we vote fifty-two, and President Schillerová proposes thirty-one. So this is how President Schillerová's proposal is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u61	Yes, we therefore vote that Amendment 31 will be the first to vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 66, 170 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, versus 55. The motion was denied. So now we're going to vote on... [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] To design the procedure yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u62	No. I want to comment on the vote, if I may. Thank you for your kindness, Madam Vice-President. So we didn't win common sense, we didn't win some rule that somebody was first, politics won, we're talking politics, and we won, maybe we'll call it true words, plagiarism won! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u63	We will now vote on the draft procedure, as the rapporteur has put it. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 67, Membership 172, in favour of 122, versus 5. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the amendments in accordance with the approved procedure. I ask the rapporteur to present various amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u64	Thanks again for the word. I just want to say that the Committee on Budgets has no opinions, which means that only the Minister of Finance will read the opinions. And let me make one more comment. You have Annex 2, so let me not read the long texts. I will always refer to the order number, the numbers of the chapters concerned, and I will read the Members who propose the amendment in question in order to speed up the procedure. So now, Madam President, we will vote on Mr Bartoš's amendment to the text section of the bill on the State Budget. In Annex 1, the proposal amends the new Chapter 364, the Digital and Information Agency. This is Annex No. 1 to the Parliament's Press 315/3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u65	Thank you. Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 172 Members and Members voted in favour of 95, against 75. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u66	We will now proceed as shown in Annex 2, with the amendment being tabled under number 52. It is a proposal from the Výborný Group of Members, Zajíčková, Berki, Klíma and Bartoš and concerns chapters 333 and 398.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u67	[[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 69, 172 Members and Members, in favour of 171, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u68	We continue with the amendment under order number 1. It concerns Chapters 362 and 398. They present Members Richter, Babiš, Babka, Kubíček, Bžoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u69	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 172 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, against 92. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u70	Amendment 2. It concerns Chapters 362 and 362 on both sides, Members Richter, Babiš, Babka, Kubíček, Bžoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u71	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 71, 172 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, against 91. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u72	Amendment 3 concerns Chapters 327 and 396. Suggestor: Mr Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u73	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 172 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, against 94. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u74	Proposal No 4, concerns Chapters 329 and 398. They present Members and Members Kovářová, Decroix, Smetana, Jakob, Richterová, Krutáková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u75	[[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 172 Members and Members, in favour of 171, against none. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u76	Proposal 5, relating to Chapters 333 and 398. They present Members of Parliament Kovářová, Zajíčková, Šimek, Jakob, Kocmanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u77	[[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 172 Members and Members, in favour of 169, against none. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u78	Proposal 6, relating to Chapters 329 and 398. It is presented by Members of Tureček Republic, Faltýnek, Kott, Pražák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u79	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 172 Members and Members voted in favour of 77, versus 90. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u80	Proposal No 7, concerns Chapters 329 and 398. They present Members of Tureček, Faltýnek, Kott, Pražák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u81	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 173 Members of Parliament signed up for 78, against 94. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u82	Proposal No 8, refers to Chapter 317 on both sides. She presented Mrs Pošarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u83	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 173 Members and Members signed up, for 21, against 91. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u84	Proposition number nine. It concerns Chapter 322. She presented Mrs Pošarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u85	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 173 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 18, against 143. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u86	Proposal 10 concerns Chapters 335 and 396. She presented Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u87	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 173 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 21, against 143. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u88	Proposal 11, relating to Chapters 334 and 306. She presented Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u89	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 173 Members and Members signed in for 19, versus 144. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u90	Proposal 12 concerns Chapters 301 and 398. It was presented by Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u91	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 173 Members and Members signed in for 19, versus 141. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u92	Proposal No 13 concerns Chapters 315 and 322. It presents Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u93	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 82, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 18, against 140. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u94	Proposal No 14, concerns Chapter 398. Mr Hrnčíř presented.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u95	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 83, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 18, against 148. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u96	Proposition number 15. It concerns Chapter 398. Mr. Zlínský suggests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u97	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 84, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 18, against 149. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u98	Proposal 16, relates to Chapters 333 and 398. He presented a Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u99	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 85, 173 Members and Members signed in for 78, against 91. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u100	Proposal 17 refers to Chapters 333 and 398. He presented a Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u101	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 86, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 77, versus 87. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u102	Proposal number 18, concerns Chapter 333. They presented Members of Sládeček and Hrnčíř.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u103	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 87, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 18, against 91. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u104	The 19th draft relates to chapters 333 and 398, submitted by Members Rais and Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u105	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 88, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 77, versus 88. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u106	Proposal No 20, concerning Chapter 306, submitted by Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u107	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 89, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 18, against 141. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u108	Proposal No 21, relating to Chapters 398 and 306, submitted by Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u109	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 90, 173 Members and Members signed up, for 19, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u110	Proposal No 22, concerning Chapter 398, shall be submitted by Mr Kobza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u111	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 91, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 18, against 141. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u112	Proposal No 23, concerning Chapter 334, was submitted by Mrs Jermanová, Member of the Brož and Mr Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u113	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 92, 173 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 76, against 91. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u114	Proposal number 24, concerning chapters 334 and 398, was submitted by Mrs Jermanová Pokorná and Members Brož and Mr Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u115	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 173 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 78, against 92. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u116	Proposal number 25, relating to Chapter 334, again submitted by Members Jermanová Pokorná, Brož, Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u117	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 79, against 92. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u118	Proposal number 26, relating to chapters 334 and 398, again submitted by MEPs Jermanová Pokorná, Brož, Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u119	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 95, 173 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 78, against 92. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u120	Proposal number 27, concerns Chapter 334. Again the same group of Members - Jermanová Pokorná, Brož, Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u121	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 96, 173 Members and Members signed in for 78, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u122	Proposal No 28, relating to Chapter 328, shall be submitted by Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u123	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 97, 173 Members and Members signed in, for 77, against 90. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u124	Proposal 29 concerns Chapters 349 and 398, submitted by Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u125	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 173 Members and Members voted in favour of 77, versus 90. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u126	Proposal No 30, concerning Chapters 333 and 398, was submitted by Mrs Berkovcová and Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u127	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 99, 173 Members and Members signed in, for 78, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u128	Proposal No 32, relating to Chapter 398, shall be submitted by Mr Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u129	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 100, 172 Members of Parliament signed in, for 77, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u130	Draft No 33, concerning Chapter 398, Members of Munzar, Výborný, Jakob, Bernard, Michálek, Žáček, Janda shall present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u131	[[- Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 101, 173 Members and Members signed in for 116, v. 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u132	Proposal No 34, relating to Chapters 333 and 321, submitted by Mr Novák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u133	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 174 Members of Parliament signed up, for 75, against 92. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u134	Proposal No 35, relating to Chapters 333 and 396, once again to Mr Novák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u135	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 103, 174 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 78, against 90. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u136	Proposal No 36, concerns chapters 328 and 322, once again Mr Novák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u137	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 104, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 56, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u138	Proposal No 37, concerning chapters 333 and 398, Members of Parliament and Members Zajíčková, Výborný, Berki, Klíma and Michálek shall submit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u139	[[- Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 105, 175 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 168, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u140	Proposal No 38, relating to Chapters 315 and 398, shall be submitted by Mr Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u141	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 106, 175 Members and Members signed in for 79, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u142	Proposal No 39, relating to Chapters 315 and 398, shall be submitted by Mr Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u143	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 107, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 79, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u144	Proposal No 40, relating to Chapters 335 and 398, was submitted by Mrs Štefanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u145	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 108, 175 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u146	Proposal No 41, concerning chapters 335 and 398, again Mrs Štefanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u147	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 175 Members and Members signed in for 79, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u148	Proposal No 42, relating to Chapters 336 and 398, shall be submitted by Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u149	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 110, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 77, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u150	Proposal 43 concerns Chapter 313, by Mrs Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u151	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 111, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 22, against 92. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u152	Proposal No 44, concerning Chapters 313 and 322, presents Mrs Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u153	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 112, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 21, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u154	Proposition number 45, concerning Chapters 313 and 398, Mrs Šafránková again submits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u155	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 113, 175 Members and Members signed in for 21, versus 144. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u156	Proposal No 46, concerning Chapter 313, is submitted by Mrs Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u157	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 114, 175 Members and Members voted in favour of 21, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u158	Proposal No 47, concerning Chapters 313 and 322, is submitted by Mrs Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u159	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 115, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 21, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u160	Proposal No 48, relating to Chapters 317 and 398, is submitted by Mrs Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u161	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 116, 175 Members and Members signed in for 78, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u162	Proposal No 49, relating to Chapters 329 and 398, Members Kott, Pražák, Tureček submit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u163	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 117, 175 Members and Members registered, for 79, against 90. The motion was denied. Colleagues and colleagues, please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u164	Proposal number 50, relating to Chapter 314, proposed by Mr Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u165	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 118, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 22, against 96. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u166	Proposal number 51, concerning Chapter 362, proposes a group of Haas, Janda, Šimek, Lacina, Klíma, Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u167	[[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 119, 175 Members and Members signed in for 149, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u168	Proposal No 53, relating to Chapters 329 and 306, submitted by Mr Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u169	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 120, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 63, against 92. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u170	Draft number 54, concerns chapters 329 and 306, once again the petitioner of Mr Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u171	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 121, 175 Members and Members signed in for 78, versus 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u172	The draft number 55, concerning chapters 334 and 398, is proposed by Members Hendrych, Vondrák, Brož.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u173	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 122, 175 Members and Members of Parliament, for 59, against 91, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u174	Proposal No 56, concerning chapters 314 and 398, presents a group of Members and Members Mračková Vildumetzová, Mašek, Ryba, Lang, Brázdil, králíček, Sadovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u175	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 123, 175 Members and Members signed in for 78, against 92. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u176	Proposal 57, concerning chapters 314 and 398, again a group of Members Mračková Vildumetzová, Mašek, Ryba, Lang, Brázdil, králíček, Sadovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u177	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 124, 175 Members and Members signed in for 79, against 93. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u178	Proposal 58, relating to Chapters 336 and 398, is submitted by Mrs Lesenská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u179	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 125, 175 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 19, versus 148. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u180	Proposal No 59, relating to Chapters 327 and 398, shall be submitted by Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u181	[[- Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 126, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 78, against 95. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u182	Proposal number 60, concerns Chapters 327 and 398, the petitioner of Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u183	[[- Disagree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 127, 175 Members of Parliament signed up, for 77, against 94. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u184	Proposal 61, relating to Chapters 334 and 398, shall be submitted by Mr Havránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u185	[[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 128, 175 Members and Members signed in for 152, versus 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u186	Proposal number 62, relating to Chapters 334 and 398, presents a group of Members of Havránek, Haas, Bláha, Krejza, Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u187	[[- Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 129, 175 Members and Members signed in, for 155, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u188	Now, Madam President, we have voted on all the amendments and now we need to vote on the bill as a whole. I would ask you to read the resolution so that we can vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u189	Yes, thank you. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Is Mr Koten reporting for a vote? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u190	I wanted to vote - I pressed the button, so I do not question the vote, just for the tape screen, I wanted to abstain and I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u191	Yes, thank you. Mr Gazdík to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u192	I'm sorry, too. I'm against the 105 vote. I was up for it. Just for the stew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u193	Thank you, too. Now I'm going to repeat... Yes, Mr. Smetana.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u194	Also, I voted yes, I'm against high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u195	Do we have a vote number here? Do you have any idea what it is? About that last vote, which was number 105. So I will repeat that we will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023 and with the Government Draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2023, according to the House press 315, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 130, 175 Members and Members signed up, for 96, against 79. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And now I ask the rapporteur to put forward proposals for accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u196	Now, Madam President, we should therefore vote on accompanying resolutions, we will vote on each one separately, as we have approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u197	Sorry, I'm sorry, rapporteur. Colleagues and colleagues, please, there will be two more votes, so I ask for peace of mind to hear what resolutions you will be voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u198	We will vote on each separately. [[16.50 hours]] We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Agricultural Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to further strengthen budget chapter 329 during 2023 The Ministry of Agriculture for the purpose of financing measures implemented in the context of climate change.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u199	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 131, registered by 174 Members and Members, for 62, versus 42. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u200	The last is a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Committee: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government pay particular attention to the issue of the remuneration of judicial staff."
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u201	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 132, 174 Members of Parliament signed up, for 81, against none. The motion was denied. I note that we have approved the Government's bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2023. I thank the Minister, I thank the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Jakob apologizes from 17 o'clock without giving any reason, Taťána Malá from 13 to 16.10 for working reasons, Mrs Marie Pošarová from 15.45 to 16.30 for working reasons. And I have also noted here the request for cancellation of the apology, Mrs Taťána Malá, asking for the cancellation of the apology from 16.10 to the end of the day. We will now continue to discuss the next point, which is point 103, which is the medium-term outlook of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the years 2024 and 2025, the House press number 316, and I am passing on the management of the meeting. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2022-11-30-ps2021-045-05-003-102.u202	Good afternoon, colleagues. Let's continue with point number
