ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, take your seats. I am opening the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Ferry Horvat, Srečko Hvauc from 17.30 p.m. on, mag. Vasja Klavora, Rudolf Može from 17:00 on, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Villa Rezman, Davorin Targeton, Marjetka Uhan, Janko Weber and Milenko Ziherl. I have invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the first item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Anti-Corruption Commission to the 20th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. Before we move on to a proposal to expand the agenda, please allow the following information. On Friday, 18.11.2005, the LDS and SD sent a proposal to the President of the National Assembly to extend the agenda of the 11th meeting of the Assembly, suggesting that the National Assembly should extend the meeting by considering the act setting out the parliamentary inquiry to determine all the facts and circumstances and assessing the actual situation in the sale of capital shares, capital companies d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. in Mercator d.d., which was carried out on 30.8.2005, in order to determine whether there has been damage to State property and what the potential political responsibility of public function holders is in this regard during the 2004-2008 term. The act authorising the parliamentary investigation was prepared by the Group of Members on the basis of a request for the determination of a parliamentary inquiry by a group of 31 Members with a first-signed mag. She submitted to Milan M. Szviklom on 25 October 2005. In this regard, I note that on the agenda of this meeting of this assembly, the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry has already been included, at the request of 39 Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, which covers all the key aspects included in the definition of the subject-matter and the evidence proposals of the investigation, including those of the 31 members' groups, which means that the request of the 31 Members has already been materially implemented in the context of the 39 Members' request already tabled, and that I will therefore not put the proposal of the LDS and SD to extend the agenda to the vote. However, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax, a necessary procedure. You received the Committee's proposal by letter of 18.11.2005. Would you like a representative of the proposalers to expand the agenda? Representatives would like to see you, Mr. Rop, procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear Members. Mr. President. I have to run to protest this kind of behavior. Today, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, we have requested that you include in the vote our request, our proposal to determine the parliamentary investigation in the Mercator case. Of course, in this justification, we have also said why we are proposing this and why we do not agree with your proposal, which is, of course, within the agenda. So we have all the business right to ask you to put this to a vote, to ask you to give us an opportunity to explain why we are proposing this. Of course, then, it is a matter of the national assembly, MEPs and Members to decide whether to vote in favour or vote against. Therefore, in your opinion that, at the request of the Members of the Government, the Members of the position, the request of the opposition Members has been absorbed, we do not agree. And we disagree for a number of reasons. The first three reasons concern the reasons for which you have already been alerted by the legal and legislative service and do not take them into account in your opinion. The first reason is that the proposal of government Members is a proposal for an investigation in the case of 83 sales of shares from various Slovenian companies. The Legislative and Legal Service has specifically reminded you of the College meeting that in this case the problem will be the duration of the investigation of 83 sales cases. In particular, she warned you that in her opinion 83 sales, 83 cases could not be considered and adopted within one mandate. A very simple calculation shows that the Commission of Inquiry should work every day, every night, to find out every ten days what was going on in each case, to propose appropriate conclusions in order to propose, of course, conclusions relating to the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions. If I hadn't worked ten days and ten nights, I'd have spent about 10 to 20 years. There are many such arguments and there are at least five or six. And I ask you, kindly, to comply with democratic standards, to give the opposition the opportunity, of course, to at least present all the arguments for the establishment of an investigative commission and then to decide on these arguments. The arguments are sufficient, the arguments are clear and require the establishment of an opposition investigative commission. Therefore, I ask you to put this to the vote immediately and immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Mr. Potch, a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u4	Mr President, I would like to point out that I am firmly convinced that your decision is an abuse of the Constitution. 93. Article 93 of the Constitution clearly obliges the national assembly to establish an investigative commission in the event of a request from one third of Members and Members. Neither do you have the right to overlook this provision, nor would I have this right to have a national assembly, but this is another matter when it is on the agenda. Therefore, I think that this requirement must be placed on the agenda as all that you later claim in your explanations, whether the request for a parliamentary inquiry in Mercator is covered or not by the request of 39 Members and Members, can be assessed and debated only if both requests are submitted and if there is a discussion of how one or the other matters is covered by an investigation. As you know, today we are talking about the fact that the investigation of 39 Members and Members, which for the first time, Mercator places in the sixth place, not in the first place, and secondly, he says that the end of the year, next year, not this year, will begin an investigation about this. To claim that this covers Mercator's investigation is purely false. By the end of the second year, the majority may decide to put Mercator on the agenda once and for all, and say that it will consider the evidentiary decision, then none of the evidentiary decisions will be carried out, or that the Mercator issue will be completed every year and will not be completed by the end of the year. Therefore, you really understand that this is the fundamental values of the Constitution and democracy and that at the very least, you do not have the authority to assess for yourself that you will violate Article 93 of the Constitution and not even give Members and Members the opportunity to discuss the request submitted. The fact that it is business correctly would not even be debated because it is indisputable, and you cannot object to it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u5	Mr Potč, this was an abuse of the rules of procedure, there was no procedural proposal, one procedural proposal has already been given, not now the agenda item to be discussed on the order. This item will be scheduled for next week, on Wednesday and scheduled for 7 hours, 7 hours of discussion. That's enough time. Mr Squeakl, no more words, because we have one procedural proposal and let me answer why I will not put it to the vote. Mr Rop, I have been warned by the legal and legislative services, and, among other things, she has warned me that an investigation is being conducted in the parliamentary commission of inquiry, following a procedure established under the law on criminal proceedings. And after that, according to these provisions, in particular Article 19 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation clearly lays down the fundamental principle of criminal procedural law, that the same thing can no longer be subject to criminal proceedings, in the case of parliamentary investigations, no more parliamentary investigations can take place. If I had allowed the establishment of two investigative committees on the same subject, I would have violated this basic legal principle. I respected these warnings and did so. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. You'll get it before the vote. In other words, an orange light must burn on the right side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. Mr. Squeakl, just please don't play by the rules of procedure, the procedure proposal on the things already answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u6	Mr. President! Thank you very much for continuing to warn me what I can say. I hope you don't replace my chip. Look, Mr. President, here's the problem. If I were to allow two parliamentary investigations, the parliamentary inquiry is determined by the National Assembly and not by you and you are the right of the 31st Members, with me as the first to sign, in grave breach because if Mr President were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u7	Mr. Squeakle, there is no debate on this subject. Please finish and give [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u8	Let me explain my procedural proposal. [[...]] I have three minutes to explain the procedural proposal. Can I? Thank you very much. Look, Mr President, the problem is, of course, you've changed some of the facts. On 27 October, you received the first opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and should reject the first request because it was not justified. Then, in six steps, you did everything you could not to address the parliamentary inquiry that 31 Members have requested. And we have the right, directly under the Constitution, like the Council of State, to discuss this and decide on it by the National Assembly. You would like to discuss next week 7 hours on a document that Mr. Tanko, and some others, has managed to write in such a way that he has "written" [[in pomegranates]] Our parliamentary investigation. Gentlemen, of course, came from a parliamentary inquiry, so, Mr President, I ask you to take into account the requirements of the 31st Members, because you said in closed meetings that you would not violate the constitutional rights of the 31st Members. You are doing this now, you are in grave violation of the right of the 31 Members and we demand that you put this on the agenda. If you do not do so, we will require a recess before deciding whether to take the next steps, whether we will be in the national assembly in which you decide whether we will have one or two parliamentary investigations, and not in full, we cannot participate in this way. So, Mr President, I have 56 seconds left and allow what you are doing today, what you are doing today, is a grave violation not only of the law and the rules of procedure on parliamentary investigation, not only of the constitution, but even of the Rules of Procedure of the State Assembly in the work in which it is said that this is decided at the final stage by the State Assembly. There are two requests for a parliamentary inquiry. One was written by 39 Members, the other by 31 Members. If the National Assembly wishes to make a sovereign decision on this subject and at the same time have all six opinions on the first request and a positive opinion on the second request, then it must be placed on the agenda. Otherwise, do not give Members and Members the right to decide on the basis of information, but subject them to it. And that, Mr President, is not your job, you are the President of the National Assembly, not the President of the ruling coalition in the National Assembly. I demand that you put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u9	We are in the process of adopting a proposal to place the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax in this meeting. Would the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word on this subject? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you, but I cannot tell your colleague, Mr Plewell, who long ago sees his hand rising. I have always believed in parliamentary order and discipline, which allows a Member who wishes to speak procedurally to have a word. Allow me to propose, on the basis of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the withdrawal of the 21st point from this meeting of the National Assembly, namely that investigative committee which you have placed on your own initiative and contrary to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, at that meeting of the National Assembly. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak of a procedural proposal, allow me to clarify the position and the reasons why we propose withdrawal within the Slovenian National Party Group. As you probably know for yourself, we know for a fact that the work of the SOD and the KAD has become extremely opaque for the first time in the last period. Another time. The SOD and the CAD manage state assets. The National Assembly is called upon to control the work of the SOD and the KAD, as you know, under the leadership of this National Assembly, even to unheard activity, according to our assessment, this is that the representatives of the SOD and the KAD, we are talking about two companies operating the property of all of us, did not want to report before the mother's working body, let alone before any other interested working body. Mr Tsukati, within the national party, we have tried many times to tell all of you that the most irrelevant or not wise is what the legislative branch of power can do to establish a unilateral political commission whose objective will be solely to identify and point fingers at the perpetrators of the past regime. In the framework of the parliamentary group, we have proposed that we establish one commission within the framework of the National Assembly in which members of both the opposition and the positions will participate. The proposal has been rejected in the sense that one of the members of the national party takes on too much responsibility. Therefore, according to our assessment, if we want to maintain the good name of this national assembly and, to the extent that we want to preserve the content of the word transparency, it is most reasonable to withdraw at a given time the request for an investigative committee submitted by government parties and intended exclusively for political purposes, that is to say, pointing our finger to the past government, and I also estimate that the attempt of the United Nations Group and the Liberal Democracy to create political pressure on the current government, so the only wise thing to do is to reject both proposals today from the meetings of the National Assembly and finally approach to a solution that would allow one parliamentary commission to work together and finally come to, I hope, a solution that would reflect the actual situation of the SOD and the KAD.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u11	Mr. Pece, I'm afraid you've abused the rules of procedure, too. You are well aware that proposals for the withdrawal of individual agenda items shall be submitted by 12 noon. I did not receive such a proposal and you used this procedural proposal to speak. I repeat, the time to discuss these matters is 7 hours, and I think you will be pleased with that. Once again, I ask whether the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word on the proposal of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to expand the agenda by considering the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on corporate income tax - an urgent procedure. No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u12	President, thank you very much. But what you've just said to Mr. Pecchet is your treachery. Two proposals have been made and, of course, these two proposals and withdrawals can only be debated if you include them. To this day, no one could have known that you would decide to remain only a proposal at the sitting itself. I propose, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the Liberal Democracy Club, a 30-minute break in which we will decide how to participate in the work of the National Assembly, in which you decide everything. The colleges are no longer valid, nor are the demands of the parliamentary groups; only what you say applies. Mr President, this is unacceptable. The Constitution clearly sets out what the National Assembly should decide on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u13	Mr Cvikl, let me remind you that there is no explanation for the vote regarding the agenda and it is not possible to suspend the meeting before the vote, to request interruptions in terms of consultation with the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u14	Before any decision, Mr President, it is possible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u15	So explained the business commission and so it is in practice, so please sit down [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u16	30 minutes of rest to discuss [[..]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u17	We cannot accept proposals that are contrary to the rules of procedure, so we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will treat this point as 6a. the agenda item. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you received it by reference and with the proposed addition. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 12. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the agenda for the 11th meeting of the assembly is set. I'm putting an end to this session and we'll continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u18	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 27 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Then will be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel and Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak, answered the parliamentary questions raised at the 10th meeting of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to their absence. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and ministers shall answer the question in no more than five minutes; the same is true if the question is raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Defence, Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Dr Jura Zupan and Minister of Justice Dr. Lovro Šturm after 5 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by the mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u19	Dear Members and Members, Mr Janša, Minister and Ministers! Mr Janša, in a decade you will have the year that you have sworn to take care of prosperity in Slovenia through your conscience and with all your strength. A year later it's clear that you don't care about the welfare of everyone. You have made many harmful moves in the social environment and in particular in the economic and tax fields. First of all, you made a number of harmful exchanges when you set up political and not professionally compatible public officials, police chiefs, prosecutors, school administrators and so on. Another time. You're hurting the economy. In Operation Mercator, after the August 12th meeting, we were followed by damages to taxpayers for more than 29 billion or 3,000 apartments. Today, the President of the National Assembly has not even allowed us to put this debate on the agenda. Then you made a political exchange in Mercator, and today the visitors of your meeting are politically taking over the newspaper Dela. In the banking sector you have suspended the bank's administration, which made the third bank in Slovenia since the seventh, now "raising" has been reduced and this bank is now cheaper prey for visitors to your meetings. You replaced Director Luke Koper, Prime Minister Petrol has fallen. Were they also the disruptive element of a few days ago replaced by Mercator's boss? Even if the directors are hired by the labour force, we must be very concerned that the good results do not count. It doesn't matter what you know. It's important that you're ours. And the third time. This year, you increased the pressure on public debt by borrowing Dars, the municipalities, the state budget, the loss of selling Mercator. The logical question is, where are you going to get all this, who's going to pay for it? You give the answer yourself. You've tightened tax legislation, attached to reformists' moves to save money. The only saving is to double the taxation of food, books, child needs, new housing, medicines. Are you only doing this so that you can get the richest? We are concerned that you share yours first, and after spending hundreds of billions without covering, you are proposing sharp, hard reforms to save everyone. Mr. Jansha! What is the effect in 2005 on the lives and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia of the decisions and actions of the government you run in the field of tax legislation? Tell us, what does a Mercator dealer have to do with you? Does he have more than a tear in his eyes because of the uncertain future?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you very much for the questions, although I must say that, despite the fact that it has been a year since the elections were held, that we have a new government and also a new opposition, the position still does not know the rules of procedure and does not respect it, nor does it respect it with regard to the questions that have been sent, so that we know what has been asked and what question has been raised. I'll read it. Mr Cvikl sent a question that reads: What is the effect in 2005 of the government's decisions and actions in the field of tax and economic law on the lives and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Now, if I release some political footnotes in this introduction, then I would say that the new government has essentially received the most difficult legacy when tax legislation in the previous term or the end of the previous term were passed new tax laws or amendments to tax laws that have made the lives of citizens and citizens in Slovenia very complicated and encouraging. The government went straight to that problem. At this meeting, you will be dealing directly with four tax laws that are trying to correct or remedy the situation you have caused. This is the case with the Wage Tax Act as early as 2006 for the proposal to reduce this tax by 20%. Indeed, the opposition has tabled a bill to abolish this tax. Of course, she did not propose this law as long as it was government, because it is simply impossible to do it overnight. We hope that the opposition will support at least a 20% reduction in this tax, which is proposed in a law you do not have on the agenda. In the Income Act, where we have also proposed changes, one of the most important innovations is an increased overall relief to solve the housing problem, which was obviously not possible before. In the case of the Law on corporate income tax, we introduce new development incentives or reductions in the tax base for investing in research and development, which the former government has substantially reduced by amending the law. In the case of value added tax, it will be possible for the first time to charge this tax for craftsmen and smaller entrepreneurs who have a taxed turnover of up to 50 million after the paid realization, rather than on the basis of an invoiced realization, which was a long-standing requirement of the economy, especially of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is simply a matter of action taken by the government immediately, which can be implemented next year and, in so far as the National Assembly supports this change in the tax area, next year the lives of citizens and citizens who are subject to the implementation of these tax laws will be much easier and cheaper, especially less complicated. At the same time, the government recently approved the framework for economic and social reforms. With this framework, we anticipate a more thorough change in the tax area or tax legislation since 2007, particularly a very large simplification, which is one of our key problems. We expect the same debate to be held, such as on some other less important issues, including this proposal. As regards these repeated observations, which are repeated very parrotically with regard to the meeting on 12 August, I should say that the Prime Minister may meet with anyone, including the directors of any company. The record of this meeting was made available to my office, it was published. This record denies your claims. In the future, the Prime Minister will also meet with whom he will consider it necessary. He will not ask for permission either from Mr Squeakle, not from Mr Rope, nor from anyone else who has recently changed in this regard, as if such meetings had not been held in the past and would not be in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Squeakl, would you like an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u23	I am not satisfied with what Mr President has said because he is obviously not concerned about the well-being of everyone. Allow me to quote you from the law your government has passed. In the Act amending the Income Act, you have adopted a solution that adds taxation to all citizens and citizens. But you tax what people give the hardest, you tax savings at 20% tax rate. For you have abolished the relief introduced by the previous government, which has always been in force in Slovenia and now everyone, each of us, a Mercator merchant, an old mother, you, all here, will pay on every five tolar interest one tolar tax to the country. At the same time as you have done so, Mr President, you are the richest group in Slovenia, the group which, on the basis of the decisions of the DEMOS Government and the law adopted here, has received more than 200 billion assets, and you wanted to completely exempt them from interest payments, says on the one hand every fifth of us from savings, and on the other hand, you wanted to exempt those nationalising beneficiaries from up to 70 billion interest payments at the time of the commitment. You are consulting with the Minister of Finance to explain this to you. So what kind of company are we building? Do you build a society in which all have one, a society where worship and a society where it is under pressure? Because with the framework of economic reforms you are proposing with 13% of the VAT rise, you will push down on those who have less and middle layers. Therefore, my additional question, Mr President, what are the social, economic, tax reasons that guide you in these decisions?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u25	First, let me answer another one of the previous questions, or claim, because time has run out. With regard to the replacement, I do not go into whether this substitution has been motivated in any way or not, whether it be those who have made this decision or anyone else. It is certainly undeniable, however, that Mr Jankovic's establishment was political, that this political establishment was carried out by your right neighbour, Mr Rop, who also made this public. This video could be watched again on Saturday, when Mr Rop told Mr Jankovic directly: "I set you up, the politics set you up, you were politically set up." Thus, with regard to the suspension, opinions can be different, and there is only one truth about the setting, which the one who also recognized, was a political adjustment. With regard to the continuation of this question, which is not a question, I must first conclude that we should change the title of the agenda item. The opposition here does not ask, the opposition asks and answers. Mr. Squeakle has asked a question and has already answered it himself. Then he asked me why I was doing what he attributed to me. So there is no point in defending ourselves against charges that have been made in advance, which are not posed as questions, but as some claim. [[...]] As far as the Income Act is concerned, there are many solutions in this law that correct the mistakes you have taken in the previous term, very much the solution, I do not know how many hours you have spent on the Finance Committee to go through the debate on this in the course of this meeting. If there is any other proposal that can improve things, I will be the first to support it. But I wonder, of course, where were all these suggestions while you were in power? Why did ideas suddenly come about the day after the 3rd of October last year? Clearly, this was a very healing date, including the release of intellectual potentials. Very well, then, some have taken on the role of the opposition, which is good. The country needs a good government and also a good opposition. But I must say, in this function, you are better than you were in office when you were in government. After those six months, there have been many problems and many things that we are still solving.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u27	Procedurally. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that the National Assembly decide, at the time of the vote, to hold a debate on the incorrect response of the Prime Minister. I asked him what was the effect in 2000 of the government's decisions and actions. I am not asking you what Members are proposing, I am talking about the decisions that the government, which you are leading along with the Minister of Finance, is proposing on his proposal. This reflects the political philosophy of your government and I ask you this question. That's why, of course, I told you how you can take every fifth tolar on one side, and on the other hand, you can give someone up to 70 billion after you've already spent 29 billion in Mercator's business alone. I therefore propose that we discuss in the National Assembly the adverse functioning of the government in the economy. In the case of Operation Mercator, when you replaced someone who had 11 times the value of Mercator, you created more than 3,000 apartments for young families. We need to talk about how you could create 600 billion public debt pressures in one year. I hope you know that these numbers exist, and I hope you know that. And we need to talk about this in particular, in this session, with an answer to who is going to pay for it. For you propose teaching, Mr President, on the part of those who are the poorest, not those who are the richest. Even with a single tax rate, this is proposed by raising the VAT rate. As, of course, there is no public debate in the National Assembly or anywhere on the so-called reform framework, I propose that we hold a debate on the inadequate response of the Prime Minister to this reform framework. I do not call them the framework of economic reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, but I call them the framework of reforms to increase the well-being of only some. This should be the debate on the non-response of the Prime Minister, who swore to take care of prosperity in Slovenia. The proposals you have adopted in the last year, which, unfortunately, will be adopted this week, because, by the way, the Income Act is closed, of course, something that will mean, above all, that someone will have to cover the losses and costs of lost opportunities in the first year of your mandate. So I want to discuss how this government is under pressure and taxing all of us to spend and act harmfully; how it first consumes hundreds of billions, and then says, save for us. I ask that we discuss this at the time of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Cwickel, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on the question of the mission, [[I'll read it.]] : What is the effect in 2005 of the decisions and actions of the government you run in the field of tax legislation and the economic field on the lives and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? This proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, as part of tomorrow's vote. Mr. Miran Potč, you're up for [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u29	Mr President, Mr Janša said something to you and you must have been confused before, I have noticed. This is a debate on the response of the Prime Minister, not on the question of the honourable Member of Cwickle. So I ask you politely if you can reshape your claim or motion for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u30	I have said, and I repeat, the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Cwickl, to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question of the Member of Parliament. Not to be mistaken, I read his question. In the meantime, he asked a lot of questions, and he said a lot more, but the question was asked in writing, in time, and I have him here. Mr. Miran Potrč, please ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! At the last government meeting, I asked you some questions about the State's denationalisation obligations. In particular, I stressed the problem of the uncovered obligations of the Slovenian compensation company of at least 150 billion and the real possibility that this burden would have to be borne by the budget and taxpayers. You've admitted the problem, a concrete answer, how to solve it, you haven't offered yet. In addition, I was particularly interested in how much of the property recovered at the expense of denationalisation would be obtained by the Roman Catholic Church, among other things. With regard to this question, you have answered me that the government does not monitor and do not have such data. Your answer in this part was not accurate. We should say that even the returned property of the Roman Catholic Church, at least until 2000, was kept in very precise detail and that it is possible to establish that the Roman Catholic Church has demanded rejection by types of property and value of at least one tenth of all claims. This is certainly more than 50 billion tolls in total without additional compensation for the inability to use from the application lodged to the date of return. As we see and know, all applications are now being dealt with expeditiously by settlement, including by hiring special people in the government or in the Office of the Defence to deal with these issues, all with favor, even though there are serious problems, such as in schools, kindergartens and so on, when it is necessary to find alternative facilities and the right of the State not to return them in nature, but in the form of compensation. For this reason, Mr President, I ask for an honest answer to my last question on the church's property returned. In addition, due to the increasing number of proposals made by your government, which show, in many of the amendments to the laws, a strong desire for the benefit of the Roman Catholic Church, I am interested in which all proposals and solutions in favour of the special situation of the RCC, including on the account of the larger material obligations of taxpayers, are still planned by your government and whether this mutual affection, which may even exceed the constitutional principle of separation of the State and the church, is no longer possible [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] a distinctive form of political partnership. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u33	As far as the question of denationalisation is concerned, for the last time I gave the data available, the Member requested very specific data, the refund of nationalised property, and I said most of this information, and today I can only repeat it so that it is not guided. In the 12th or 13th years of the implementation of the denationalisation law, the previous government has not established such a mode of governance, but now the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for collecting these data after the question has been raised, has begun to collect data in this way, and once we have all gathered them, there is no reason not to get them, especially because it is manipulated by some, in the interest of everyone that all these data are on the table. I must also say that the law on denationalisation, which was adopted, required the authorities to complete the procedures within two years, I believe that this deadline expired in 1994. You have not completed these procedures during the 12-year rule, so we have to deal with them, this is totally unnecessary, I think in no other post-communist country have they been engaged in denationalisation for so long, and we are dealing with this because, of course, this has not been done. You had in your hands a pair of scissors and a canvas, legislatively, executive power. You set up a constitutional court that made decisions. The result of all this was that we are still dealing with denationalisation in 2005. This is totally inappropriate, and it takes a lot of power, and it's because someone who's been paid for it hasn't done their job in 12 years. And we strongly reject these findings. As regards the continuation of this issue, the government does not support any measure or plan it to be in favour of the particular situation of the Roman Catholic Church, as you have stated, not in the question, but in the statement. However, the Law on Religious Freedom is provided for. It's been being prepared by the Religious Community Office for two years. He started preparing it in the previous government where you were with him. The Government has not yet considered this proposal. Various work versions were discussed in public. When the government sends the law forward to the procedure, the law will be in accordance with the Constitution, in particular Article 41 of the Constitution Act, which speaks of religious freedom, and also in accordance with Article 7 of the Constitution, which guarantees the equality and freedom of the religious communities, in accordance with the principle of separation between the State and the Church. This right, this value, this freedom is the same protection in the Constitution as freedom of religion. This instigation, as the government expresses its desire for many amendments to the law in favor of the Roman Catholic Church, does not surprise me because it repeatedly repeats itself. I have the feeling that some opposition parties mainly deal with the church and cultural struggle instead of issues of fundamental importance for the future of Slovenia. From this point of view, as a government, we would like a little more cooperation on key topics. The constant repetition of sent questions about denationalisation, about the church, about the past, about the cultural battle will not lead us far. Nor is there any special mutual affection between the government and the largest religious community. But the fact is, to religious communities, this government behaves differently than they did, I don't know, 15 years ago. Perhaps someone is suing after what happened at the time can be listed. As has already been said, the government is trying to save those things that have not yet been solved, and they should be. Denationalisation is one of these issues. I don't know what kind of damage they're denigrating. This would not have to be done if this property had not been stolen at one time, but now it is returned on the basis of the law and the decisions of the Constitutional Court which were produced in previous mandates. This government has not changed any rules of the game, it is implementing what has been settled for over 12 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Potch, does he want you to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is no doubt that you were unclear about the accuracy of the reply earlier. I'm not gonna use another term, but maybe I could. You said, you probably understand that if this record hasn't been established in the 12 years, we can't even set up a record from question day. That's not true. This record was established and you could also request from the Ministry of Justice information that has been available for at least a few years. I have them up to and including in 2000, because they were made public, precisely visible by individual excuses until denationalisation, including by the special vindication of the Roman Catholic Church. It's this information. If you're interested, because you don't know about them, I'll give them to you, but I know and I believe you know that or you didn't want to know. Second, the content of the law. Yeah. The content of the law is the one adopted by the then Parliament in 1991 at the time of the Demos' government and is unique in Europe. Nowhere in Europe has 100% of the assets, and this, as a rule in nature, been returned, because other principles have been followed, but not just the principle of injury. And a third. It's not good that you're talking about pandering, it's not good that you're talking about a cultural battle. It is not politics, science, profession, religion, sociologists and the like that it warns that in the country, as a whole, a serious issue should be raised after the situation and regulation of the issues of the Roman Catholic Church, not as unilaterally as the government proposes, and not with many additional substantive rights given to the government. I will understand your answer that you will not propose anything, but I doubt that is true because I know many suggestions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u37	So again, I repeat that I last gave those answers to questions about denationalisation that were possible to be collected. I'm very surprised, and I can also say shocked at what I just heard. The MP says he's got the information, and he can give it to me. I don't know why he asked the question if he already knew. I'm even more surprised that someone has data that apparently isn't collected from official records. Is there still a parachutist that works in parallel? I'm extremely concerned about this, as I've already said. Some records were not kept on the basis of the specification given in the previous question. Now we're collecting this data, and once they're collected, they'll be available. Some of the data was collected, they were collected, and I told them the last time. Now, as far as the law on religious freedom is concerned, the government has not yet proposed it, Mr Potsch. You said what the government was proposing. This is not yet proposed by the government because the government has not yet examined this law and sent it into procedure. The law is being prepared in the competent institutions when the government forwards this law, this law will be in accordance with both Article 41 and Article 7 of the Constitution. Both articles, on the one hand, protect the separation of the church from the State and, on the other hand, guarantee religious freedom. Unlike [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] of which, when the priests were imprisoned, were harassed, during the post - World War II period, when you were in power, the prosecutions sentenced to imprisonment of 340 priests, nine shot or sentenced to death, for trivial cases, the majority of these proceedings fell on renewed trials. [[...]] No one has ever apologized for this harassment. What the government is trying to achieve now is some normal dialogue between religious communities, which are an important part of civil society, and between the country, taking into account the constitutional foundations which are here perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Potts, do you want to run? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you very much. In the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose, following the reply of the Prime Minister to my question, that my question be debated, because it is absolutely necessary for this national assembly and the public to be able to find that there are official data published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, which the President does not know, and at the same time accuses anyone, not just me, that we have data collected on some strange channels. Mr President, the data have been published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, and it is therefore necessary to look at, identify and see that the government could also have them if there was any respect for this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Run. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of denationalisation procedures and the state's attitude towards the Roman Catholic Church, the State Assembly will decide in the context of tomorrow's vote. We continue to ask questions to the Prime Minister. Mr. Victory Jelinčič is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The good, transparent and legal functioning of the State requires transparency, non-politicality and the legality of work, in particular, or, in the first place, internal affairs and judicial authorities. In the Republic of Slovenia, we are witnessing in pre-prepared processes prepared in the early 1990s by former authorities, which are finally being carried out today. Cases that have become common in these 12 years continue in the courts, in cooperation with the police, when various strange, secret police officers are used, when certain facts in the courts are disregarded when certain facts are hidden, fettered, treated in different ways or simply disregarded. It happens that even prosecutors declare: "Yes, it is, we should change the matter, correct it, but I will not do it." Then such a prosecutor goes to a higher, better job on Ptuj, this is Mr Chibej. Then it happens to judges who do not want to write in any way exoneration judgements because they would resent their former political camadas or leaders from 12 years of rule, are simply eliminated and look at it, they go to a higher position, for example Mrs. Butenko in Maribor. At all, the feature of the Maribor court is a special law that we can find a new term "lex mariboriensis", I think that we could introduce this as a term into what textbooks of law, not just us, but in the world, perhaps in parallel with that law that Mr. Visinski introduced during Stalin's time and in those methods of action. In fact, the Court of Maribor works largely in this way, it doesn't matter how it happens, it's important who said how it should happen. I therefore ask the President whether, or when will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia begin to regulate the area of the judiciary and internal affairs by means of a systematic approach, in what way will it allow for its depoliticisation, since it is evident that the vast majority of the procedures for cooperation with internal affairs authorities are based on the authorities of prosecution and the decisions of individual judges due to the long-standing rule of certain political options to the detriment of law, justice and justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you for asking. As far as internal affairs are concerned, the Government or the Ministry of the Interior has taken certain measures that should deliver results in the future in terms of state-of-the-art recovery. I hope that's the way it's gonna be. Here the government is fully responsible and is aware of that. As far as justice is concerned, the Slovenian Constitution provides for the division of power, so that I will not comment on the claim concerning individual courts or their work. My principle is that the courts are completely independent in their trial in specific cases, but they are not free to decide whether they are working or not. The courts are for them to judge, the judges are for them to judge in accordance with the Constitution and the law. We have major problems with this in Slovenia. These problems are called judicial backlogs. Hundreds of thousands of people in this country have been waiting too long for their rights, beyond the normal deadlines. The government has obtained this legacy with a mandate. We can only work here. In part, you can do something in this national assembly and the legislative and executive authorities cannot solve this problem in full. Movements must also be made within, in justice itself. Even the public, the media could do more here. If not otherwise, by highlighting good examples. There are courts where there are no judicial backlogs, there are environments where things are going perfectly normal and, of course, the backlogs accumulate, where organisation is weak and where whenever a minister or government asks these questions, there are usually no concrete answers to them, but everything hides itself for the independence of the judiciary. Nevertheless, there have been some positive developments. The modernisation of business can certainly reduce this gap between what is necessary and what this branch of government is actually doing. I must also say that the state is already facing compensation for lawsuits in European courts due to delays. This can also be a significant problem in the future from the point of view of public finances. But back there, things can't be arranged. As regards the depoliticisation of this branch of power, I must say that in some cases it would be very necessary, including developments concerning the President of the Court of Ljubljana. This person expresses political views and manifests them, which is unacceptable. This diminishes the reputation of the judiciary. It is not a problem if a civil society institution has a low reputation in public opinion, nor does it have such a problem if it has a low reputation as a political party or, last but not least, an institution, including this high council, such as parliament or government. These are the institutions that are changing. Every four years, voters and voters elect a new National Assembly, a new Member. The government can be replaced even more than once, it's all replaceable. We have a permanent term of office with the judges after the constitution. It is a permanent structure that must, at the end, be the last instance to judge what is right and what is wrong, which decides practically everything. If this branch of government has a low reputation in the public, then we all have a very big problem and we are facing it today. It probably doesn't affect that, or to a lesser extent it affects the things you've been saying. It's a structural problem. The reforms that were made here, or started in the early 90 ’ s, have largely produced poor results in the mid - 90 ’ s. It didn't get better, but it got worse. What is under the authority of the Government and what is in the hands of the executive branch in this mandate, we will do. I'm sure you'll do what's in your jurisdiction in the National Assembly. Together, however, we can hope that the judicial branch itself will do its part.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr. Jelinčič, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you have answered a considerable part of my thinking. It is true that the separation of the legal branch of power from the legislative and executive branch is very important, and we cannot do without it. And yet it is the legal branch of power that is largely owned and actually represents, as it was once said, "God and Batino" on earth. They have scissors and linen in their hands, and they all abuse it for their own benefit, far from the application of the law. In doing so, they are greatly assisted by internal affairs gentlemen, from the police, and I think that this structural problem will have to be solved there for a slightly stronger cut. At the police station, if I'm not mistaken, there are about 200 people who should have been shot out long ago, and yet they're making a case. Very unprofessional, very bad, and therefore the state of Slovenia can expect - because of this combination of one and the other, the country of Slovenia can expect severe lawsuits before European courts, not because of delays, but because of non-compliance with the law, because of ignorance of the law and because of the abuse of the law. I will address once again, as an example, the Maribor court, where the judge, Mrs. Roth, is. [[End warning sign]] , punished for delaying for two days with 200 grand of someone [[It's me.]] While the case has been in court for 13 years and nothing happens. Why doesn't it happen? Because they can't find a way to lock me up. And this is the only option in this Maribor court. Everything is clearly clear, it's about police abuse, it's about human rights reduction. [[Re-warning sign for end]] And things like that, and yet nothing happens. In short, it's time to do something. Maybe the first step is this: abolishing a permanent mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. Prime Minister, please. [[Back-up advertising.]] We're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mr Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My question will be as brief as possible, asking the following questions: In view of the appearance of information in the public, especially in the media, that Mercator and the insurance company Triglav concluded a purchase contract in 2000, under which Mercator temporarily sold shares to Triglav at the price of 13,200 Tolars, although the market value of the shares at the moment is around 37,000 Tolars, and Kad and the Court sold them even after 38,000 Slovenian Tolars, I ask: What can the government do about this, if it can do anything, to somehow prevent the continuous damage to property that has been done since 2000? It should be pointed out that the insurance company Triglav is owned by the majority state. What can your government do about this contract if it is concluded in a way reported by the media, Mr President? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you for asking. Now the government can do nothing about this case directly, as in similar cases, but the Supervisory Board of the insurance company Triglav, as we have received the information, has refused to agree on the realisation of this business. The temporary situation is such that it has not been realized. The execution of this contractual transaction has been suspended for the time being. The contractual price of the shares that have been parked represents practically only 30% of the market price. It saddens me that there are no people in the hall who can immediately calculate how much damage has been caused to taxpayers. I am also surprised that no one calculated this damage, especially for those who calculated this damage when the shares were sold at a market price, which is listed on the stock exchange, which is 37, 38 thousand, and here the shares were sold at 13,000, 200, and there is no damage. Which, of course, means that in Slovenia there is damage if you sell shares more expensive, which is a special account of some economists. The question is why the insurance management Triglav signed such contracts that were then and are harmful today. A question shall be raised on behalf of the consent of the then Supervisory Board. There is a reasonable suspicion that Mercator's administration violated the company law, as the shares it bought in the equity fund could only be purchased for a specified purpose. These purposes are specified in the company law, even in the law which was in force at the time. Of course, there is no intention of trading in own shares between these purposes, it is said to have been illegal. The Triglav supervisory authorities will have to examine the injury in this case, which persons responsible have also been involved in signing contracts and annexes. If the implementation of the contracts cannot be terminated, as judicial proceedings are likely to be initiated, insurance company Triglav will have to claim any damages from the responsible persons and act in accordance with the law. It's like triggering indemnifications and all the other lawsuits.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister. At the 10th meeting of the National Assembly, Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler and Members Samo Bevk, Franc Kangler and Bojan Kontič raised questions of their own, namely, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, and the Minister for Economy, Mag. To Andre Visiak, who were not present at the meeting. Since Members have requested an oral response, they will receive it today. Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, is also absent today, he will answer the question of the Member, Mrs Darje Lavtijar Bebler, at the next meeting. First of all, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will answer the question asked by Mr Sam Bevik, Commissioner, about the envisaged activities related to the bird flu virus. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u51	Mr Member, thank you for the question. The Ministry of Agriculture or the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has so far implemented a number of measures, in accordance with the European Community guidelines and recommendations, aimed at preventing the introduction of avian influenza or avian influenza on the soil of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me mention the most important measures taken by the veterinary authorities to this end. It prepared a legal basis for action, prepared a plan for disease control measures and carried out a simulation exercise, carried out regular monitoring on domestic poultry and wild birds, which it increased during the autumn period. It prepared information and recommendations for poultry breeders and veterinarians, ordered the closure of poultry and birds in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at the highest risk. The Authority shall monitor daily the implementation of the poultry closure in the field and shall give the necessary instructions to the local veterinarians and the national veterinary institute. It regularly monitors the occurrence of the disease and attends meetings of the European Commission. At the Ministry, it is estimated that the veterinary profession is adequately prepared for the possible occurrence of avian influenza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor, and also thank you for your reply to Minister Lukačič. However, I would have one question, for at the previous meeting, I asked or made a statement on the basis of a newspaper article that the dead were not tested at all. In the first half of August, more than 60 grey hats were killed in Muta below Pohorje. And this article, published by the newspaper Delo on October 19th, states that the Slovenian Veterinary Service was unable to provide enough fresh bodies, so they never carried out tests on a dangerous H5N1 virus. The author of this contribution wonders, "Did the infection go through without even knowing it?" That's what I'm asking you, Madam Minister of Agriculture. Article 45 of the Veterinary Act makes it very clear, even though this article is very extensive, it has as many as 13 paragraphs, and in the second paragraph it is stated that in the suspicion of certain infectious diseases it is necessary to provide diagnostic, field and laboratory tests, as well as a pathoatonic diagnosis that confirms the disease or casts doubt. That is why I am interested in the fact that there has never been a denial of this contribution to the newspaper Delo: Is it true that these dead people have not been tested at all? But it's a very large death toll of 60. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you for that additional question. It's just a case. According to me, the known data has recently analysed all dead birds, especially migratory birds. In particular, this case would be difficult to answer. However, we will answer in writing whether they have been analysed or not; I cannot answer that today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Franz Kangler also asked the Minister the question concerning the implementation of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you very much for the question, Member. It refers to the implementation of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, has drawn up a proposal for a regulation on the granting of concessions for the sustainable management of game in fisheries in the Republic of Slovenia, but has not taken a decision on the issue of that Regulation. There are several reasons for this. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a number of initiatives to assess the constitutionality and legality of the adopted law on hunting and game. These also referred to Chapter 5 of the Act, which provides for the granting of concessions on the sustainable management of game. Therefore, the Constitutional Court of Justice will bring the matter together and deal with it. Due to alleged human rights violations, proceedings are also pending before the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg. For all of this reason, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken these facts into account at the time of the proposed regulation and has instructed the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to analyse the situation and prepare appropriate solutions as soon as possible and within 30 days at the latest. With regard to the sub-legislative acts referred to by the Member in this matter, the following: The three submarital acts have been adopted, the next three are ready and will be published no later than the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you for the opportunity for further questions. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer of the distinguished minister. But I'm not happy because he's consciously violating the Wildlife and Hunting Act. Under the third paragraph of Article 81, Madam Minister, you are obliged to award concessions within three months of the establishment of the hunting grounds, as adopted by the previous Government, the decree establishing the hunting grounds. You haven't done it in a year. No decision of the Government may or may not prejudge this Article of the Act, paragraph 3, of Article 81 of the Law. It is true that proceedings are brought before the Constitutional Court and that proceedings are pending before the European Court of Justice. But before the proceedings in the European Court of Justice are concluded or in the Constitutional Court - if the substance of the law we passed in the previous term under the Minister, who is today the Secretary of State, France Booth, had there been so many violations, the Constitutional Court would immediately stop certain provisions of the law and should not be implemented. Therefore, I ask you: Why do you not respect Article 81, paragraph 3, and why do you not respect Article 39 of the Law and sign concessions because the revenue from concessions would run into the budget and concessions could thus be remedied after the game. I must also remind you that we have had coalition coordination on this subject - here I have a record - and three coalition parties: SDS, Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS do not support any other changes that you have made in the draft proposal prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture. I am therefore surprised that you have decided on a completely different path than the coalition in Parliament supports it. I'd like an answer to a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u61	Undoubtedly, the law stipulates that with 1.4 we should grant concessions for the sustainable management of game. The fact is that the Ministry has drawn up this appropriate proposal for a regulation and that it has been established in the government procedure that it is also necessary to take into account the comments of the other interested public who obviously did not participate in the drafting of the adopted law and that these comments should be analysed and perhaps proposed to amend the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Minister for Economy, Mr Andrej Vizjak, owes an answer to the question put by Mr Bojan Kontic regarding the appointment of state representatives to the supervisory council. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your question. The oral question was targeted and put as follows. The Member asks me: Are their professional references taken into account when proposing candidates and candidates for the Supervisory Boards? The answer is yes. All the proposals I have proposed as Minister of Economy to the Government for members of the Supervisory Boards, the owner of which is the State and in which it is also delegated to the Government of its representatives, are a basic and first criterion of expertise. I ask you for some specific information, if you do not think that this has been the case. Of course, in the following questions, this is said, or even in cases where the Slovenian Power Plants hold this on behalf of the Government. Holding the Slovenian power plant does nothing on behalf of the government, which, of course, the government does not explicitly authorize and I do not know why the government would authorize it. However, it is likely that, since the Member of Parliament is speaking hereafter about the company of Šostjanj, he is referring to the proposal and appointment of members of the boards of supervisors by the holding company to the subsidiary company of the holding company. I have to be very clear that these relations are governed by the company law. The Company Act gives and imposes that holding is the owner who then designates his own people in the supervisory board of subsidiaries, so the government has no powers, no recommendations and no formal and informal means of influence that the holding company appoints or appoints to its subsidiaries. That is why it is difficult for me to comment and cannot answer the question about the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Italian Power Plant. So the government here and also the Ministry of Economy by law has no role to play. However, I will be happy to provide the Member with an answer to this question which I will obtain from the Slovenian Power Plant's holding company, but I should know which particular name is at issue here, as you state, so it is out of the question that certain members of the Supervisory Board at the Termoelectrica Šostanj do not comply with your measure and the assessment of the professional criteria. I can turn to holding Slovenian power plants to explain this to me. Once again, I stress that for all the proposals I have proposed as Minister of Government, the first and most important criterion is the competence of the candidate and the future member of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! A very clever answer to the question raised, in particular with a view to blurring and answering in such a way that there will in fact be no answer. It's true, I didn't read you off-limits or suggesting non-professional candidates where your authority is. But we know who's hiring in the holding company and then we know who the holding company is. This is also the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant, as you said. And in view of this, although I am sure that you know who this is, I am sure that you can answer this question at this meeting, because of the clarity of your reply in writing, I am telling you that this is the Vice-President of your Council of the Party at the state level, that this is your party's President in Velenj, that this is the person who is now also appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Italian Power Plant, and that he has several political kilometres behind him also in your client. Once unstranger. I can therefore doubt that this is a political appointment and not an expert one. Therefore, I ask you to obtain information from a holding company, which is certainly within your jurisdiction or Dr. Jože Zagozhen, was probably appointed to the government to manage the holding company as some others. You can probably very clearly answer my only real question: Is the recruitment into the TEC supervisory board a professional or political person? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u67	Of course, as Minister, it will be difficult for me to be responsible for the criteria and criteria and this subjective assessment of whether someone is expert or not. I am convinced that Dr. Jože Zagozhen, President of the Slovenian Power Plant Management Board, has proposed all names to the supervisory boards of subsidiaries on the basis of sound reflection and, in fact, on the same criteria, where the expertise is far and very important criteria. Of course, I will provide myself with an explanation from Mr Zagozno or from the management of the Slovenian Power Plant holding company, depending on your question, and I will present it to you. Once again, I stress that these are appointments to subsidiaries, and they are managed in accordance with the company law, and neither the government nor the minister has any authority here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mrs Majda Shirca will first ask the question to the Minister for Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Vasko Simoniti! Before the adoption of the law on RTV Slovenia, you promised that the law would bring better and more expensive television and that the situation in Parliament would come to every home. Today, when marriage is in force, I ask you: Where are these promises? Is the RTV contribution already reduced and has the new law already enabled a better programme and do we respect the law in this sense that the third programme, which entered into force on Saturday, 12 November, is already in force? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank the honourable Members for the question. I understand your question as a sincere desire that everything in the law will be settled as soon as possible and as successfully as possible, so that we will get a truly public RTV Slovenia that will work for the benefit and satisfaction of all citizens. Therefore, I am also grateful to you for these questions that the public hears them that the things that have been known for months have not been done, but they show a common interest that public RTV will become truly accessible to all in that important part of the national assembly, which will bring the work of Members who express a genuine democratic value to viewers and viewers. I therefore consider this your question to be a form that will help to bring about a faster implementation of the requirements laid down in this law. With regard to the violation of the law, I find it equally important and encouraging to note that the law had been in breach of the Constitution for 12 years before, but no one protested. It is right that the opposition also warns over and over and over again, as this will put pressure on RTV Slovenia to do so as soon as possible. The transitional and final provisions of the law do not, however, set deadlines for the start of the broadcasting of the parliamentary channel. The implementation of this law is therefore left to the relevant authorities within the public institution of RTV Slovenia. It is the duty of the competent services on RTV Slovenia to act before the law is enforced, that is, immediately after the people have expressed their support for the law at the referendum and it is clear that the law will enter into force so that these competent services will start carrying out activities related to the start of the 3rd programme. We are convinced that if there were the will of the competent people on RTV Slovenia, this programme would already work or at least be close to it. According to our information, the introductory activities have already begun between the General Secretariat of the National Assembly and the leadership of RTV Slovenia, which are still at the level of introductory meetings and verification of possible options. According to our information, the National Assembly already has all the technical possibilities to start broadcasting the 3rd parliamentary channel tomorrow. For further information, please contact the General Secretariat of the National Assembly. As far as capacity is concerned, RTV Slovenia has its territory covered three times with frequencies. So they're reserves. There are additional options because, under the new RTV law, there is also an advantage in obtaining frequencies if there is a need to do so. I can also say that all the other activities envisaged by the new law are already under way. As we know, the National Assembly's mandate-holder committee has already adopted a public call for candidates for members of the Programme Council, and has also called on the leaders of the Group of Members to form a proposal by 5 December for political party candidates for members of the Programme Supervisory Board, enabling this to be possible when it is chosen, unless the 3rd Programme is already in place, that new Council will in fact lead this public television to start doing so. As far as the reduced contribution is concerned. As promised, given that it is likely that this is not verified, RTV will show a high positive outcome this year, so I believe that the conditions for initiating the reduction of the subscription can be met. However, before the final decision, we will re-check the business data. At the same time, the amount of the subscription according to the referendum outcome is frozen in one way or another, but that is also why this subscription is effectively reduced from the date of its entry into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u73	I am pleased that today Slovenians and Slovenians hear for the first time after the law has been enforced that the amount of the RTV contribution is frozen. So far, we have heard that the subscription will be lower to pay a lower television subscription for the program. Mr. Minister, you thank me for reminding me that we are here together to remind you that the things that are in marriage will be done. The Ministry of Culture is the custodian of the implementation of the law on RTV Slovenia or of the institution's constitutional rights. That is why it is up to you to give an accurate answer: When will the third parliamentary programme be introduced, as you promised? When will better programs be available, and when will they be cheaper? When there will be more commercial stations and films on RTV Slovenia than we see at commercial stations - as you wrote in your propaganda programs - when will there be more Chuks, Atomic Harmonics, Young Frails, Kiefelchars, Juhu gangs, Alpine Quintet etc.? When will there be more sports shows where there won't be so much gladiatorism? And so on and so forth. You're the custodian as the minister and the one who takes care of the exercise of the institution's rights. And once again, the law is in force, but the promises you made are not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u75	I thank you for this concern that the law will enter into force as soon as possible and that it will also meet the expectations of taste, regarding the various ensembles you spoke of. I am very happy and I think this will come true when RTV fulfills these things, as the law tells her. In Article 3, you know exactly what it says is part of the public service, including the parliamentary programme. But it is right that you express your concern, along with us, that this will happen as soon as possible. I sincerely hope so. The Ministry of Culture is indeed the custodian of this and, of course, it will be careful and careful that it will not happen as it did when the law of 12 years was not in accordance with the Constitution and yet you are all, so everyone tolerated that it was in disharmony. However, I think that together, with your concern, we will all look forward to this as soon as possible, and I sincerely hope that RTV will and will be alerted in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The coalition contract and the government programme state that the reorganisation of the energy system in Slovenia must be completed as soon as possible, which must become mainly competitive and comparable with foreign suppliers. At the same time, there is a lot of talk and writing about the privatisation of electricity using a new model that even those who talk about know nothing about. Finally, last week, the government also appointed a special privatisation group, which has little sense of customerism, since it also includes the wife of the head of the holding company of the Slovenian Power Plants, which is a monopolist in this area. Thus, even though the electricity market has partially opened up in Slovenia in April 2001 and that we now have an electricity trading company, we do not exceed much more than 5% of the deal on this free market. This only confirms the fact that energy policy makers are mostly involved in other matters, such as staff crossings on the supervisory boards of electricity distributors and electricity producers and their administrations, and less with market liberalisation, reorganisation projects and, above all, effective management. The networking of new cartel networks and the human resources exchange of millions of grants that do not concern anyone, the extortion of brokers for millions of commissions in the purchase and sale of electricity abroad show that we are far from ready for the new rules of the game. Reports of various lobbying, damage, blackmail and similar are a constant of articles in Slovenian media. Let me just illustrate: the newly appointed director of Eles sues Eles for 50 million dollars and in the courtroom for an additional 9 million. Also, this same Eles, who is the director, sues this director with 2.2 billion tolars for allegedly harmful contracts in the distribution of electricity. In short, electricity is obviously a lucrative business, and the question is, for whom? And since you announced some of the moves to liberalise the electricity market at the beginning of this autumn, in September, I ask you: What is the concrete programme and strategy for establishing competition and liberalisation on the Slovenian energy market? Is it true that foreign capital investors favor the establishment of a second pillar at home? What is the role of Eles, ElesGen and the holding company of Slovenian power plants and their administrations?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for this question, which is perfect for these activities, which we are taking in these very months. The fact is that the past period has marked cartel integration, long-standing contracts and in some ways narrow lobbying for people who decide everything. Indeed, this is evidence that the holding was actually the 92% wholesaler of electricity, which, after the 2004 elections and before the start of the new government in December, signed with ElesGen, the supplier of energy from the nuclear power plant, the 5th annual supply contract. In short, all the production held by Holding in its portfolio from all power plants in Slovenia is still combined with a nuclear power plant to create a monopolistic market. This was at a time when your client was also in the government and at that time there were also two-year contracts that were already selling this energy to electricity, and this in some ways also limited the dynamics of government interventions in terms of providing a more liberal electricity market in Slovenia. During this week, we expect the signing of a new contract between ElesGen and the Slovenian Power Plant holding company, which is already harmonised, which will exceed this monopoly contract from almost two years ago, which applies for a period of five years or years ago, which applies for a period of five years. I will propose in November the government's conclusions where a new wholesale electricity provider would be established. This is a tender that will compete with the holding of the Slovenian power plant from the Krško nuclear power plant. This will give us two wholesale electricity suppliers on the domestic market already this year. I would stress the very important fact that ElesGen, as a subsidiary of Elesa, needs to be separated because of this connection with the system operator of the transmission network, which is Eles by its original function, this is said to become not a subsidiary but an independent company and thus a complete separation between the production, trading and function of the system operator of the transmission network is ensured. Unfortunately, the honourable Member, the government in which you were a coalition partner, did not want to do this for the sake of the objectives, because there is a lot of money here, because there is actually a lot of profits to be forged here. This is what we want and will be overcome by the complete separation of market activities from the activities of system operators both in the transmission network and in the distribution network. In this respect, they are also taking place through the electricity distribution companies of the reorganisation in terms of the separation of the business function, the marketing function and the functions of the system operator or the distribution network operator. We therefore think and I am sure that an important part of the strategy is the separation of all three functions. That's the first thing. The second thing is also gradual privatisation, in particular in the part of the Slovenian Power Plant holding company, because the other provider, the second pillar, as you have named it, is actually the owner of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, which by energy law must remain state-owned, so any speculation on the topic of private property entry into the second pillar of another provider from the vine is unreal and here is in fact important and urgent, according to my assessment also for nuclear security, to maintain Slovenian ownership and therefore there is no current entry of any private capital. Privatisation is actually thought first of all in the manufacturing sector, that is to say in companies around the holding company of the Slovenian power plants and at the holding company in the Termoelectrica Trbovlje, Tetol Ljubljana and everywhere where it is possible to enter private capital into recapitalisation with new investments, with new production capacities or with an increase in the efficiency of the current capacity. Privatisation is not meant as a sale, but is meant as an opportunity for new investment for new sources of electricity, for a more efficient, better, quality offer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u81	I thank you for this part of the answer. But I have to say that you haven't completely satisfied me, for two reasons. In the reform proposal, the matter is written down in a slightly different way and is also time-definitioned, I will quote, "review immediately, abandon the concept of the privatisation of electricity distribution so far and determine by the end of the year, according to the end of 2005, further details of the scope and method of privatisation for electricity distribution". End of quote. This is recorded in the reform programme. But it's not that far back, I think in September, when they were with Dr. Contagious's CEO on completely different shores, they were in some kind of conflict about the second pillar, if I remember correctly, and you can read it through the clips. Dr. Zagozhen still advocates at the second pillar also the unloading of the holding company, that some large customers come under the second cap to avoid staying in the holding company, and regarding privatisation, not from the daughter's, but part of the privatisation of the holding company as a whole. If I can even remind you of the personnel crossings, when you told your colleague earlier not to take part in this. On 8.10. this year, you said in an interview: "The Court has fallen to the bottom", so the Minister of "Koroščev relation," which is former director of Eles, "to the competent minister who asked me nothing at the time of Danil Toplak's re-election as directors of the Talum administration." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u83	Dear Member, first of all, I apologize for perhaps a few school hours. You're talking about distributions. Five distribution companies have no connection, and privatisation and provisions under the reform committee on any issues related to the second energy pillar, with the other provider, with the holding of the Slovenian power plant. This is a completely separate part. Distributions are distributions, but electricity production is production. Holding the Slovenian Power Plants and, last but not least, its Director has made it very clear in several forums that he understands the Ministry of Economy's efforts after the liberalisation of the market, which is said to be based on a better supply of electricity to a large extent, according to Slovenia's antitrust efforts, so he does not oppose and support the establishment of another electricity provider. This was said several times by the President of the Management Board of the holding company. In fact, there is no dilemma here, and in fact I am pleased to see such a broad view of society, which today has quite a monopoly in Slovenia. As far as distribution is concerned, the concept of privatisation of distributions was meant here, which is, in fact, a bit too dangerous. Distributions are those companies that supply electricity to each of us and that's why they get cash from us. Privatisation is a very sensitive matter here and is not planned in a short time. Of course, the Advisory Commission, a group appointed by the Government, will also be identified by the end of the year on this issue. As for the Talum personnel case, which is Eles's daughter's company. I would never have objected to the appointment of directors in Talum and in other subsidiaries of electricity companies to extend their term of office if these same directors did not go to the Minister to ask for such and other services when purchasing electricity. In particular, Talum is a company that has always negotiated for itself a lower price of electricity than in some way marketed electricity prices. These were often based in particular on the Minister's political pressure on those monopolistic companies offering electricity, in a particular case holding the Slovenian power plant. Of course, it is difficult to accept that such people are called places in the Slovenian economy, who want some kind of ratings based on political pressures for their society. That was the key to the Talum move.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister Podobnik! I was going to ask the question of the emissary because of two events. One thing is that I read in the newspaper about the joint appearance of the municipalities of Nova Gorica, Dobrova and Ajdovščina in the restoration or construction of the water supply system and then also in the run for co-financing of the state and the EU. Another event that is reversed by the fact that exactly the opposite is happening on the water supply system. This system was built in 50 years, and later it was upgraded. Now some want to divide it by region into individual congregations. The system supplies 6 municipalities and is therefore of national importance. However, the concrete reason why I decided to ask the question of a Member State is that the contractual relationship and formalities regarding management, maintenance, responsibility and ultimately the payment of the costs of operating this system are not formally settled, because of the actions of some which I think are unacceptable. The Ministry of Environment and Space was also informed, and all letters were also sent to the Ministry for information. I will therefore read the question, as it has been sent to you to prepare the answer, and I hope that you have received the relevant information from your colleagues. The water systems of national importance are those that provide multiple municipalities. This is also the blood supply system of the six congregations, which is now connected through the Comanda Congregation with the Kamnik water supply system. In the last two years, there have been changes from two operators to three operators and some informal distribution of the system. One of the operators, a shareholder company, has not even been selected according to the procedures required for the award of such management concessions. The amendment was made without previously signed management contracts, so it is now unclear who is responsible for what and what business and cost obligations are. Despite Warnings [[I'll cut it short.]] I ask for the position and the measures envisaged by the Ministry in order to ensure the uniform optimum, safe and economic functioning of joint water supply systems, which are common to several municipalities and which are therefore of national importance and, as such, must have special protection and support from the State. Mr. Minister, I'm asking for a concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u87	Your Honor! First of all, I am pleased that, as an example of good practice, you mentioned the joint performance of the municipality of Nova Gora and Ajdov in solving substantive, procedural, financial and administrative issues concerning water supply in this region of Slovenia. As Minister, I was one of the initiators, and I promoted such an agreement. Otherwise, your question is about the problem of the bloodstream. Indeed, we are aware of the disagreements that take place between individual managers and the municipalities. These disagreements have been going on for years. It was built in 1964 and operated by Hydrometal Mengeš until 1984. When this company went bankrupt, the water supply management was taken over by the current company Prodnik Domžale. Until 1993, the primary water system was managed by Krvavec as well as the water network in the current municipalities, Vodice, Command and Mengeš, and in the current municipalities of Cerklje, Kranj and Shenčur, the municipal company Kranj. In 1993, the Environmental Protection Act and the Economic Public Services Act were adopted. And here is our first answer to your question: According to the information we have, all the congregations, unfortunately, you have not or have not regulated public services in accordance with the regulations, because they have not aligned ownership and management rights and duties in accordance with the environmental law. This is clear: drinking water supply is a compulsory local public service. The law lays down standards for the performance of the public service and also a methodology for pricing. In the meantime, the Economic Public Services Act has established the manner, form and content of the public service. In 2000, the municipality of Vodice established a direct installation for the operation of the water system in its area. It thus terminated its cooperation with Prodnik. The situation on the water system of Krvavec was not regulated in both management and financial terms, and arrangements were signed between the municipalities of Vodice, Command and Mengeš and the municipality of Kranj and the companies of Prodnik for water supply, maintenance of the system itself and emergency financing of the system. This arrangement was somehow maintained until 2004 and then terminated at the request of the congregation of Crklje. What is our pro-active role now? First time. We invite all municipalities involved in the bloodstream system to first identify the actual state and ownership of the water supply and regulate it in accordance with the regulations. Another time. In order to take appropriate decisions within their territory on the implementation of the compulsory public water supply service and in accordance with the rules of the municipalities, they shall also designate individual water system operators or designate a common operator for a system which is uniformly functionally spatially complete. The Ministry of Environment and Space will once again call in writing for the municipalities that are gravitating on the bloodstream to remove any irregularities identified within two months and to inform our ministry, as well as the government's service for local self-government and public administration. However, all the activities related to the area I run are, of course, also linked to the drinking water supply strategy. In Slovenia, it is just before reception and the aim is to provide the citizen of Slovenia with quality drinking water and sufficient quantity, as well as to protect the potential water sources of drinking water and prepare a rational form of public service delivery, so we propose that the municipalities in question step as soon as possible along the way as you mentioned at the outset, and the route is called an agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u89	Mr Minister, I would ask you to reshape this two-month call, or to confirm yourself in a way that, in fact, the actions of both operators and some municipalities would try to target a solution that has already been, or to seek a new joint manager, by procedure - a call, etc. - or, if the desire is such that the common system breaks down in a way that multiple operators do, that is to say that we are moving backwards, we are separating the system, but that these operators first agree on mutual obligations, responsibilities in management, and that then all municipalities, as co-owners of this common system, will also sign such a common agreement. I must say that only one of the municipalities did not take care of the controller in accordance with the rules. But I'm talking about one controller who wasn't chosen by procedure. Thus, the actual state and ownership of this system is clear from projects and from decades of practice, it will be necessary for the State to act in the way of 'roots and rods' in order to achieve what has been concluded in accordance with the study on the observation of both systems financed by the Ministry of Environment and Space in 1999 and 2000. And none of these conclusions have been made so far, except those carried out by individual congregations. Please take action in this direction as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you. In the additional question or performance of Mr Štebet, I can see that his position is exactly the same as I myself have proposed. This is said, first of all, it is important that the municipalities themselves, in accordance with the competences and obligations laid down in the applicable laws they have, designate either individual water system operators or common to the system. The decision is taken on the part of the congregation. If a mediation role is needed - obviously Gorenska is such a region that she needs a mediator - we will also implement it with the team we have. At the same time, it is necessary to find out, as you wrote in your introduction or in the paper I received on the question that a study on the pooling of water systems, which is already six years old; the findings of this study, when you wrote down, "both the state and the municipalities and its managers did not respect the conclusions proposed by this study". Of course, first the congregation, then their administrators, plays a key role here. The role of the State is, of course, primarily in supervisory form, such as control. At the same time, on the basis of the newly adopted drinking water supply strategy in Slovenia, we will be able to enter into the premises of this agreement of these municipalities and I propose, Mr Member and Mayor, that you also play a proactive role here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you, Minister. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. In public recently, the news was very clear that a patient diagnostic device based on magnetic resonance had finally deteriorated at the Clinical Center in Ljubljana. The malfunction of a 12-year-old apparatus is expected to be such that repair is no longer possible, and the apparatus has already depreciated since its life expectancy is expected to be between 7 and 10 years. And so, of course, it's no coincidence that he's failed several times in recent years. At the Clinical Center there is another such apparatus, also over four years old, and this is also the half-owner of a medical university that uses it for its own purposes. For this reason it is certainly necessary to buy a new one as soon as possible. This has also raised the volume of dust in the public sector, as purchase procedures are to last for one year. In view of the great needs of such diagnostics and the consequent burden of the apparatus - based on magnetic resonance, over 3,000 patients per year have been examined - this is totally unreasonable and unacceptable. Despite some of the announced measures, such as the tour reviews, the relocation of patients to other establishments where they have this apparatus will be substantially extended by such long waiting lines. And it is even worse because it is a very difficult examination, including in very severe diseases, whose treatment performance often depends on timely diagnosis and early onset of treatment. Therefore, such a long period of time does not only mean a lower level of healthcare but also a higher mortality rate for patients. So, Mr. Minister, I'm curious: In what time do you intend to replace a broken machine with a new one? What are you going to do to make this time as short as possible as the experience from the world shows that the purchase and launch of magnetic resonance apparatus should not take more than a few months? And I would like to point out that this is certainly not only your duty and the expectations of patients simply due to reduced mortality, but also due to the fact that you have been warned and informed by the competent authorities of the length of the instrument so far. In view of this and of the fact that we have reminded you during the budget debate of the reduction in funds allocated to investments in hospitals of 2.7 billion, including the provision of equipment, which will certainly not help reduce waiting periods, we estimate that your responsibility is even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u95	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Ambassador! Thank you so much for asking. Of course, a few words need to be said in the introduction, so that there will be no mistakes in interpreting certain developments in the acquisition of apparatus and also in health investments. The question raised here today stems in fact from the mistaken belief that the Ministry of Health and does not deceive itself for the replacement of equipment in public health institutions or in the Ljubljana Clinical Centre. In this regard, not for the first time, he explained something. Public health establishments are independent persons of public law who are financed by payments for the provision of health services mainly on the basis of contracts with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and in small part also from the sale of services on the market. The property and equipment they have at their disposal are, according to the Law on Institutions which is in conformity with the general rules of corporate law, otherwise the property of their founders, state and municipality, but the authorities of institutions are solely responsible for the entire operation, including prudent management of funds. In order to enable them to do so, health service assessments include a dedicated, approximately 6% share to cover the amortisation costs that it introduces together with the revenue generated over expenditure must be used on purpose, that is, for investments and investment maintenance of facilities and equipment. The annual outflows of the Ljubljana Clinic Centre for Amortisation cover more than 3.6 billion tolars and 1/5 of this amount, as well as other institutions, combine in the budget fund under the Public Investment Act, which represents about 15% of all resources for financing investments. With the remainder of this amount, that is 2.9 billion tolars, and the Clinical Center has its own resources, and it also decides on investments and maintenance priorities. It is only justified that he will do so in the procurement of such and other equipment, even the most demanding, such as magnetic resonance. The Ministry of Health, under the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, provides funds for investments in specific investment projects by location, type, scale and dynamics as determined by the plan of the development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. There are 22 projects in the current budget. The way projects are classified in the investment programme is determined by law. Investing in the country is merely a complement to its own investment activities in institutions, aimed primarily at expanding and not restoring existing health infrastructure. Accordingly, only one of 22 projects is dedicated to the intervention procurement of equipment in individual cases where, for objective reasons, these institutions are not able to do so themselves. The Ministry of Health in the Clinical Centre has been carrying out major investment projects for four years. Their total value exceeds 37 billion tolars. These are the construction and equipment of a new neurological clinic worth 6 and a half billion, new clinics for otorinolaryngology and cervix facial surgery, worth 4.4 billion, new paediatric clinics worth 13 and a half billion, new emergency and surgery blocks and a centre for intensive medicine in the DTS facility worth 12.9 billion tolars, while also fully restoring the entire municipal structure of the Clinical Center south of Zaloška road. In addition to ongoing huge investments, it is expected that the founder of the Clinical Centre will also finance the individual purchases that are needed and which are not in the past, which are now being negotiated with the current leadership - after the change of leadership now - and are being realistically negotiated. This will have to be covered by dedicated amortisation funds, because it would be totally out of proportion with facts, competences and responsibilities, and it would also be at the expense of a much smaller amount of investment in the original other hospitals if the ministry were still managing certain things at the Clinical Centre. As I mentioned, this is a matter of agreement and we will come to conclusions in a short time. However, the Ministry had already responded positively this spring to the demand of the management of the Clinical Centre and confirmed its readiness to co-finance the acquisition of a replacement imaging device from the multi-public health care facility project and then, in the next 2 months, practically from the Clinical Centre, there was no adequate written confirmation. With the change of management at the Clinical Center, we have again agreed that we will also review some possibilities for co-investing in the acquisition of a new magnetic resonance apparatus in this regard. I have some things to answer at the beginning, questions that have also been asked here. My responsibility is to shorten the waiting hours. And waiting periods in Slovenia - this is not only about some of the announced measures, but it is about measures that are already under way and that are already significantly reducing waiting times, including magnetic resonance checks. That's what I'm talking about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Slavinac, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for the legal instruction from which I remembered, above all, that enlargement is a matter of the ministry, the expansion of infrastructure. I would like to point out that we have 8 of these machines, which means one per 250,000 inhabitants, for example, in neighbouring Austria is one per 80,000. So it's certainly important to think about enlargement and it's a matter of the ministry. That made it hard to get rid of the feeling that you wanted to take responsibility for the Clinical Center, and you've already been alerted to the length of the apparatus. My question was not so much about funding - of course it was also because we had warned about this part of the budget - but how long it would take to wait for the new apparatus. Here is the first concern for patients, because I would like to remind them of the Work since 9.9.2005, where it is stated that in less than a month or immediate access by new year, i.e. from 1.1.2006, diagnostic investigations with magnetic resonance and computer tomographers will be possible, which has to wait for two years, fourteen months on average. As a result, many expect a concrete answer to the specific question: When will a new magnetic resonance apparatus be available at the Clinical Center? And: When will the hard-to-see forecast that we all want to have less than a month of waiting times as foretold in Del on 9 September be fulfilled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much for this additional question. As far as waiting periods for magnetic resonance are concerned, they are reduced in Slovenia. The programme, which was drawn up in August, is being implemented and will be implemented in the expected format and envisaged to reduce the waiting period at least by the end of February of next year. Of course, there is a particular problem with what you are exposing here today, which is the acquisition of this equipment at the Clinical Center, which did not occur nine or ten months ago, but it did. This equipment has been worn out significantly before. During this year, as I mentioned before, at the beginning of the year, we agreed that the Ministry, outside the programme that has already been published and has already been adopted, would grant 100 million more tolls for the investments of the Clinic Centre for the purchase of this apparatus. As I said, the previous management of the Clinic later did not come into contact with us, but we are in contact with the current leadership that we will eventually realize this possibility, although these resources are currently not foreseen and will need to be taken elsewhere, where they have already been allocated, but perhaps they do not need them at this point - for any reason for deferral. But there's something else I have to say. The problem created by waiting times in Slovenia, for example, in the case of magnetic resonance, is not due to the lack of apparatus, but due to the lack of money for the programme, for the implementation of the magnetic resonance programme. That's a completely different problem. It is not a problem - today many of the privates would peacefully buy magnetic resonance, but it needs something: it needs a program to get 2,000 investigations a year and it can become viable. There's no problem. Once again, it is not a problem of apparatus; the problem is a programme for carrying out some activity, such as a magnetic resonance check in this case. I agree with you that at the Ministry of Health it will be necessary to do everything possible to make an example of the Clinical Center, which is here a special problem, but it has been dragging for at least four years in connection with this magnetic resonance - I have worked there for a long time and I know what it looked like - and the previous ministry has done nothing. At the very beginning of this situation, we have already practically taken the first step by talking with the Clinical Centre to allocate these additional 100 million tolls for the purchase of magnetic resonance, and we will do so in the future, as we have already agreed with the management of the Clinical Center. I hope that we will make this happen as soon as possible, about the exact months, and I will not tell you about this moment, but the waiting time for the magnetic resonance in Slovenia is significantly shorter than it was a year ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bevk alone will raise the question of a letter to the Minister without a licence and to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In October, we listened to the government in the National Assembly and left the decision on the number of cohesion regions to it when considering the law on more coherent regional development. We believe that it will be able to adapt in such a timely manner to the unpredictable circumstances of the adoption of the European Union budget for the 2007/2013 period. It has not been a month since the government surprised us with a decision on two cohesion regions in the developed Western and underdeveloped eastern region to be eligible for funding from the cohesion funds of the European Union. I can't help but feel that the government was trying to avoid a controversial debate in the National Assembly. If we had succeeded in negotiating three regions, additional development resources from the European Union budget would also have been eligible for Primorska and Gorenjska. Three cohesion regions would bring us as much as 100 billion tolars of more development resources from the European Union budget. How the government will replace these funds from the state budget is already a major issue, as it will first have to provide its share of the funds for projects to be allocated from the EU to the eastern region. In addition, the government has promised the so-called third development path or axis. Transport Minister Mag. Janez Bozič also spoke about the fourth, the North Sea and the mountain development axis from Bovec through Tolmin and Idrija and the Cerkne do Škofje Loka. At the same time, he forgot the connection from Idria to Logatco to the highway cross. The fourth development axis is our requirement, which should also include the connection of Idria to the Slovenian highway cross. 700 billion dollars for the modernisation of the state road network, a programme to reach the parliamentary debate by the end of this year in the National Assembly, must not overtake the link between Idria and the highway in Logatco. This is also reflected in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia adopted last year and in the first draft programme for the modernisation of the state road network, the Ministry of Transport 2004. Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of Mr Ivan Žagar and Minister of Transport Mag. I ask Janez Bozič: How will the government compensate for the loss of funds from the European Union funds for the development of the Western region, in particular for the development of Primorska and Gorenjska? Ter: How will they meet the fourth development axis requirement in terms of modernisation of transport infrastructure, development of tourism and other infrastructure and environmental projects in this part of Slovenia? I thank both ministers very much for their answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Both ministers have a total of five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you for asking. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members. I would like to begin by explaining this decision first. In fact, as you have already found out, this National Assembly has left the decision on cohesion regions to the government, which, of course, not only gave it competence but also gave it responsibility. With regard to these decisions, I must say that this decision is linked to two aspects. The first aspect is closely linked to the negotiations, as you have already mentioned, in view of the uncertainty of the conclusion of the negotiations, of course we all wanted the negotiations on the next financial perspective to be concluded under Luxembourg, but unfortunately they are not, although the negotiating points were very close, the conclusion of the negotiations is also, of course, questionable. Slovenia has a particular problem here, which is at the limit of this 75% gross product, which discusses whether it is still eligible as a whole for cohesion funds or not. At this point, of course, data, when Slovenia is still fully entitled to these funds, are frozen below 75%, but the more the negotiations are, of course, moving to the future, the more this danger or the following data, which already apply for the next period, is that Slovenia as a whole exceeds this 75% of the gross product. This could happen, of course, in the blackest scenario, to question the substantial number of funds that you have been talking about, from the heading of cohesion policy, although it is, of course, impossible to talk about any numbers at this time, because we do not have any financial package on the table at this time, because the Luxembourg proposal is no longer available. That is why the government has decided to take this decision and, of course, has also forwarded it to the European Commission. In the event that this most unfavourable scenario occurs, then, for example, a territorial extension or an acceptable proposal in the decision-making procedure could significantly strengthen Slovenia's position in the exercise of an acceptable financial allocation. However, this does not mean, of course, that the financial allocation will depend only on this moment, depending on the many other developments that will naturally arise in the negotiations. The assessment of whether or not Slovenia has been successful in these negotiations is, of course, only possible compared to comparable other countries. Slovenia has therefore decided that, in the event that negotiations are really complicated, much should be postponed in the future, then it is trying to improve its negotiating position. However, the second aspect is also important or even more important – this is an aspect of coherent regional development. Indeed, through this point of view, we find, of course, that the funds are not also used for structural funds where they are actually the most needed or where they are the greatest needs. Of course, with the systemic shift and systemic allocation of funds in these areas - including what you have mentioned - this coherent regional development will be able to accelerate and these differences will, hopefully, start to actually decrease. Now, as for the provision of funds. As long as negotiations are concluded that Slovenia will remain as one cohesion region, which at this point is, this decision has a function only for implementation. It is said that this systemic definition of resources in these areas where they are most needed. However, to the extent that this most vague scenario would indeed have taken place hypothetically, and in this case, for the first time, it is not true that the second part will not be eligible for cohesion policy funds either. In fact, the cohesion fund will be eligible for the whole of Slovenia and the cohesion fund is, for example, dedicated to transport infrastructure, including part of the structural funds, and the outflow will have to be replaced by its own resources. And of course, if there's more of that, it'll be so much easier to do. There could be the blackest scenario, and a lot of it would get lost. In this case, of course, we would have no way of replacing these funds for these parts. The basis for this is the adopted law on coherent regional development, which defines the funds earmarked for these areas and, of course, they will also have to be provided in the national budget each year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you. Minister Christmas, available time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and a lovely evening for all Members and Members. I've got a few seconds left, but I'm gonna try and tell you for a while anyway. Already in June this year, the Ministry of Transport has drawn up a priority investment order to be co-financed by European funds and cohesion fund funds. Both focus on investment in transport infrastructure, which lies on European transport corridors. It is therefore not possible to obtain funding from these funds for co-financing of state roads. So, I hope that I will be able to extend this answer further.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you. Comrade Bevk, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much. It was your colleague, Mr Jagar, who spent all his time at the disposal of the first answer. That's why my extra question. I would like to ask you to say a little more about this fourth development axis, which somehow concerns the northern Primorske and the part of Gorenjska, and how you will provide the means to realise this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you. Minister Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much for the additional opportunity to continue. Therefore, funding for co-financing of state roads can only be obtained from the European Union's Structural Funds, provided that a specific priority for the development of state transport infrastructure will be established in Slovenia for the next financial perspective from 2007 and 2013. On this basis, the draft national programme for the development and maintenance of state roads prepared by our Ministry of Transport also includes a package of ten projects planned for co-financing from the European Regional Development Fund in the next financial perspective and therefore has a very high priority in the programme. There are also updates to road links among these projects. In particular: Jeprca-Zminec-Želin, Želen-Peršeti-Kobarid-Robič, Kranjska Gora-Bovec and Hrušica-Rateča, the southern rim of Bled and the construction of some cycling links on the mountain and north coast regions. The above road links also provide for the construction of five bypasses, the first is the southern Bleda Oblast, the Škopheloško obržnica, the Obradnica in Gorenja village and the western and eastern suburbs in Kobarid. Among the major measures are the new construction at the Trebia - Cerkno section, 13.5 km long, reconstruction of the road at several sections at a total length of about 20 km and investment maintenance measures at 44 km of road, other smaller measures such as cross-border arrangements and reconstruction of buildings. This link, as you mentioned, Idrija to the highway, on Logatec will certainly be checked in this case in the study variants. If there are conditions for this, it will also be designed as a proposal for only classification in this line of the fourth development axis. Thus, the estimated value of the planned modernisation of road links will be around 39 billion tolars or around 160 million euros. We also want to implement this fourth development axis around the national programme for the renewal or modernisation of the state road network. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you. The next on the list of question-makers is Mrs Maria Pozsonec, a fellow Member. Here you go. The question will be raised by the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I am asking the following question to the Minister of the Interior, Dragutin Mate. How did Croatian fishermen cross the border of Petišovci bring live fish and leave them at the borders of our cathedral? Let me also mention that the vehicle was from a donor environment where they said they found a sick swan who was supposed to be infected with a bird flu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you. Minister Dragitum Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you for asking. First of all, fish and swans have nothing to do with bird flu, so it can't be transmitted through fish. Otherwise, around the border crossing 24. 10. I must say that two Croatian citizens arrived at the Petišovci border crossing at 3 p.m., where police carried out normal border checks, examination of travel documents, and checked if there were any other reservations to enter Slovenia. It was found that they met all the conditions for entry into Slovenia and therefore allowed them to enter Slovenia. It was also found that the cargo car was carrying a tank containing fish cubs. When they found out whose property they were, it was clear that these chicks were owned by the Mura Sports Fishing Company from the Mursko Centre and were intended to be brought to the Mali Balaton pond, which is approximately 1 km from the border arrival of Petišovci and is located in the cadastral region of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Customs Law and Article 3 of the Customs Service Law, only the customs authority has the right to control such a transition or to exercise customs control and the police have no right to carry out customs controls and no control of that work has been carried out. Transit through the Republic of Slovenia in the transport of fish cubs is in accordance with Article 46 of the so-called SOPS agreement on small-border transport and cooperation. This provision obliges both States to allow economic operators free access to the border area of the other Contracting Party across their border area wherever the transport infrastructure does not allow access to that area within the territory of the Contracting Party. In accordance with Article 53 of the SOPS, the State must mutually facilitate the management of fishing organisations in the border area as well as in the rearing of fish. For this purpose, there was no infringement of the rules and it was found that those Croatian citizens left the Republic of Slovenia on the same road at 2.45 p.m. on the same day. In the case of a detailed verification of the circumstances of the transport of fish through the border crossing of Petišovci and transit of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, we have found that the conditions of Article 46 of SOPS have been met for transport, but for the crossing of the state border outside the border crossing point, as was the case in this case, in the case of the border transit of the Slovenian territory, the sport company Mura from the Mursko Centre should specifically request a mixed commission for the implementation of SOPS for authorisation, and this Commission would then issue an appropriate decision. In this case, no such decision has been taken. The police administration which controls this area has been particularly alerted to this irregularity and will no longer make such transits through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the future if there are no relevant conclusions. However, if the conclusions are issued, we are somehow obliged to allow such transport, in accordance with the international treaties which we have signed and ratified in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u114	Minister, thank you. Ambassador Possonchev, further question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your answer. The inhabitants of that environment are not of that opinion, and I think it was the only opportunity they had to take into account SOPS — or we did not. Not even when the armed police are walking around our villages. Plus, someone should be monitoring this cargo from the border crossing to the target, because they could take him anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you. Minister, answer the supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thanks for the extra question. The Agreement, SOPS, provides very precisely how transit takes place through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We also have specific agreements and agreements that have been ratified, which speak of what you mentioned, that Croatian police officers are transiting the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to reach the point where they are then doing their job. During approximately a one-year period since the movement of Croatian police officers through Slovenian territory, this agreement has been carried out, and at that time we have recorded a violation where Croatian police officers did not fully comply with this agreement. Otherwise, it is the journey of Croatian patrols from the entry point of the border crossing to the point of the second border crossing where access to this point is not possible in accordance with the agreement ratified in this national assembly. Accordingly, we allow these transits and at the same time the Republic of Croatia allows Slovenian police officers to transit in a similar way to areas that are cadastral in the Slovenian belt and cannot be reached through Croatian territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you for the additional answer. We are moving on to the question of Member Aleš Gulič, addressed to the Minister for Culture. Here you go, buddy Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u119	Dear President! Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! I will not ask long, I will stick to what you have also written as a question, so that the answer will also be in line with the question. The government has adopted a reform proposal and among them is a proposal to introduce a single tax rate. Some former members of the Reform Committee have repeatedly expressed clearly and publicly how they feel about culture in general, some have talked about how "culture kills", others say that cultures are "holy cows" and that they are protected as they have lived in museums. However, the Ministry of Culture, at least as far as I am aware, has so far not been clear as to the question of the introduction of a single tax rate. That is why I am interested, Mr Minister: What are the results of the expert analyses of the consequences of implementing reforms to increase the welfare of Slovenia in the field of culture? So, how will this be known in culture? And: How will the effects of tax burdens on companies, public institutions and other cultural organisations be neutralized? Please, that's nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you for asking. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u121	Mr. Chairman! Thank you very much to the Member for the question and for the concern for the development of culture, which, among other things, is the possible introduction of a single tax rate, therefore, the situation is new if this new tax rate were to be introduced. At the Ministry of Culture, of course, we are aware of the importance of this issue and, in this regard, the Ministry of Culture has ordered the production of several studies, whose common objective is to show the financial implications that the possible introduction of a single tax rate would have on individual cultural target groups in Slovenia. On the basis of empirical and comparative analysis, we hope that potential advantages will be identified, of course, and traps for the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the area of culture will also be imposed. And I believe that appropriate measures will also be proposed. Unfortunately, the final results of all the research have not yet been received, and I think it is premature that, on the basis of some of the partial analyses that we have received, it has given some definitive and clear conclusions or taken these conclusions, or it has been, perhaps, some suggestions on how we will deal with this issue. However, it can be said that any transfer of tax burdens between beneficiaries of different types of income affects the costs of business and other entities, and if a single tax rate is introduced, the tax burden would be distributed or redistributed entirely to a new one. As for the cultural field, as with any change in the system, it will also appear here that in some areas the imposition of tax burdens would probably be reduced, while elsewhere and for other persons involved in culture, it will increase compared to the system we now have. However, when we receive all the results of the research, we will try to make positive use of these results. Of course, we are aware that culture is for society and civilization, if you want in the broader sense of the word, something like the immune system for the human body. We will certainly try to insist on the concept that it is necessary to protect the creators primarily by means of relief or by increasing the resources that culture should receive to its specific and special position, which it has within each nation, if you will. We are therefore preparing analyses that we will get in time, and I hope that we will also make good use of them in the interests of culture. I think it is now a reform project that will be discussed and attributed in advance, as we can already read, to measures that are not in fact yet - and the question, in what form they will also be - that they will be attributed to catastrophic effects as we can - as I said - we are reading in many ways already, it seems to me that it is premature and also greatly exaggerated. So far, the government's decision has been taken since 3 November 2005, because culture in particular in this reform proposal has not been overtaken and has not received a special place, but not because it would not be worth it, but because it is focused in a different direction. For the time being, this decision by 3.11. that all activities, I quote, "in all government departments aimed at achieving the objectives of the development strategy of Slovenia and which are not directly mentioned in the context of reforms" - all of these activities - "are normally carried out in accordance with the development strategy of Slovenia and the normative programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." So, so far, there's nothing wrong with it, you'd say, or something that would have a negative effect. Even on the basis of no parameters we can say this, for now it remains as it is, we will certainly make sure that these analyses come into hand in time and, as I said, we will try to use them positively in favour of Slovenian culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you. Comrade Gulic, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u123	Mr. Minister, now you're talking about the analysis being done in time. If I recall correctly, a similar question was raised at one of the previous sessions and it was said that these analyses would be carried out by mid-November. He's been in the middle for six days now, or five days, so I won't be too fluent, and he hasn't. So it would be hard to talk about this timing. But something else interests me more: Is it, say, at least on the basis of these partial results already clear or is it not clear that any additional measures will need to be taken to mitigate the effects of the single tax rate, such as increasing subsidies for culture? Because even though you say "all sorts" write, of course I don't believe any of it, which it says, like you do, what it says. The publishers, for example, are moaning that the publishing industry will completely collapse; even if it does not, there will certainly be problems. So, I'm wondering, are you already thinking about any additional measures that might mitigate these things if they happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you. Minister, I'm asking for an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, with regard to the analyses that you were talking about, that it should be said at one of the previous meetings, that they will be until mid-November - I forgive myself, but I don't remember what they would say by November, I think it was by the end of the year, but it's not about the issues you're asking, so it's about reforms, but it's about the 2004 report, which comes from the National Programme for Culture and the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. So this was about this, but not with these analyses, because we couldn't promise anything about these analyses, which has not even been adopted by the government - so these reform measures. With regard to the partial results, I must say that it would be very difficult, or it would be unfair, to speak some information that might prove to be different. They must, of course, be obtained from different angles, compared with one another, looked at what is best, and, on this basis, decided what position and what measures to propose to the government. You were talking about publishing. I must say that a lot of things are spreading very quickly in other areas as well. In other areas too, sentences or demonstrations are forecasting, which I think may not be appropriate, because it has not actually happened yet. And in fact, those who want to manifest it do not have or have not yet shown it and are manifesting their dissatisfaction, which does not seem to me to be the most agreeable and more political than anything else. As far as publishing is concerned, I would say: in general, only that I, as Minister of Culture, am interested in the need to protect the field of fiction, humanities and sociology in the field of the book. And I will do my best to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you for your answer, Minister. The question of Member Boštjan Zagorec, addressed to the Minister for Environment and Space, follows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Dear Minister Podobnik, I know that my stated question has been raised in a very general manner and I believe that you have also prepared such an answer for me at this meeting, but to clarify the problem that has arisen, I would ask you if you could still answer me or answer me in writing later. I believe that your ministry in Maribor has its own exposure, I also believe that it has inspection services in Maribor, although recently in Maribor very interesting things have been happening in the field of environmental protection, especially interesting for your inspection services. The first such matter occurred when the city’s municipality, on the basis of a decree or on the basis of which it reclassified or recategorised a particular land in public, was not aware of it, even though it was private property after the publication of the land book without informing the owners. As for the particular case that I would like to ask you about, one of the foreign investors' wishes is to build a large shopping centre in Maribor, which in Maribor has not been so rare lately, given that they are being built here and there. It is rare for this foreign investor - specifically Lidl - to want to build this shopping centre in the water protection area. It is an area we call Maribor the Vrbane Plata, from which the city council of the Municipality of Maribor from a time ago, has driven out of this area gardeners who are supposed to be potential candidates for polluting this water source. The next thing that's very strange about this is that the planning or design of this project was given to someone who was closely associated with one of the municipal officials, because, in my opinion, it wasn't even the cheapest at the invitation, but if it wasn't the cheapest, it's certainly the most useful, because through one of the municipal officials, the permits and attempts of the decrees and the laws are the fastest to be done. I would therefore like you to check the likelihood of such construction in a water-protected area in Maribor in your inspection services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you for an interesting question. However, I ask the Minister for a concrete answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question to the Member of Parliament. First of all, we can see that the intensity of building shopping centres across Slovenian towns and cities is extremely high, and this intensity in recent months and last year is by no means representative, we hear about new and new investment plans. But as you yourself have already said in your question, you have essentially asked me a fundamental question, namely: How is it possible that large foreign trading chains, which according to the so-called opening of the Slovenian market enter the Republic of Slovenia, can in our country obtain building permits in water protection areas? Then you touched on the situation in Maribor more specifically in your question, and you probably also thought of the exhibitions of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. But to your principled question, which is important, the next answer. Both domestic and foreign investors are subject to the same conditions for issuing building permits. They are determined by the building law. If the intended construction is located in a water protection area, then in accordance with Article of the Water Act, no. 150 has this article, needs water consent. It shall be issued by the Environmental Protection Agency of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The process of issuing this consent shall identify the effects of the construction of the building and the implementation of the works on the water regime and on the condition of the water body. However, measures, prohibitions and restrictions shall also be laid down in the act in which the water protection area is laid down, and it shall then be subject to the question whether construction in a specific water protection area, in this case in the vicinity or in the suburb of Maribor, is even permissible. Of course, first-degree building permits are issued by administrative units, and the Ministry of Environment and Space has only instant control over the building permits issued. And now for water protection areas. These are divided into areas with different regimes. The degree of protection determined on the basis of the time at which potential pollution can occur to a protected source, which depends mainly on the geological composition of the soil. For each water protection area, as has already been said, the conditions and restrictions of construction are laid down and are also set out in the decrees on the water protection areas of municipalities or in the regulations on water protection areas to be adopted by the Government or which will still have to be adopted by the Government. On the basis of these regulations and regulations, the Environmental Protection Agency of the Republic of Slovenia also operates. Your specific question, which is related to the recategification of land, if I have understood correctly today, also for the responsibility in the operation of certain decisions belonging to the municipality of Maribor, of course, if they are within our jurisdiction, we will answer you further in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u130	My friend Zagorac's supplementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, chairman. Perhaps it will be easier for you or that you will answer me in writing as much as possible, I must tell you that, as far as the project in the water protection area we are talking about is concerned, the construction of the shopping centre is concerned, I must tell you that the preparation for this project or the project itself is already under way, even though there are no suitable permits yet, and that someone is probably also considering that the law and the decree should be circumvented. As far as the decision on the water protection area is concerned, for a specific area in Maribor it is stipulated that shops can be built up to 200 square meters, it is said, one small apartment, for which, according to my view, a foreign investor such as Lidl, of course, is not interested. However, I thank you in advance for a concrete written reply and I expect it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u132	Minister Podobnik, would you like to further explain the Ministry's position on the pressing issue?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u133	Only once more, if I may say that, on the basis of the information received today, we will prepare a concrete written answer to the Member's question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thanks for the answer. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Horvat, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is justifiably absent today, and the Minister for Economy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! In some cases, there has been some lack of coordination in the foreign policy of the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the one hand, and the President of the Republic, on the other hand, in particular some initiatives on Kosovo and statements by the President of the Republic on the arbitration of the border with Croatia. In all parliamentary systems, the Head of State is legally and politically irresponsible. If the President of the Republic is not politically accountable to the National Assembly, this does not mean that the areas of his activities are not covered by political responsibility at all. The political responsibility for the work of the entire executive branch of power, and thus the President of the Republic in the parliamentary system, is normally assumed by the government. The functioning of the executive branch of government within the country and even more in international relations must be uniform and coordinated, with the President of the Republic being the one to follow the political direction of the Government. Our organisation of the Institute of the President of the Republic follows in principle the fundamental characteristics of the parliamentary system. The President of the Republic has relatively weak, too difficult protocol functions. We all know well, especially those who have worked for at least some time in the economy, how difficult it is for an economic association to stand on a foreign market. I am thinking of Slovenian companies that, after the establishment of relative peace in the Balkans, are making great efforts to consolidate their economic positions, specifically in the country of Serbia and Montenegro. I am very concerned that the views of the President of the country, Dr Janez Drnovska, regarding the resolution of the Kosovo issue have not been aligned with the Slovenian Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that, as such, they may also have an impact on extremely negative turbulence in economic relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Serbia and Montenegro. It is already clear from the media that the economic relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Serbia and Montenegro have waned. I am interested, Mr Minister: How does the Ministry of Economy see the impact of the uncoordinated Slovenian foreign policy on economic relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Serbia and Montenegro? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you for the questions. I ask the Minister of Vision for an answer to that part of the question which was linked to the economic situation of Slovenian companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Sure. Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Your Honor! Political decisions have no doubt an impact on economic developments. Good political relations between countries are also at the heart of good bilateral economic relations. Last time I felt this on my last visit to Belgrade, when I met with six ministers, both the Serbian government and the government of the state community, and I must assess that these relations were very good. On the basis of these events, we can expect isolated cases of negative reactions to the Slovenian President's position on Kosovo status regulation in the short term, not least some such reactions have already been expressed through the media. However, I do not think that these will affect the strategic position of Slovenia in the Serbian economy, not in the medium and not in the long term. In recent years, the Slovenian economy has anchored very well on the Serbian-Montenegro market, and in market research, Slovenian goods in Serbia and Montenegro are still placed very high in the perception of buyers, in the perception of people of the economy. Slovenia's presence in Serbia and Montenegro is also increasing in the field of investment. Only in the Republic of Serbia are registered between 350 and 400 companies where Slovenian capital is engaged. Of course, this number is increasing. A very good example of this economic cooperation is the economic club of Slovenian and Serbian and Montenegrin economists, where, in fact, links to further cooperation are sought. Slovenia is a leading foreign investor according to the number of investments. In Serbia, not only statistics confirm this role, but also the highest government representatives of Serbia and Montenegro recognise the status mentioned. However, it is very important that we do not lose our reputation and that is why the political views on sensitive issues in Serbia and Montenegro - which is also undoubtedly the position of the President of the country on Kosovo's status - are very, very important. As before, the Ministry of Economy will carefully examine, for example, each case of an anomaly from a good relationship, such as the discriminatory treatment of Slovenian economists, and in accordance with our competences, the appropriate action will be taken. However, once again, I stress that I am assessing that this will happen and that it will be more isolated cases, but that these concrete activities will not have some medium- and long-term effects. However, we must also avoid future situations, particularly those that needlessly provoke both consumers and, lastly, the economy in these countries, because this can be sooner to the detriment of our economy than it is to the benefit of our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you. Complementary question. Here you go. You're giving up. The next question will be posed by the mag. Borut Saiovic is intended for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is absent. That is why I ask you from this place, you will still ask the question and insist on a written answer or you want an answer to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Despite the absence of the Minister, I will of course raise the question, and at the next meeting, I expect the Minister's oral answer, which, of course, can also be completed. My question is this: The bird flu is a serious international problem, very important, but far from being in breach of basic democratic standards by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, Noah’s pressing his head into the sand does not solve the problem. A frank and critical word, although not everyone likes, can lead to a solution to the problem that is common to us. And that was my purpose in this area, because we were recently able to monitor in the media, nicely said, the unusual conduct of some representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the event of the communication of his staff with the media. This is the case with the former Director of Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the expert in epidemiology and microbiology of mags. Zoran Kovac. He is employed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. After reporting to the media, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through a representative for public relations, is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, after being a mag. The blacksmith for some media gave his personal opinion on the operation and unimplemented VURS measures in the event of preventing the spread of the so-called bird flu virus in Slovenia, prohibited communication with the media in Slovenia. Mag. Kovač commented on the activities of VURS after it was unequivocally confirmed that the dead swans in Croatia were actually infected with a dangerous H5N1 virus, thereby significantly increasing the risk of virus introduction into Slovenia. Of course, then the controversy developed in Slovenia. And after the Youth Magnificent Week. For the first time, Kovača asked for an interview on this subject, we were able to learn that he was explicitly asked by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not to make statements about this topic in Slovenia if other institutions were present. Dear Minister, I ask you: Who at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has decided to prohibit your employee from communicating with Slovenian media? What are the reasons for such an unacceptable decision, contrary to at least two articles of the Constitution, both Article 29 and Article 40? In the background, however, it seems to me that there may be a renewed attempt by government to silence respected and highly qualified experts on certain issues, whose opinions may make an important contribution to improving the functioning of individual state institutions, in a particular case of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you for asking. You will receive an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The following question is raised by Mr Matjaž Han, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, respectable colleagues! The problem of the material injuries of World War II has been lingering for quite some time. No government has shown an excessive interest to deal with the problem in its entirety and to draw up appropriate solutions. In doing so, I am referring to solutions that would be acceptable to the country within its material capacity and would also satisfy the victims. Material damages are organised in several societies through which they alert the government, especially the Ministry of Justice, to their problem. It is a matter of damage to private property during World War II by the occupying party. The largest part of the damaged and destroyed property is housing facilities and accompanying rural economic buildings. The assessment of the level of damage has constantly changed or decreased since each of the Commission’s next census has used stricter and more precise criteria. In order to ensure the speeding up of procedures and decisions on claims under the law on the correction of the offence and to be definitively defined in respect of the recovery of damage to material injury victims, the Government's reports adopted by the National Assembly in October this year on the consideration of the Ombudsman's report. We have also been alerting the question of the material injuries of World War II in the Social Democrats' Group of Members for years. According to the information I have, a special inter-resortment group of the government has already been established for the issue of material war damage, so I wonder: How far has the Commission come with its work? Is the Ministry of Justice already dealing with this issue, and what are the results of its work so far? Finally: When can we expect concrete legislative proposals related to resolving this issue and what will be their framework content? Please let the Minister answer my question at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u142	Mr Han, in view of the fact that Minister Šturm has left the meeting, you will be given the same result as the Members before you in the event of the absence of a minister. The following question is raised by Mr Branko Marinič, Minister for Education and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Kindergarten Act regulates preschool education provided by public and private schools. The basic tasks of kindergartens are to help parents to take full care of their children, to improve the quality of life of families and children, and to create conditions for the development of children's physical and mental abilities. Education in kindergartens is an integral and very important part of the system of education and education, which is carried out in accordance with different principles, including the principle of the right to choose and to differ. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Kindergarten Act, parents have the right to choose pre-school education programmes for their children in public and private kindergartens in accordance with the objectives of pre-school education. Programmes for pre-school children carried out by public kindergartens shall be adopted by the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for General Education, which shall include the name of the programme, professional starting points, educational areas and objectives, and ways and forms of cooperation with parents. In private kindergarten, in accordance with the creation act, the programme for pre-school education shall be laid down by the founder or the competent authority of the kindergarten, and shall obtain a positive opinion from the Slovenian Professional Council for General Education on the adequacy of the programme prior to the start of the programme. Where a private kindergarten implements a training programme in accordance with specific pedagogical principles to give the expert council a positive opinion when it finds that the programme has been recognised by an appropriate international association. In public education, programmes of education programmes are not implemented in accordance with specific pedagogical principles, despite the right to choose programmes. On the basis of the above, I ask the following question: What are the possibilities for public education programmes to be carried out in accordance with specific pedagogical principles? Another time. Is the Ministry of Education and Sport preparing or carrying out any activities in the field of preschool education in respect of education programmes in accordance with specific teaching principles? Thanks in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you for asking. I'm asking the Minister of the Beast for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The MPs, the MPs. Thank you for asking me that question. Therefore, the legal basis stated by Mr Branko Marinič indeed stipulates that public institutions, public kindergartens implement the pre-school education programme that he has previously adopted, has been endorsed by the Slovenian Council of Experts for General Education. Private kindergartens may, however, implement programmes designated by the founder or the competent authority of the kindergarten, with the possibility to choose educational programmes that are carried out in accordance with these specific teaching principles, such as Waldorf, Montessori, Steiner and the like. We already have some such kindergartens that implement these programmes in accordance with these special educational principles, especially Montessori and Waldorf kindergartens, but the question is whether this offer is acceptable. Thus, public kindergartens are awarded on the basis of a curriculum adopted for kindergartens in 1999. So, kuriculum is a broader document that is more of a normative nature and a basis for the functioning of public kindergartens. Of course, we also need to separate from this general normative work the actual or implementing curriculum that allows the use of a series of didactic new procedures, including the generally applicable curriculum for kindergartens, which cannot fully prescribe all implementation procedures for kindergarten education. I am convinced that even now and that the future opening of this curriculum will also allow for the introduction of individual elements of these specific pedagogical principles and practices in public kindergartens. In what way will we introduce this, of course, is another question. One way might also be to establish model kindergartens as model schools, where, by the way, they would be able to evaluate accurately, monitor education in such schools or kindergartens. On the other hand, within the framework of the existing curriculum, these elements of the programmes should be introduced in accordance with these specific pedagogical principles. I am sure, and this is our common desire that the offer of preschool education be as varied as possible, as written in public kindergarten as possible, not just in private. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you. The following question will be raised by Mr Srečko Friend to the Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Back in 2001, you, the distinguished Minister of the Environment, or the then minister, were approached by nine local communities with a request and a question of why Kemplas in Cyprus can operate despite data on harmful releases and in fact, even though they can uncontrolledly release technical water without a cleaning plant and actually pollute the environment, including dangerous gases, not to mention the deaths of fish that occurred. We record fish deaths three times in this environment. The fact is that you are yourself, the environmental ministry has published the results of the measurements, and everyone who has done them in Kemplas has come to the conclusion that the actual results are essentially harmful and that formaldehyde is released into the air, which is essentially also a carcinogen gas and, of course, unpolluted water flowing down the river into the sea. Dear Minister, I ask you: Why is there no action in accordance with the law? Why does this factory definitely not close or force itself to install or establish a technical state at such a level that actual production will no longer endanger the environment? Otherwise, the owner, Mr Kadič, claims that he has bought thousands of hectares of land in Hungary and that he wants to move this existing technology to Hungary, and I don't know who will allow him to set up such a lack of technologically lacking chemical processing. So please: Is it possible that we can be tolerant of this factory, which threatens 15 villages and actually a wider area? I'd like to ask you for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you very much for the question to the Member of Parliament. On the issue of Kemiplas, as Minister this summer, I proposed and established a special expert council, which had a key task of examining the possibility of moving the company's location to a new location. Since then, seven regular meetings have been convened. During this time, the professional council has processed many professional materials, in addition to financial problems or how loans would be obtained, the variants are more, and it has also addressed other aspects of resettlement. One aspect is technological, the other is economic, very important is social - last week I received an open letter from a group of employees in Kemiplas, and they also want to be part of this section - as well as legal aspects. Several scenarios of this move have been developed. The expert board also requested that the transparency of reporting, not only for Kemplas, be strengthened, but also for adjacent plants operating nearby. The result was that the first measurements were carried out by the European Commissioner. These measurements have shown that Kemplas currently pollutes significantly less than European and Slovenian standards. In addition, the Council of Experts dealt with other aspects of restructuring this activity at the site of Bivje 2 as requested by both the Municipality of Koper and the Civil Initiative itself. The Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and the Environment Inspectorate also cooperated with the Ministry. With regard to the legal acts on which you ask me, the basic legal act is the law on environmental protection, and in the case of Kemiplas, the competent inspector has ordered certain measures on the basis of which that pollution agent had to adequately reduce emissions of substances to air below the limit value. He had to prove it by measuring the emissions of the substance into the air. It is also an important issue relating to the future. The deal was to find a way to move the factory and to find financial resources for it. Otherwise, a formal framework for the future of this factory is a European directive, or it is essential to obtain an environmental permit. This must take place by 31 October 2007 at the latest. And in the process of issuing this, this is the IPPC Directive, and the technological procedures used in the device are also being assessed. The basic condition for obtaining this authorisation is that the device does not burden the environment excessively, and the devices which do not obtain such a permit by that date will no longer be able to operate. To your specific question, I repeat. The latest measurements obtained from the position of the European measuring officer have shown that Kemiplas currently pollutes significantly less than European and Slovenian standards. This does not mean that the professional council run by Dr. Marjan Vezjak would not do anything to achieve such a technological and, above all, financial agreement to move the Kemiplas factory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u150	Complementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Everything you've listed still doesn't hold. Your assessment says: "The chemical complex is not only an air poisoner, but also water, soil and fingers, and thus the surrounding population, animals and plants. All facilities of the chemical complex are old and long." So, it goes into the air, you said, dangerous chemicals, and for technical water, the object doesn't have the right cleaning device. In short, you find marital non-compliance, legal inadmissibility, and environmental, human and animal threats. So once again, I ask you, Minister-respected: Will you act in accordance with the law and in fact - I have a very large social note myself - at least to help the factory install the appropriate cleaning facilities as soon as possible, even at the cost of the State having to jump into aid with a favourable loan? This is happening in every household that wants to be heated ecologically today. We know that we have favourable loans, your ministry signs them, and for such a factory that is so risky in this room, we could also find such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u152	Minister Podobnik, will you respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Regarding credits, I agree, loans are granted by the Eco-Development Fund; they are very favourable. Of course, it is necessary to decide on the strategic path. If intensive discussions are taking place with the owners of the company, ILO representatives, the Municipality of Koper and the Civil Initiative, and for moving production, it is not logical, of course, that we are going to make a major investment in the new cleaning plant. Both paths are impossible, only one path is possible. It is therefore possible to find a way and an agreement to move this activity. However, I must say that I have once again asked myself that, by the procedures and permits in force, the current Kemiplas factory is not in breach of any applicable legislation. In addition, the latest measurements by the Institute of Labour Protection and Environmental Protection in Maribor have shown that at present this factory does not cause any excessive pollution, currently. However, as has been said, even on the basis of a move by the Minister for the Environment and Space, the competent inspector ordered certain measures six months ago, and at that time had to adequately reduce emissions of the substance into the air. For the first time in the history of this factory, there was a sharp reaction by the inspector to the Minister's initiative under the current procedure. But at present, all the measurements have shown that Kemplas does not exceed the criteria laid down in European and Slovenian legislation. But this conclusion will not dissuade us from the commitment to find a solution to move this production to a more suitable location.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thanks for the answer. Member Milan Petek will raise the text or the question of a Member of Parliament. I also apologize for letting you out of my exam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you, Vice President. It was very coincidental for just five minutes of transmission, and that was probably the reason you let me out of the exam. I would like to forgive you for being on Maribor TV and in these media more times than Mr Friend, and so it will be no big deal. My question is for the Minister of Transport. That's how it sounds. The government also points to a lack of coordination between individual ministries and even a lack of coordination between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Transport by acting in the area of transport infrastructure development. This is my opinion on the basis of public statements made by individual government members. Dear Minister, you have recently made a public statement that, as far as it would be possible to obtain funding from the Cohesion Fund in negotiations with the European Union, financing models would be able to prepare a good financial structure and provide resources for the construction of roads, that is to say to start building the Dravograd-Arja Road as part of the third development axis in 2010. On a visit to the government in Koroška, which, in my opinion, served more to promote it and its political objectives than to actually solve the problems of the region of Korošci, the Prime Minister assured Korosci that it would be possible to start building this fast road in this mandate, that is, no later than 2008. Dear Minister, since you are an expert on the construction of transport infrastructure and a responsible and competent member of the government in this area, I ask you: Do you agree with the above-mentioned assurance of the Prime Minister? Is 2008 really a real time to start building a fast road Dravograd-Arja Vas? And: Can you also ensure the start of the construction of this road connection in 2008? I expect a concrete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to your question of coordination between the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, and myself, as transport minister, as regards the statements made on the possibilities for the construction of a fast road between Dravograd and Arjo village in 2008 during a visit to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Koroška, I would like to assure you that there is no disagreement between us and the Prime Minister on this issue. If you have read all the press reports on the visit of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Koroskem, the Prime Minister said that the competent ministries, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Space, will have to do everything in their power to start building a fast road in 2008 and that the Ministry of Transport, which provides the professional basis, will have to do everything in their power to start building a fast road in 2008, which would be essential sooner than planned. The Government has therefore already entrusted the Ministry of Environment and Space with drawing up by the end of the year a precise timetable for the management of all procedures relating to spatial placement of the route into the premises and the adoption of a regulation on the national location plan. The Ministry of Transport will upgrade the time-frame for the implementation of the rapid-road project with a timetable for all procedures falling within the competence of the Ministry of Transport and will be implemented after the adoption of the Regulation on the State Location Plan. So, it's about preliminary preparatory work for construction: land and real estate purchases, investment and project and technical documentation, then obtaining consent and building permits, then making public building calls and building itself. Later on, at a meeting with mayors and economists, which took place in Prevalje on the third development axis project, I made it clear that the objective set out above will be to achieve only with the full consensus of the country with all municipalities and local communities, through which the path of the future fast road is to be carried out. Otherwise, we can repeat stories either from Trebnje or from Radovljica, which we all know for a long time because of the partial interests of individual local communities and individuals in them. Both the Prime Minister and I, as well as the Minister of Transport, are aware of this and the call has also been made on both sides to fully engage all those involved and participate in this project. The Ministry of Transport has therefore already called on the Ministry of Environment and Space to prepare and draw up a proposal for a state-level rapid-road plan by mid-December of this year at the latest and by both ministers to confirm by the end of February 2006 at the latest, following the first spatial conference, following the other objectives of the adoption of the state-level plan regulation no later than the beginning of 2008. Let me conclude with the words of the Prime Minister, who said at the press conference in Prevalje: "If we are to manage this project in addition to the knowledge we undoubtedly have, there is also great luck and courage in carrying out the tasks that will be required at home, as well as in the tasks that will need to be carried out in the framework of the negotiations for the allocation of funding from the European Union fund, I see no reason why the construction of the rapid road between Dravograd and the Maribor-Ljubljana motorway itself would not begin at the end of 2008 at the first stage, which will take place in the direction of the motorway towards Velenje." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you. Complementary question, Member Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u159	Minister, I'm actually satisfied with the answer. Of course, it was impossible for the media to understand everything you just said, and so you explained exactly what the activities would be. Why did I ask you that? I asked precisely because of the fact that, of course, those who have received more flat-rate explanations through the media have received a concrete explanation. In this case, however, you have specifically explained who the actors are and how we should drive these matters. I ask you, however, because you are, after all, a long-standing road construction expert yourself, you have worked in the SCT, you have been the president of the Dars administration and, of course, in your work from experience, you have found that these procedures are likely to be very, very long and that some average time is four years. And if we consider this to be an average of four years, even in this case, especially from the fact that it is not yet known where the road will be connected to the highway or to Arja village or to Šentrupert, this doubt is, of course, justified by my judgment. For this reason, I would like to reiterate your confirmation that this road link is clearly out of that average period of preparation of all activities from placement to space, spatial acts, i.e. administrative procedures, building permits, invitations and so on. So if you give me that again in this way, of course I'll be happy. But in 2008, of course, I will hold you to your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you. Here you go, Minister Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you for the opportunity for further clarification. There is certainly an average of about three years to obtain a regulation on the location plan on motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. But the biggest problem in these experiences - that is, the shortest period was one year, which we reached at the section of the lower highway, and the longest, some of them lasted for more than four years, but given that I also called on local communities to decide as quickly as possible on the course of the future fast road, that means that a compromise on the course of the route will be necessary very quickly, what you have stated, so of course this deadline can be achieved under these conditions. As a transport minister, as well as, of course, the Minister of Environment and Space, we will strive to make this happen. For how well we are aware of the problems that are on the whole of Koroška and the entire course of this fast road, we also know, because extremely many calls come from both mayors and local communities, so the economists from this area, so this is our willingness to achieve this goal, very large and, of course, we will do our utmost to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you. The following question will be raised by Mr Janc to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister, Ministers, Presidents, Colleagues and Colleagues. The Animal Protection Act requires local communities to take care of abandoned animals. Abandoned animals are found, committed or taken by pets. According to the law, however, domestic dogs, domestic cats, room birds, small rodents, and other breeding animals are used for human society, protection or assistance. The municipalities must also provide abandoned animals with shelter and care for abandoned animals. At the moment, however, the shelters are a good business opportunity, since each municipality had to conclude a contract with the contractor which has a concession from the State on the implementation of this activity. I note that the funding for this activity increases significantly every year in the municipal budget, while at the same time I would like to draw attention to some of the facts and problems that occur in Slovenian municipalities. In the beginning, we talked mainly about abandoned dogs, because they can be very dangerous to humans and other animals. The dog - keepers, however, made good use of this law. It turned out that if a dog becomes aggressive and the veterinarian cannot kill him, the owner simply lets him go and "take care of the dog". Finders call a local community or a shelter that is responsible for caring for the dog, and the congregations have to cover all the costs incurred. These are travel costs, supply day, euthanasia and other expenses, which are about 70 grand a month, which are legally determined. I find that there are also many domestic cats that do not have owners and disturb residents in both the bloc's settlements and elsewhere. These animals must also be cared for by the congregation. In domestic cats, however, this is even more difficult because in any case the owner is unknown because they are not used chips than for example on dogs. However, I certainly see the fact that covering the costs of a cat's day of care is even more expensive than for dogs, that is 100 grand a month. It happens that people get tired of domestic cats and just throw them away. Neighbors or cat breeders, however, call a shelter where they are obliged to take care of them. In my opinion, the country should change something here, because, last but not least, I find that the monthly cost of domestic mucks -- and the best of all about them -- costs 100,000 dollars more than the cost of a man who's abandoned and doesn't have a home that's fought 70 grand. Is that not a devalued human dignity? I ask the Ministry: Can and on what basis and observes that the domestic pet is really abandoned or is it not just the exploitation of the owners of pet animals who have simply become tired and discarded? On what basis should the municipality determine the ownership of cats if there are no registrations for cats? Will the State contribute to co-financing costs for abandoned animals? [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I ask: Will the Ministry check this concession and the price of these enormous costs - for one month maintenance of the cat 100,000 SIT? Isn't that too much?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u164	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you for the question concerning the implementation of the Animal Protection Act. Identifying the identity of pet animals is a basic condition for determining whether or not an animal has an owner. This is regulated differently for individual species of animals. The identity of the dogs shall be determined on the basis of the individual identification of the dog with the microchip and the central dog registry. Since the State has prescribed the possibility and obligation to microchip, the identity of the dog can easily be determined. The identity of cats is more difficult to identify, as only cats with relatives are specifically identified. The identity of room birds, small rodents, terrarium, aquarium animals and other animals is prescribed by the rules on the labelling of animals of wild species in captivity. The case falls within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Since abandoned animals are the problem of the local environment and people living in this environment, it is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide care for all abandoned animals. Where it is possible to determine the ownership of an animal, the owner shall bear all the costs of supply in the safe house. Where ownership cannot be determined, the costs of providing abandoned animals shall be borne by the municipality. This is the current legal arrangement. The funds for the establishment of shelters from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia were available to the Ombudsman within the first five years following the entry into force of the law, which is until December 2004. From this title, some less than 5 million tolars were allocated in 2003 due to the budget rebalancing and, in 2004, a total of 24 million tolars to shelters that, of course, applied for a public tender and met the conditions laid down. Your proposal concerns a change of law. Once we have prepared a change of law, we will certainly explore the possibility of state co-financing of shelters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Member Bojan Rugel to the Minister of Health. We continue to ask Member Aurelio Juri the next question to the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since there is no minister, I expect an answer at the next meeting. I ask him about the implementation of the Act on the Environmental Protection Zone and the Epicontinental Zone, which we adopted in September and has been in force for a good month. As you know, I didn't believe in him because he seemed inconclusive, and that's why I didn't support him. And I feel the same way today. However, since the Minister, as a motioner, insisted on behalf of the Government that my position was wrong, I ask how the implementation of this law is. Article 6 makes it very clear - I hope you will remember when we adopted it - that the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal order of the European Union on the protection and preservation of the marine environment, including the archaeological heritage, are being implemented in the ecological protection zone. More specifically, in the areas of pollution prevention due to shipping, waste water, solid waste disposal and research activities and the exploitation of the seabed, as well as the protection and conservation of mammals and other animal and plant species, with a view to preserving the integrity of the marine ecosystem. So, very difficult and very specific tasks that require a large organisation, adequate infrastructure and some money. I wonder: How did the Minister for Environment and Space, who is here among us and I welcome him, ensure their implementation? What activities have you initiated, Mr. Podobnik, and what is actually happening on the ground, that is, in our ecological zone? Since we have involved in this project, whether we are interested or unwilling, as are its full-fledged members of the European Union: How would we answer similar questions in Brussels? Thank you for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u168	Minister Podobnik, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Ambassador Aurelio Juri announced to me at the time of the adoption of the law that after a good month he would be waiting for me with this question. So, how is the implementation of the law on the protection of the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone taking place? I'll give you six elements of the implementation of the law here. It is my opinion that the implementation of the law takes place successfully, in favour of preventing pollution of the Adriatic marine ecosystem and improving the quality of life on its coasts. In the implementation of the law, the Republic of Slovenia shall respect strictly the obligations arising from international law. The first element of the implementation of the law is the signing of the Slovenian-Croatian-Italian Agreement on Cooperation, Prevention and Cooperation in Pollution from Maritime Accidents. We signed it on November 8th this year. This is a modern legal basis with a plan for implementation in the event of extraordinary events, including events in the environmental protection zone. This Agreement allows for the implementation of a series of preventive activities that reduce the possibility of pollution caused by accidents at sea. My wish is to be ratified by the National Assembly as soon as possible. The second element of the law's implementation is that we have foreseen in the budget the means to modernise equipment, including the acquisition of a suitable vessel. This is an important element that the law can be implemented. The agreement, which we signed with two neighbouring countries, also provides for mutual assistance between Italy, Croatia and Slovenia in the event of major pollution on the Adriatic Sea. The third element of enforcement is that, on 11 November this year, we published a new regulation amending and supplementing the Act on concessions for the operation of a compulsory State economic public service for the maintenance of water and coastal land. This defines the provision of public service services distributed in an area where the Republic of Slovenia exercises its sovereign rights, jurisdiction and maritime control in accordance with legislation and international law. I have already announced that if the law is passed, then we should complete this regulation, and we have it. Fourth element. In the framework of the recent 14th regular meeting of the Parties to the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and Coastal Areas of the Mediterranean, the Parties supported the proposal of the Adriatic States, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Italy, Serbia and Montenegro and Slovenia to launch a pilot project to declare a particularly sensitive maritime area of the Adriatic, in accordance with the procedures of the international maritime organisation. This procedure will begin, and I think this is a good way. The fifth element. Representatives of the World Fund for Nature presented a professional initiative to establish protected areas on the high seas as a necessary measure to halt the degradation of marine ecosystems, as measures in territorial waters are not sufficiently effective. The Parties welcomed this, as well as representatives of international organisations. Sixthly, in the last year, we have managed to connect the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport, Maritime Administration, the port of Koper, the police, as well as the ARSO for traffic monitoring and action to achieve the greatest possible safety and emergency management in the northern Adriatic. These results were also presented in the framework of the 14th regular meeting of the Parties to the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and Coastal Areas of the Mediterranean and also to the international professional public. The assessment of these was highly positive. This is a very important professional basis for deciding on the most suitable vessel and techniques to control and act on the pollution of the Adriatic ecosystem in Slovenia. So, my fellow Member, I have listed a few activities that I consider that we have acted through them proactively and, above all, fully in line with the spirit and content of the European Maritime Strategy. [[That was your question in conclusion.]] . And this, which is now in the final stage of preparation for admission, requires States Parties to actively implement measures to achieve a good ecological state of the marine environment in the Adriatic ecosystem as well as in the ecological protection zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you. Complementary question, colleague Aurelio Juri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you, Minister, for listing all concrete measures related to the implementation of this law. I would like to ask another small question: Was the inspector responsible for supervision already in this area? How does he exercise control? Does he have all the powers or control through third parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u172	According to the information I have, the inspector hasn't been to this area yet. This is also related to the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on concessions for the performance of the compulsory State economic public service. This text - adopted by the government a month ago - is consistent with the text of the maritime code and the law declaring the exclusive ecological zone and the epicontinental zone. This means that it protects the interests of maritime security and maintenance throughout the sea area where the Republic of Slovenia can exercise its sovereign rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thanks for the answer. Dear Members, this time, I will ask for your help. 25. Member Bojan Rugelj was next in question. At his turn, the minister was not present in the hall but in the lobby. Therefore, I ask you, on my part, is the willingness to allow Ambassador Bojan Rugle to ask the question now. I ask you, however, whether there is one of the Members who opposes this. If one of the Members opposes this, because this is not the practice of the National Assembly, then I will not allow it. Who's up for it? I see you don't. This means that Member Bojan Rugelj is asking the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you, Chairman. Good-bye! Under the Health and Health Insurance Act, the selected personal physician is authorised to determine the inability to work for a temporary stay from work for up to 30 days. During this time, the employer bears the costs of the hospital stock, so there are no major obstacles for the selected personal physician to write a hospital certificate. This also makes the worker relatively well-protected. After 30 days of temporary inability to work for disease reasons for working for more than 30 days on the extension of the patient’s stock, the appointed doctor or in case of a patient’s complaint, the medical commission he appoints and also pays the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which of course is not correct. As a result, the designated doctor or in the event of a patient’s complaint, the Commission has repeatedly misjudged the patient for a healthy person, although they do not see him at all, only to examine him seriously and thoroughly. That's how they send patients to work, even though they can't really work. The selected personal physician and the specialist doctor cannot help the worker in this case, although they are different opinions. In such cases, when a worker makes a determination of his or her ability by the appointed doctor or commission to work for at least one day, the re-elected personal physician shall determine his inability to work and issue a medical certificate for the next 30 days. In many cases, practice proves that such a procedure is very pleasing to a designated doctor or to a health committee that protects a health insurance company, and it puts the employer in a very subordinate and unfair position. In a similar way, Kopitarna Sevnica lost a complaint in Sevnica with a worker who, on the basis of the written opinion of the Medical Commission, was able to work, had a broken working relationship because he had not been working for five consecutive days. The worker claimed that he was sick or unable to work at the time, and he also obtained such an opinion from a specialist. Since the case was drawn up for about 11 years, the company must now pay the worker 16 million 888 thousand SIT compensation. Of course, this company is now suing the health community and the health care community because, in this case, domestically speaking, they acted irresponsibly and thereby caused damage to the company. I'll tell you about the epilogue story. I do not think that such a very unfair way of working is appropriate, as it is mainly the short-term employers who, through their decisions, have to pay the medical community in an unfair manner. I therefore ask you: What measures will you take to change the bad legacy of the former authority and the unfair attitude towards our economy, as well as to all employees, especially those who are sick or unable to do so, and that this injustice, which unfortunately is confirmed too often in practice, will be eliminated as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, Members present, for the possibility that I could have this question and answer it. Thank you for asking. The question raised by Mr Bojan Ruglj is essentially based on a specific case of a certain worker who, after 11 years of age, was granted the right to return his salary because the employer had adopted a decision to end his working relationship due to his 5-day absence due to the disease. In this case, the Medical Commission did not consider the medical situation to be incompetent for work, and the decision was taken by the Court after 11 years, which suggests that the case was also very complex and demanding from a health point of view. Of course, this particular case does not show a general, generally incorrect organisation and the content of the work of appointed doctors and medical commissions. Individual irregularities and individual errors can be found, but I don't think that speaks for the general problem. The question only raises the broader national economic issue of the emergence and treatment of abstention, which burdens employers' labour costs, lower productivity while burdening solidarity-gathering funds in the health treasury and thus also negatively affecting the extent and accessibility of health services. The fact is that abstention in Slovenia has increased in recent years. I only have a few numbers here. For example, the number of cases in 2002 - 787,640, in 2004 - 813,000; quite a rise this year. 3.5 billion per year is an increase in the amount of funding paid for non-sensitism for those employers, too, for the same three years. These few data indicate that we are losing quite a number of working days in Slovenia for day-to-day absences due to illness and injury, and we are already giving more than 1.45% of GDP for this purpose. The appointed physicians and the medical commission of the health insurance institution are not only a poor legacy of the previous authorities, but also of the law of certain supervisory authorities, which determine in particular the professional health criteria and conditions for the ability of employees to work, but not at the same time a different medical condition. In their work, they use the developed technical guidelines for individual diagnosis or for individual conditions. Of course, there may also be certain contentious findings and expert assessments in this interesting and extensive part, where each case must also be analysed and acted, but legally guaranteed three-stage legal protection is provided for the exercise of its right by a designated doctor, medical commission and court. He could provide some information here, but there is no time, about the scope of the work of these commissions in 2004. Perhaps only the information that the second and third levels of 11.9 % of the claims of the insured persons of 6,628 complaints in Ljubljana have been favourably resolved. With regard to abstention, however, there is something else to point out: in EU countries other than Sweden, they have time-limited entitlements to compensation for health insurance accounts, up to 18 months at most. In Slovenia this is an unlimited period. The amounts of compensation up to and above 30 days in Slovenia are higher than the average of the European Union; only Norway has a higher percentage of compensation in Europe than 30 days. Slovenia is on average the number of days lost due to temporary incapacity to work, the fourth country in all European Union countries, that is 14 days. The Ministry of Health - this is now the question you have asked. The Ministry of Health is of the opinion that the issue of abstention, in line with the reform efforts of the State, will need to be taken more seriously and that conditions for the rapid rehabilitation and return of sick and injured workers. In this regard, the proposed amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act already contain certain measures that the Ministry of Health will try to implement in negotiations with trade unions and employers. Unfortunately, these negotiations are mainly carried out by trade unions, either slowly or not, from a dead point. Among other things, it contains a proposal in difficult procedures and a longer abstention for the involvement of specialists in medicine at work. Their cooperation would be less likely to lead to problems such as those mentioned by Member Bojan Rugelj here. I'll give you a brief summary. Absentism is a serious national economic problem and needs attention in the reform processes of the country for faster economic development. Employers must take planned and organised action to ensure adequate working conditions, safety at work, the relationship between employees, reduce waiting times for diagnostics and health services, thereby reducing the absence from work. Rehabilitation procedures should be accelerated and workers allowed to return to work as soon as possible. And with legislative changes, we will adapt the rights to and above 30 days of standards in the European Union. There will be a need to train professional, medical supervision of the occurrence of abstention and to include medicine in the treatment of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you. The following submitted for the submission of the Supplementary Question? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u178	Personally, I had a very similar case, so I think there are a lot more cases like this in the public eye when the medical commissions simply send the worker back to work. And here's the problem with this illogical thing. So, a personal doctor, as long as the entrepreneur pays his hospital, the personal doctor decides, there's no problem. And here I don't see the logic of why when the health community pays, I can't still make a personal decision. Of course, somewhere the Commission must say something, but I think on the basis of such documentation - Mr Minister, I will be able to bring it to you, the one with which I personally dealt - when the medical commission repeatedly repeated the exact same procedure only because the worker went to work for one day or that he took at least two days off because he couldn't work, and then there were no problems again. And I think that's what the core is. I think whoever's been doing something in the economy knows and feels that there's really a problem here with most of the stuff that's been going on for over 30 days. So it might be possible to think a little bit about whether it would be here, "kady sued you, kadija sued you" - here I am thinking about this medical commission paid by a health insurance company, and the clear thing is that they will do everything in favour of a health insurance company. Maybe we should be a little more independent here or something. I'm saying, like I said, I'm gonna show you papers, like, another case that I know, and it's very similar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u180	In fact, there was no question here, there was a comment, but I am involved in this discussion now. Perhaps you would like to attach in particular to the point where you speak of this case as not just one and that there may be quite a few. In all cases where the application is also addressed to the Ministry, we shall act on the legal path. Where there is no application, of course, this is more difficult. If, of course, the insured person feels injured on a second-degree committee, he may, of course, bring proceedings before the court. It is said that the independence of this procedure is somehow also guaranteed by the third stage. However, I agree with you and we will do much more in the future in this direction to actually reduce abstention on the one hand with better working conditions, on the other hand with more suitable hospital benefits and on the third hand also improve the control of those in the hospital. I think there's quite a reserve for health care in the future. On the other hand, I can also guarantee that the work of the medical and these commissions we have discussed here today will also be monitored more when they are in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you. The next question will be raised by Mr Bojan Kontic to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. Students studying exceptionally under a new system called the Bologna System are not entitled to child supplements in the postgraduate study. As a result, parents from larger families do not receive an allowance for a large family, because the country of one child, in the notes, "describes". Consequently, students are not entitled to alimony. In addition, the number of dependent family members is smaller, that number is reduced by one, and they receive a smaller child allowance for other dependent members because they fall into a higher class. In fact, family income is so much higher. Article 70 of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits refers to the rights of regular and extraordinary students. If the latter are not job seekers, they are therefore registered at the employment institution but only at the postgraduate level. As an example, I should mention the economic college, where they provide me, because my parents that studies under the new system have been introduced exclusively as exceptional studies and students do not have the status of an exceptional undergraduate student. When and how will you remedy your problems?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you. Minister Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you so much for asking. Dear Member, Mr Kontic. If you have looked at the programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005, you can find that the law on parental protection and family benefits is in the change programme and this amendment will also be included in this amendment of the law. In addition to the other proposals that we will introduce into the new text of the law, of course, in order to increase fertility in Slovenia, which is a major problem, and to make a more appropriate family policy. In short, the answer is short: it will be in the novelty of the law. I am considering how best we will deal with this, because the text of the previous law, which was passed during the previous government in 2003, did not see this coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u185	Thank you. Complementary question, colleague Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I would not have asked the question if I had not been warned that the Ministry had not answered the letters or had not answered the questions. But there was, they say, a little bit of a surprise that it's what parents warn it to be. Although I did not look closely at the government's programme myself, I am particularly interested in the laws which are in the procedure which are being prepared to be transmitted to the National Assembly. What you have in the coalition contract is quite an internal matter within the coalition. So I would like to ask you again: You have answered the question of how you will solve the problems that have arisen, or how, but you have not answered when this law will be. And when you said that by law you would increase fertility, of course I wish you much success. In particular, the problems faced by parents and students will need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you. Minister, can you answer me at any time?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u188	The government program is not just a matter of coalition. The government is a legitimate body, that is to say, an executive part of the government, and the Government's normative programme has also been informed by the National Assembly, because, of course, it has to be informed of the proposal for regulatory changes, however we are addressing it. But I have told you clearly how we intend to handle this. How someone responded to your phones is, of course, difficult to verify. I didn't get the letter myself. Otherwise, if anything was mediated to the Minister, I certainly answered. However, we believe that it is crucial to prepare such changes that are appropriate for those concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you. The question of Ambassador Breda Pecan, addressed to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, follows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. As it turns out, I'm not very lucky to be able to run into the day that the minister I'm asking him is present, or the minister is present. It all shows that our ministers and ministers do not have the habit of looking at the calendar of meetings of the national assembly or of the meetings of the national assembly devoted to parliamentary matters, and some of them are consistently lacking in these meetings. I wouldn't say this minister has the same habit, but, as I say, I'm particularly lucky, as everything seems. Of course, I demand that this question be answered at the next meeting and that is why I will read it. First of all, I would like to say that it is known that the last amendment of the Higher Education Act has laid down that the Government must adopt by the end of this year at the latest an appropriate act establishing a higher education agency. The Agency should be particularly concerned with the evaluation of the quality of higher education and higher vocational education. While the Ministry has set up a working group for the establishment of a public agency in which all partners should participate in the higher education process, it is regrettable that there has also been a permanent practice of the current government, which is not prepared to cooperate with civil society in the preparation of the rules. The Ministry did not ask universities, relevant student and employers' associations to propose their representatives, but appointed them themselves. Therefore, I ask the Minister to explain these developments regarding the procedures for setting up a higher education agency. Will the Agency be established by the statutory deadline and will it only be an extension of the government or will you make sure that it is an independent institution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you. Of course I won't give you another question. The last on the list of panellists is fellow Member Franz Kangler, who is not in the Chamber. This concludes the first round of questions from Members of Parliament and we are moving on to the second round, in which Member Maria Pozsonec is announced. Here you go. Mrs. Possonec, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u192	Once again, Minister of Health Andre Bručan, Doctor of Medicine, and Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Christmas, I'm asking the next question. I wonder why it is not necessary to carry out a medical examination and a test of the practical knowledge of boat management in order to issue a boat management permit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u193	Minister, you have the honour of speaking in front of our auditorium today in the last part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go. Mrs. Possonec, if you'll excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you so much for your words and for your honor. On the question of Member Marie Possonec, why it is not necessary to carry out a medical examination or test of the knowledge of boat management in advance, I am giving you the following answer. The Regulations on the management of boats, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, 42/2005, lays down in Article 4(3) that the applicant wishing to carry out the examination must, among other documents, attach a health certificate to the application. However, the sixth paragraph of the cited Article provides that a copy of the driving licence or medical certificate necessary for obtaining the driving licence shall be valid as a health certificate. This is due to the fact that the examinations are virtually identical, it is necessary to distinguish the colours of the light at the traffic light, red, yellow, green, and at sea the lights on vessels and lamps that are red, white and green. The second part of the question and the implementation of the practical work lays down Article 6 of the Regulation relating to the avoidance of collisions at sea, the determination of the position of the boat, the use and reading of the nautical map, the determination of the course of navigation and the measurement of distance, and the use of different ropes for the execution of knots. All of this shall be carried out practically on the maritime map and by means of the rope used for the implementation of the requested knot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your word. I have nothing to add to this, because this is a matter of the Ministry of Transport's jurisdiction. The act we have discussed is issued in agreement with the Ministry of Health. That's how much I'm involved in this answer. I think everything has already been answered. And a copy of the driving licence or medical certificate required to obtain the driving licence shall be considered as a certificate. However, in the event that a note restricting the candidate’s medical ability on a health certificate or doubting his medical ability, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia may require a certificate of the medical ability to manage a boat issued by the medical authority responsible for seafarers, as it governs the rules governing the identification of the following health capabilities of crew members on board, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 03. Essentially, the same conditions apply as for obtaining a driving licence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you. Complementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u198	If I understand correctly, then you don't need a special medical examination because they have a driver's license. But it would have to be time-bound, maybe someone got this permission 20 years ago, or 10 years ago, and maybe after that, health has worsened. That's one. Second, what if he doesn't have a driver's license? I don't think that's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u199	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thanks for the extra word. Member of the Commission, the fact is that a valid driving licence means that those who operate a vehicle have all the capabilities, including health. If anything's wrong, it means he doesn't have the ability to run a boat. So, I don't think the story here is loose, but it's some criterion that I find, in a way, that the ability is guaranteed through a valid document, a driver's license.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-21-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thanks for the deal. With this, I thank the Prime Minister and ministers, in particular two, for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 11th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck until then!
