ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We continue with the 12th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time the last meeting before Christmas and New Year's holidays. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Ivan Yelen, Franc Kangler, Bojan Kontič, Happy Friend and Dr. Slavinec from 12.00 p.m. on. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - This is for the defence proposal of a candidate for the appointment of a minister without a license, responsible for the integration and monitoring of the implementation of the strategy of the development of Slovenia. In our midst, I warmly welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, Madam Secretary-General and the other government representatives. Let me say that we have 5 hours and 35 minutes to discuss, and let me explain why there is no candidate for Minister, Dr Jožet Pavlič Damjan. It is a consistent practice, a protocol and also today's college conclusion that we will not change the practice so far on the possible presence of candidates. In this regard, I would like to ask you kindly not to ask questions in your performance or otherwise to argue with the candidate because he is not present and will not be able to answer your questions. Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed to the National Assembly on 6 December 2005 that he appoint Dr Jožet Pavlič Damjan as Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. I therefore give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to further explain my proposal in a few minutes that this High Council will appoint Dr Jožeta Pavlič Damjan as Minister without a Charter, who will lead the government's development service and coordinate the implementation of Slovenia's development strategy. With this explanation, I would like to reach out with at least a few sentences for the deeper reasons why this item is now on the agenda. These deeper reasons, of course, range or belong to a wider area where Slovenia belongs and where changes are constant. In the middle of the 1990s, Europe, on the old continent, was also dominated by the belief that the consequences of globalisation were so great that they would bring major changes and that they needed to be intensively prepared where for decades it was considered that trends were positive over and over again, that nothing important would happen if things did not happen simultaneously in Europe and that no progress of the European Union could virtually be avoided. The conviction has prevailed that changes come about that they are insurmountable and depend solely on us, or on Europe, whether it will fail to protect itself from these changes, or whether it will try to adapt to them and, in changed circumstances, maintain its strengths. As a result of these considerations, the Lisbon Strategy was adopted in 2000 and the Lisbon Strategy has largely responded to the question of what needs to be done in Europe in order to maintain a sufficiently high degree of competitiveness enabling the social state, the welfare state and all that is based on real economic development. The adopted strategy within the framework of the European Union in 2000 on the preparation of Europe for the future has been largely bypassed by even some members of the European Union, most of them candidates. Slovenia was also among those candidates for membership in the European Union, which did not touch on this strategy in 2000. She received some cynical comments from some of the age of the Slovenian economy, again a strategy that we will soon forget, except for the circle of younger economists, no one paid enough attention to this document. Despite the fact that this document has caused many changes in those Member States of the European Union that have taken these challenges of globalisation seriously and that they are far away today in 2005, they are not talking so much about reforms, but they are talking about the results of these reforms and what else needs to be done to make these results even better. As has already been said, with regard to this change, this perception of the need for changes in Slovenia, nothing special happened there between 2000 and 2002. It was a belief that this was not important to us and only after we proposed to the President of the State, as a result of the 2002 elections, a discussion on the future of Slovenia or the convention on the future of Slovenia, following the model of the European convention on the Constitution, things were somewhat lost. The President of the State listened to our initiatives, began to organise these interviews, and the then government also began to prepare a document that was adopted today, adopted in this mandate and is called "The Strategy for the Development of Slovenia". The preparation of this document has already encouraged some concrete activities already in the previous mandate, which, if not for practical shifts, have led to the spread of awareness that in Slovenia too, we must do something to ensure that in a few years or half a decade, we will not be lagging behind adequate responses to the challenges of globalisation that are coming. We have also slowly begun to believe that no interventionist measures, with no administration, with no prisons, with no restrictions, customs or other measures and advocates, can ensure competitiveness in sectors, because the same object is produced elsewhere in the world, which is a cross-cutting object, for ten times the lower price. The answer to the question of what to do in these situations is only one. It is necessary to produce, to be organised to produce more value-added goods so that we are also competitive under changed conditions. Based on this penetration of this knowledge has also been Slovenian, I will not say so much an economy which, I must say, was more aware, because every day it was involved in these trends, but also Slovenian governance with the country began to take on real ground. In this mandate, the new government has completed its work on the strategy for the development of Slovenia. In the middle of this, this strategy was adopted, we understood that with broad support, because after this debate, organised at different levels, there were no conceptual more serious comments, neither by parliamentary parties nor by partners within the framework of the Economic Social Council. The document was hailed as something that Slovenia needs and is at a level that is at the level of trends in the European Union where we entered at that time. The strategy was then further elaborated by the government in the form of a framework for economic and social reforms. This was adopted early this autumn. This document contains two types of measures. The first is those measures that have already been partially implemented or, at least some, have already been prepared and adopted in a normative sense, and there is still a need for implementation in practice, as well as those measures that concern only some reorganisation, not without some major shifts in the real sectors. However, the second part of this framework of economic and social reform measures, of course, includes measures requiring more radical changes and most of these measures fall within the field of social dialogue, which is why the Slovenian Government has adopted this part of the measures as a negotiating basis for the conclusion of a social agreement for the next medium-term period. Unfortunately, at the very beginning, we have stumbled upon the apriorous rejection of this work before the actual negotiations began, which, if not the other, has worsened the atmosphere, which is of course also important for such measures to be carried out in such a way that complete effects are achieved. In short. We are now in the stage in Slovenia, when the part of the measures that are practically indisputable and do not at least fall to a large extent, nor, in the field of social dialogue, is being accelerated, we are already doing so, but in some cases, we are also in need of reorganisation within the governance of the country. For the second part of the measures, some additional calculations are needed, and we need to obtain simulated effects from models that are partly in existence, and we are still preparing them in part. And here it will be a gradual construction of the building in terms of gradually proposing the necessary legal and other acts, most key ones will come to your tables. Each of these will be discussed separately during the third and fourth trimesters of the following year. In order for this activity to be coordinated, we also need coordination at government level. Comparatively historically, we are there somewhere, as we were when Slovenia began negotiations on the entry into the European Union, even then a special government service was needed to coordinate measures between different ministries and other parts of the administration in order to harmonise Slovenia in real time the part of the legislation that had to be harmonised prior to the entry into the European Union and that, of course, it also successfully negotiated. We plan to organise ourselves in roughly the same way now when it comes to implementing the strategy for the development of Slovenia or the framework for economic and social reforms. At the head of the government service, which has already been set up to monitor and coordinate the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy, I propose that, as used to be the head of the Government's European Affairs Service, even now the Minister without a Charter, who will, of course, be a member of the government and who will coordinate the implementation of these measures, also prepare these measures. In some ways, we get a point from which it will be possible not only to coordinate these measures, but also to have reviews at any time on how things are going and to coordinate individual activities that need to be carried out simultaneously. This is one of the last things we need right now in order to be operationally ready to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenia, virtually no longer any other major unknowns, behind us are successful negotiations and agreement on the next European financial perspective, we have received the European Union's budgetary framework by 2013, so there are no strangers in this respect, thus the final dilemma, whose solution was not largely dependent on us. All the others who are ahead of us mainly depend on how we ourselves will approach the realization or find answers to the challenges ahead of us, how much we will be able to put a common interest at the forefront of things that are simply necessary in the coming years. At this point, as I have pointed out for this speaker several times, we can implement these measures without any deterioration of the social situation, without increasing social differences, on the contrary, these social differences have increased so far within the framework that they have been created by 2004 or by 2005. Our goal is to now do everything that will allow for increased prosperity for all. How to do this is very carefully proposed and presented in these 70 measures and today, with the proposal you have on the table to coordinate these measures at government level, we are also setting up a special ministry or government service coordinated by the Minister without a charter responsible for development issues, we are rounding up the whole picture and, in my opinion, we are also putting this preparation into practice at the point that we can and need it at this point. With this explanation, the well-respected High Council, I once again ask for support for the proposal that Mr Jožet Pavlič Damjan be appointed Minister without a licence in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President, for further explanation. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee of the Economy and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. The opinion of the Committee shows that the presentation of the candidate was appropriate and that you have received the opinion and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Horvat Ferri, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Prime Minister with co-workers and staff members from the Cabinet, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and others present! The President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia assigned to the Economic Committee the proposal of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of Dr Jožet Pavlič Damjan as Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. During the course of business on 13.12., the Committee held or organised a presentation and forwarded an opinion to the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly on the same afternoon. The candidate Dr Damjan initially presented his views on the situation and trends in the Slovenian economy in the context of the European and global economy. In this regard, he presented in detail the objectives and content of reforms and the tasks and role of the Minister without a charter and therefore established new government services in the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. The introductory presentation was followed by a debate in which all members of the opposition and coalition committee participated in questions and comments. The candidate answered the questions raised in detail and comprehensively. The presentation, such as the introduction of the candidate, questions and answers, lasted four hours, talking about the interest in the presentation. After the presentation, the Committee adopted the following decision by a majority of votes. The Committee on the Economy considers that the presentation of the views and views of Dr. Jožef Pavlič Damjan, the candidate for Minister without a licence, responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, was appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Representatives of the parliamentary groups are now on the agenda. The first is Mr Rezman, who will present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you so much for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Today we are starting a debate on the new job, on the candidate and on the DeSUS Group of Members, when we consider what our preferences will be, in the introduction, we can say that we intend to give the opportunity to prove the candidate in the place to which it is intended. However, we consider that there is no particular reason to assess the current moment as a particularly euphoric mood, but we believe that there is now a time when much more hard work is needed, when more coordination is needed, when many negotiations are needed, to be aware that there will also be misunderstandings, and that there will be a need to look for ways out of these misunderstandings. So when we talk about the strategy for the development of Slovenia, it is probably clear to us all that we are talking about a strategy that is determined by many other international ones, either documents or economic and other trends, and so do we. So we know that today is not only about the candidate for minister, but also about the reform framework and what is behind it and what is not. We in the DeSUS Group support reform, but we always say that we do not fully support it, as it is presented, but that we understand this reform framework as something that is proposed for communication, for negotiation, for something that will go faster and at a slower pace, and for this to happen within some paradigm of hollism. Not by first taking care of one, then the other, then the third, but perhaps by delaying the welfare of each individual, as described in the reform framework, into some far-reaching future. This is how we understand the main objective of the strategy, either in the title or in the subtitle. It will therefore be necessary to choose the right paths, it is likely to be necessary to seek the right means, to find the right instruments, partners to implement all of this, and also to make sure that the elderly in particular do not feel that the well-being is moving so far away that they themselves do not receive it. On the other hand, it is our view that an integrated approach means, above all, that all aspects are regulated at the same time, not only the reallocation of already created wealth and what is yet to be created, not only tax relief for those with economic levers in their hands, but also thinking that those who do not have these powers at the same time will also receive emerging benefits, in conjunction with other measures, hopefully greater prosperity. Of course, the job and Dr. Damjan have a very responsible and ungrateful role to play. It does not appear from the title that its role would be particularly active, it is more about monitoring and coordination, one such government coalition treaty monitoring service, but if I say so euphemistically, there are no terrible results to be commended for. We hope this job will be more successful. Let us hope that she can coordinate her work so that she can be active in this way that the imbalance within the government itself, I think, above all, as far as direction is concerned, she can coordinate and that this coordination will then be an opportunity for cooperation and not for reasons or reasons for vaccination, for fragmentation. The team is also modest by number and is still unknown to us by name, but, as the Prime Minister understands, it is investing in this team and in the minister, future Minister Damian, all confidence and it is right that he also receives our support to the extent that we judge that acceptable coalition and other objectives will be achieved for us as well. The Chief of Staff, Dr. Damian, has so far not been politically specifically profiled and we haven't met him in two ways. One way was the document sent to us by the Prime Minister, where his bibliographic references were written, which would probably be more needed by the habilitation commission, and we introduced it through newspaper articles and through other performances. Here we can say that the candidate for minister was quite determined, and again I am talking about euphemism, that he was insidious, that he was sometimes biting. In politics, certain things will certainly need to be changed, or these dimensions also need to be changed, and it seems that this has been demonstrated in the defence of the home committee itself. There it seemed or was explicitly said that it was no longer an inadmissibility, that it was an argument based on calculations, that it was a matter of being willing to listen to the social partners, and I also understood that social dialogue was also taking place. This is also a prerequisite for reform to be successful. In heaven people cannot be driven. Now it's time we don't say any more sentences, you guys are reading the wrong books, but now it's time for us to say sentences, you guys show your results, and we'll also be monitoring the DeSUS Group, what the results are, and these results will also depend on our continued support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko has the floor to present the SDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister and also to all present in the Chamber. Slovenia has experienced major changes in the past year, which have encountered very different responses. On the one hand, we read and listen to public praise for what we have done, and on the other hand, we are protesting exactly what we have done and also against what we intend to do. Politics is also divided. Some want to continue, prepare and implement reforms, pursue their own and European objectives, others stand more aside or even draw back. Even elsewhere highly valued and respected rationalisations and appreciations in domestic politics do not fall to fertile ground. The unions are very asymmetrically divided. Most media like to avoid the success of the coalition; much more attention is paid to trade-offs and fears and warnings against current and future government measures. But there are also those who hope and, above all, want to tell the public that fears are superfluous. A while ago, in one of the local newspapers of my constituency, I read the introduction of the Mayor of Janez Novak, from the Municipality of Loško Potok, entitled "The State Surprised the Municipality", in which he praised the new government, which in June his and the other municipalities, at the southern border, announced that it would co-finance the announced projects in all municipalities at the southern border. Projects under the previous government indicated that they would be nothing because the Green Border Act had not been implemented. I also have before me the gratitude of the Chamber of Commerce, which it has sent to every member of the coalition, in which it expresses its gratitude for all that this year the Government and this coalition have done for the development of small entrepreneurship. They did not forget in Tradernik that we are implementing a coalition treaty and they do not forget to stress that we are very fond of this part of society. Not only are they grateful for the recent changes in tax laws that have brought a type of novelty that previously craftsmen and small entrepreneurs could only dream religiously of. They also highlight major changes in the administrative field, which allow for a completely different approach if anyone decides to enter a separate economic activity. Changes in education and labour legislation are yet to be expected, so that the barriers to self-employment will only be more relaxed and will only make it more flexible to the requirements and needs of the markets. It is also stated in the Obrtnik that the new approach of the government is that, in this mandate, the doors of the government departments are open to the difficulties, that initiatives are taken seriously and that it has become a short road from idea to realization. It also says that much can be done in one place, that you are no longer sent from door to door to collect the stamps of officials on individual documents. The coalition that manages the country in this mandate has made it extremely clear to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that they are a desirable part of our society and that they are widely expected of them. This segment is very important for the country, because it is very flexible, flexible and does not cause any particular structural concern to the country. Much less noticeable was the response of the Chamber of Commerce, although the members of the Chamber of Commerce's last tax changes were at least affected to the same extent. There are also tens of billions of reliefs and reliefs. And these funds will be able to be used by companies for research, for development, for penetration into new markets, for technology and for competitiveness and could also be listed. While the changes were very positive by individual directors or administrations, the system of the Chamber of Commerce remained more reserved than it did not yet believe in the reality of the measures taken. Some important political parties, particularly Liberal and Social Democracy, remained on a completely different coast. The Council of State and the largest trade unions, which show their disapproval of the changes made and also of the announced changes with public criticisms, by demeaning the smell of relief and the release of strong ties of the country. As if they do not agree with the process of liberalisation, deitatisation, that they do not agree with the promotion of entrepreneurial freedom and their own initiatives, with the trend of increasing the independence of citizens or with their greater autonomy. Advantages appear to be a liberal and social façade, behind which is a completely different character of the parties. By creating psychosis, intimidation, by highlighting the black perspective, the black scenario, the vetoes, public protests and threats to referendums, they discourage the public so that they can learn in peace the news and explore the new opportunities and opportunities offered. At the same time, this inhibits the processes which Europe is witnessing and in which we must not allow ourselves to be held back. Much more effort will be needed to make us faster and better than they are and to draw gradually closer to them. We have come into a situation where those who are in cohabitation or better, in co-ordination, have spent a crucial period of property transformation in which major and sudden changes have taken place, when some have become miraculously rich and have become owners of an important part of the former common property, while others, their addicts, want to stop the process of change and its key objectives. They do not agree on the same starting opportunities that we want to enable citizens, but they want to preserve the privilege of sharing and teaching. In fact, what do they tell us about their conduct? First, the fear of development and increased economic growth, greater flexibility or flexibility to be concerned about higher wages and better citizens' standards, and the better opportunities for education, a better working environment to care for more and more stable jobs, to worry about greater competitiveness and more. Trade unions and the Ombudsman are very concerned about this. The guardian's statements seem to be even [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u9	Mr Tanko, I hate to do this, but we are discussing the candidate's proposal. I'm asking you to stick to the darkness. We're discussing the candidate's proposal, Dr. Damian.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u10	This is in the context of reforms and restructuring, Mr President. Indeed, competitiveness requires much greater activity of individuals, economic and other societies, policies, in short, of all those operating in the wider space. In fact, it is only now that the real impulse of creativity, ability, permeability, desires, and more is being given, and when the influence of the skeleton approaches of the previous century begins to decline. New options are being opened, the competition is being encouraged and results are expected, and rightly so. In fact, this is the main source of unrest in some systems, organisations, associations, and perhaps customers and headquarters. For decades, not much has actually been going on, everything has been on the run, most often from the top down. When, say, the bus was ordered, the banners were loaded, a few people gathered quickly, sausages were provided and action began. This will probably not be enough now and the new situation will need to be adjusted. By the end of February, legal entities will have completed the accounts by March and other taxpayers will likely see directly the effects of this year's coalition tax action under the slogan of Slovenia on a new path. Citizens themselves will make sure that the removal of stickers and the appreciation of notary services were just an overture and that the debate on whether changes were true and effective was unnecessary and only used to account with the government and coalition and, of course, for the spectacle of those who have proved to have two lions, as we like to say today, those who smell more talk than the real work. No later than March, we will calculate for ourselves what the new tax legislation is like. The calculation of income will allow many to benefit from at least some of the many additional or increased benefits, which will be directly known in the taxpayer's wallet. Therefore, the opponents of the reforms actually have one task only. If they cannot prevent the implementation of the tax legislation, they try to discredit it at least as quickly as possible so that the taxpayers do not accidentally link tax reforms and situations in their wallet or in an account with the current authority, although many individuals and many small entrepreneurs, such as members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, will be distracted. However, this will not hinder us from working and thinking and seeking even better solutions. Already, in this short year, this government has proved that it can connect, that it can organise, and that people, regardless of the political profile, believe in it. That we have a different approach, and that we hope to invite people with different opinions to participate, and that they also have different knowledge. Part of the reforms that we have given Slovenia to Miklavža do not stem from client programmes or coalition contracts. Cooperation with stakeholders, civil groups and so on has also played an important role. The government has taken an organised approach, as it is for the area of economic improvement that it has set up working groups that have set up a number of interesting initiatives. Of course, it was not possible for all to be legalized, but some have only found the way to the rules. A very important role this year was played by the Committee on Reforms, which in a short period of time prepared a comprehensive and high-quality document on guiding economic and social reforms to increase economic growth and employment, in which our legislation has been cut down and which sets out the measures that Slovenia must take if it is to follow the paths that the most successful countries follow. Only local knowledge has developed solutions for the objectives of European documents and the recently adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia. This has already begun to be prepared by the previous government, and without prejudice or prejudice, the new government has taken it, completed it, completed it, and adopted it on 30 June this year. Our government and our country are ahead of a challenging task, since, in addition to ensuring that conditions are created for meeting the Maastricht criteria and taking over the euro, it must also implement the development priorities it has set and recorded as priorities in Slovenia's development strategy, as defined in the implementation plan of the so-called reform programme. All the conditions for taking over the euro have already been met this month, and a large majority of the reforms are still pending. Approaches to the implementation of the tasks arising from the reform package can be different, as can be seen from the discussions in this house and other environments. Different dynamics can be different, different order can be different, different determinations can also be different. We may decide to proceed with a single procedure or to proceed gradually. The measures envisaged concern all the government departments; an important component of the reforms is the drawing-up of European funds. Just a few days ago, this government and this coalition successfully completed their work in shaping the next financial perspective, which brings net earnings of €2 billion more than ever. And, of course, more than the authorities have requested, the most demanding and viewed ministers of the previous government and also 20% more, as measured by the proportion of GDP, as set out in the European Union State Council Affairs Committee as a criterion. A number of this package of reforms will also be linked to coordination with the social partners, which are an important part of our reality and which determine to a large extent the pace of development and the response of society to changing domestic and external circumstances. There is no secret that it is a key project of this coalition, that it is also a key project of Slovenia. At the same time, this project is an integral part or a better implementation part of the Lisbon Strategy of the Joint European Project. It is therefore a type of simultaneousity, a system of related matters that we cannot handle with our left hand on the system, if the villas will be sporadic if it is "tumpast" and the hack. If we want effects, if we want to monitor and synchronize the process, if we want it to go along the predictable path, then we need to deal with realisation with all the necessary seriousness and care. The key project must be given sufficient attention and support by the government and must be given the right location and the right weight. And that's why it's right that in this case we have a slightly more right-wing government. In the parliamentary group, we support a single ministry, which will have all the powers and opportunities to carry out effectively the tasks on which the future position of Slovenia will depend so heavily, as well as the position and satisfaction of its citizens. We support the Government's proposal that Dr Jožet P. Damjan be appointed Minister without a charter, with the task of coordinating the work of government officials, all ministries involved in the reform process. His theoretical knowledge is not disputed, for he has proved many times that it belongs only to the professional tip of domestic economists. We are convinced, however, that the candidate for a minister will be able to effectively link his excellent theoretical knowledge to practice and that, with his help, the citizens of Slovenia will also move faster along the path of reducing the development backlog for the most successful and effective European and global countries. Its success in implementing reforms will be our joint success, so we expect it to have not only coalition but the broadest political, professional and public support in its work. Our Group of Members will also support Dr Jožet P. Damjan, who has been proposed by the Prime Minister as Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Before I give the procedural word mag. I am obliged to quote paragraph 2 of Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure: "The speaker may speak only of the matter on the agenda." I would therefore ask that we discuss the suitability or inappropriateness of Dr Damian's candidate. Mag. Squeaky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our procedural proposal is as follows. Whether everyone, including the Prime Minister and Mr Tank, will stick to the agenda, which is a proposal for a candidate for a minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia, or whether the National Assembly decides that we are talking about everything else, an analysis of the past, what the government programme should be, what the government really thought in the context of economic reforms, what will happen to tax matters. Because what we have heard, in particular by the predecessor, Mr Tank, was talking about what the Ombudsman thinks about what the unions think about what the income bill will be. He talked about everything, just not about what is actually the agenda. So I'd suggest we make a decision. We have no problem talking about what we have done since Slovenia gained independence to build what we have today. Thus, we are a member of the European Union, we have been able to receive what has been said and we have built a system in the past. We don't have a problem. However, to say that someone with some customs restrictions stops the development of Slovenia when all parliamentary parties in 1996 agreed that the entry into the European Union is priority number one and that some political coalition led it, and that on 1 May 2004 or even 3 December 2004 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u13	Mag. I have to warn you, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u14	So I propose, Vice-President, whether the title of the agenda item changes or all, including the Prime Minister, Mr Tanke, when they go through a discussion that is the Minister without a licence, not the Ministry, unless the agenda item is the law on government, the amendment of the law on government, the Minister without a licence, to warn them. Today we appoint a minister to lead the management, monitoring and implementation of the SRS, the so-called "SUSI" of the SRS, the management, monitoring and implementation service. That's all we do and nothing else. By proposing either a change in the title of the agenda item or a strict warning of the present debaters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The agenda is set. The contents of the point are well known and I will be making an effort as chairman to stick to the contents of this point, namely the appointment or non-name of Dr. Jožet Pavlič Damjan. I expect all the following panellists to respect the content of the point and to abide by Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I can do this anymore. Thank you so much for understanding. And we'll proceed with the presentation. Mr Petek is next to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u16	Good-bye. Dear Prime Minister, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dear Fellows! In the LDS Club, we welcome the appointment of a candidate for a minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia to take political responsibility by entering the government for the implementation of the government's social and economic reform package. Even though the name of the source, which the candidate will lead, appears to be misleading, will only include the title of the document of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, which, you know, has already been designed by the previous government, we know that the real goal is to try to do what the candidate, as head of the reform committee, has set out in his proposal for social and economic reforms. In the introduction to his presentation at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Mr Damjan himself admitted that he did not have any concrete experience of working in the economy. This reduces its personal credibility in the eyes of the professional public, in business and economic circles, as well as between citizens and citizens, as it is similar to someone who has developed a new way of operating in the open heart, and has never seen an operating room in his life. And the measures that you have defined in government, social and economic reforms, the distinguished Prime Minister and the candidate for a minister without a licence are an operation whose outcome cannot be imagined at all. In the entire debate that we have closely monitored so far, you have served with too little tangible data, calculations and simulations to predict how social justice Slovenia will be after the end of your mandate, how quality life will be in it and whether it will be even possible to define it as a state of prosperity. With regard to professional references and academic engagement to date, in our view, there is nothing to be seen by the candidate, but this and the high personal motivation to finally test his theoretical knowledge in practice suggests that Mr Damjan Slovenija may be able to turn into an academic experiment, into a laboratory test that may even once be a court for many scientific debates and articles. The fact that the candidate and the government are insurmountable proves by insistence on the introduction of a single tax rate, even though the unions and with them many workers, students, students, culturers, intellectuals, economics and other experts have clearly opposed it. Such an unwillingness to seek compromise and thus to cooperate, to condition or even blackmail is by no means a good guide to the future of social dialogue, which has been the basis for decisions on key social issues all these years in Slovenia. That, after the introduction of the single tax rate, wages remain unchanged and poverty will not increase, in the light of recent public surveys, fewer citizens and citizens believe you. You have obviously ignored the social, cultural, psychosocial aspect of any more sensitive changes in the social system when writing your reforms, because you obviously do not know that equality, small social differences and trade union rights are values that are high on the scale in Slovenia. In his presentation, the candidate highlighted the importance of human capital and knowledge as a key factor in increasing competitiveness, but the proposed reforms define knowledge as a market service or goods and not as an individual's right and public interest. At least at this point, when you say that knowledge is the key to increasing competitiveness, we agree with you at the LDS. However, we cannot agree in any way, and it also proves our work over the past 12 years that increasing competitiveness and redistribution of profits is a goal in itself. Economic performance, which is not accompanied at the same time by measures to strengthen social cohesion and ensure sustainable development, makes no special sense except for a small group of privileged large capital owners. In this presentation position of the LDS Club, we will not take all our views on the specific areas of social life that have been processed by the candidate and the government in the reform documents. We will do so, colleagues and colleagues from the LDS Club, further, but it has been said and heard to say so far enough that we now know that the candidate, later, we have no doubt, the Minister without a Charter, will need much more patience and thinking and less serenity than he has shown so far. In the LDS, we will not support Mr Damjan's candidacy as Minister, but not because we would think he is unable to lead and operate in the government, but because he simply specialises the announced changes that will be suppressed by Slovenia where the vast majority do not want to, in society of great social differences, social exclusion, life without solidarity and social dialogue, into a world of exacerbation of contradictions and not dialogue and negotiations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Han, who will present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Vice-President, State Assembly! Social Democrats have many questions and concerns about reforms, the expansion of the state administration and the spending of additional tax money. That's why last week we were looking forward to hearing a new candidate for minister, Dr. Damian. It is also encouraging that by then the government had not provided satisfactory answers and data, regardless of whether opposition parties, employees, pensioners, students, young families, representatives of trade unions and also another economy. Unfortunately, we did not get any answers about the powers of the new ministry at the hearing. We think that changes are necessary in Slovenia, that Slovenia must move forward with development. The situation in Slovenia is certainly not as bad as the group of reformists, and if you want the government, so do foreign experts. He's probably not among us who thinks we should encourage phone calls, because they are now cheaper than most European Union countries. It is probably not among us who would be thrilled to welcome the rise in the prices of fuel oil derivatives just to blindly follow the withdrawal of the country from the economy, and I hope that there are not many of you who support the idea of rich people getting richer at the expense of the weaker ones, of course the voices and not the words spoken will talk about it. At the hearing, the candidate has repeatedly reiterated the need to seek a social consensus for reforms. I personally support the candidate in his thinking, but I also see that the government he proposes does not agree with him in principle. In writing the reform proposal, the government excluded the social partners and introduced some kind of monologues and deliberately ignored them in preparing the supplementary budget for the next two years, which has happened for the first time in history. It also rejects the expert opinion of experts who are not prepared to submit to political ideology. We have only heard of the search for consensus so far, but it would be much better if words came into action. The pattern of duality repeats itself. On the one hand, the fine words of the candidate and, on the other, the harsh facts of government decisions. The future minister likes to stress the importance of knowledge and education, while the government also reduces, for example, the co-financing of postgraduate studies and money for development and research rather invests in the small and military industries. Even more so in the field of education, some highly educated reformers are willing even to deny the next generation the right to free education, which they want to abolish through privatisation, irrespective of the fact that they have always been sidelined by the state in their education. In the field of health, we do not have clear answers regarding the privatization of health care and the introduction of payment of medical care. There are no answers to what bills we're going to pay for health services after the new one. However, there are many issues that we will pay particular attention to in the Social Democrats. The essence of the Lisbon Strategy is to increase employment and competitiveness, but I cannot help but see that it is obvious [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u19	Mr. Han, I must warn you too. We are discussing the candidate. Please respect that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you. That the only measure or policy available remained exactly the flexibility of the labour market. Of course, the Social Democrats would be happy to support this idea if they believed that flexibility was aimed at people and not at enriching capital gains. However, to facilitate forgiveness and to reduce social inclusion and social rights at the same time, they clearly point to the fact that the burden of reform will be borne mainly by people living on the fruits of their work. Representatives of the Chambers have already publicly praised the Prime Minister for providing them with savings, mainly due to the abolition of the tax on salaries paid. This measure is good, but this time the truth is on the side of the Social Democrats, which we have already warned that the government did not want to raise the net wages of workers, but only to increase the profits of owners. It is also interesting to note from the adviser to the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Dr. Drenovac, who estimates that the labour market reform programme is aimed at counter-librity, subordination and dependence on capital. The greater flexibility of the labour market is also contrary to government promises of increased fertility. Of course, the issue of reforms remains open in other areas of future pensions, how the reforms will patch up the denationalisation hole, which awaits us, where we will invest the money from the state property sold and could also be listed here. It is also unclear what reforms the government and the new minister will start with. Clearly, the first step is tax reform, which will be followed by the rest. I am asking myself about the usefulness of such a decision, first to prescribe a new tax system and then to reform everything else. This would only be possible if the authors of the reforms found, in other areas, that, like tax reform, they were to have a total neutral impact on public finances and fiscal policy. Otherwise, a new tax reform will have to be put in place, making the economy and workers bear the burden of bad decisions against them. Of course, it is possible that the government will use hidden weapons and increase VAT and, through higher consumer taxation, will cover the loss in the budget, which will result from poor decisions. The minister's candidate presented his reform of the public administration in the newspaper last week. He's offering the simplest solution, we hire public administration workers to the agency a month before it closes, and we shut down the agency. People will be on the road as soon as possible. We are opposed to such a plan and a way of informing the public, so let Mr Damjan forgive me if I do not make fun of the new jobs. Although I was personally impressed with the candidate's concern for his child, I would ask him to look over his own threshold and with the same enthusiasm after he is likely to become a political official, taking care of others. Also, it is unlikely that many people can imagine that they would just leave their job interview for personal reasons. Apparently, some have been granted this privilege. Let me finally stop at the taxpayer's money. For the fat 350 million tolars, as much as the new minister will spend in two years, of course, mainly on wages. The government, its president and reformists have repeatedly made a public commitment not to spend a tolar on writing the reform agenda. Today, we can see how this "neither tolar" will turn into rewards, obviously also so great that individuals are willing to abandon the academic career or earnings they otherwise receive for their knowledge so that they can prepare the reform for free. Very interesting. Let me stress once again that the Social Democrats see that changes are needed in Slovenia. We are convinced, however, that they do not need to be carried out with demolitions, with swamps, with bulldozers, but with soundness of mind and gradually. A fine-mechanical tool should be used. Of course, such a path requires more energy, more effort, more coordination, dialogue and wider social consensus. However, its results do not cause division among the nation. Since the government has not yet clearly answered us why the new ministry, what percentage of individual ministries will the new minister take, who will delegate tasks to someone, who will supervise someone and most importantly, who will be responsible for everything and what we can promise from this means that it did not want to share its plans with the opposition and the wider Slovenian public. It is also unclear whether the candidate for a minister, Mr Damjan, will follow his expertise or political power, which is why dialogue with the social partners is in the air, which is the basis for reforms for the Social Democrats, but we cannot support Mr Damjan in the Socialist Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Sok's speaker to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Prime Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I also welcome Minister Damian, if he is elected today, I think he is listening. After a strange rule we have, he cannot be present. I also welcome, of course, all those who, through the RTV receivers, accompany this meeting today. In my performance, I will try to be brief and talk about what is under discussion, and I hope that I will not resent the representatives or members of the opposition. First, let me say that the legal basis for the appointment of a minister without a licence is in the government law. The Government Act states that the National Assembly can appoint two ministers without a licence - one we have already appointed, that is the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and one we will be if the majority will today, namely the Minister for Reform. The Coalition Treaty also provides the basis for what we are going to do today. In fact, it is stated that the government will organise itself in such a way as to follow key strategic priorities as rationally as possible and that it will also adapt the organisation of government resources. We have already heard that the previous government has begun to prepare a development strategy, and the current government has also adopted it in June 2005. This is a series of economic, social measures that need to be implemented if we are to follow the trends of global globalisation. And on the basis of this strategy, the reform group, which has recently been led by Jože Pavlič Damjan, has prepared social and economic reform measures. It is 70 measures for which individual ministries are responsible and which will need to be implemented in the next two years. Let me say that much of what is written in this context of social and economic reforms is already in the current government coalition and that these measures will be carried out as the government has adopted and as many are convinced. As long as social sustainability is ensured, this means that the social situation of certain categories of citizens and citizens will not deteriorate. Unless in any of these measures, the euro to be taken over by Slovenia is at risk from 1.1.2007. Many of you have already spoken before me, and let me mention that some of these reform measures have already been adopted in this National Assembly, in the form of a package of changes to tax laws. It is very important to reduce the tax on paid wages, perhaps not all of us are aware of this measure at the moment, but the government has decided to abolish this tax altogether within the next 4 years or, if possible, sooner. Then there were accepted incentives for investing in research and science. The tax procedure has been simplified, many changes have been made in the law on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u23	Mr. Sok, subject of discussion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u24	I have already apologized in the introduction to hope that I will not harm or challenge the opposition's MP with my performance. So, I want to conclude that it is actually necessary to continue this process now that these things are already in place and when they are being implemented intensively. In order to continue with this intensity, the Prime Minister, which we respect in Novi Slovenija, decided to propose a Minister without a portfolio to coordinate and monitor this minister and to offer professional assistance and cooperation with other ministries responsible for implementing individual measures under this reform framework. We will support this decision by the Prime Minister. We think it makes sense at this point, and we hope that the newly appointed minister will be creative and as best he can participate in the new government. We're still trying to get him to do a good job. Let me conclude that 350 million, as much as this service is supposed to spend on its work over the next few years, is only half of what we spent on a pointless RTV referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I apologize in advance to anyone I reach out to if he violates the rules of procedure. Thanks for understanding. The next word is Mr Presečnik, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members! Prime Minister Janez Janša proposes Dr. Jožet P. Damjan as Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. The implementation of the objectives set in the strategy for the development of Slovenia is, of course, crucial to Slovenia's success in the future. Follow-up to the objectives set requires good coordination of individual resources and continuous monitoring of actions by area. We are even more confident about this because the envisaged reforms require good coordination, as these are very serious changes that could lead to inappropriate solutions if they were not implemented in a coordinated manner. As a government party, we trust the Prime Minister to propose the right person to the chosen place. Jože P. Damjan is an expert, an economist who has contributed significantly to the emergence of economic and social reform frameworks in Slovenia. We are convinced that it is more than appropriate for it to also take on the coordination of the implementation of the envisaged reforms and thus an important responsibility for the implementation of the objectives set. We all know that professional reforms, whether in the field of economy or elsewhere, should be relatively easy to propose, and it is much harder for such reforms to achieve a consensus of the general public and to obtain appropriate political support for them. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by a candidate for Minister. We are aware that it is a difficult task for him, but we expect him to take full responsibility for it, and that he will ensure the successful implementation of the proposed reforms within his remit. At the same time, we expect the future minister to be supported by the key decisions to be taken in the future with the aim of implementing the envisaged reforms, with appropriate calculation and research, which will allow for the prediction of the effects of individual decisions or measures. It is known that in the Slovenian People's Party, we have taken a positive position on the recently adopted government framework for economic and social reforms on all bodies. The final position on some measures will be taken once all the expert analyses are prepared. There are mainly concerns about a single tax rate that is intended to reduce the economic and social situation of a large part of the population. However, these concerns about the single tax rate can only be addressed by the corresponding calculations, which will clearly show the effects of the introduction of such a rate. Despite this concern, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that reforms need to be implemented. The current situation in Slovenia is not the best and we want changes that will enable Slovenia to develop better in the future. We are confident that Dr Jože P. Damjan, who will be responsible for the implementation of the reforms, will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set and will therefore be supported in the Slovenian People's Party's Group as a candidate for a minister without a licence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. As the last position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Vice-President Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! We have a table ready, which means no one in this room doubts that the new minister will be confirmed. No one in this Chamber is likely to question the theoretical knowledge of the proposed candidate. However, some shortcomings have been highlighted, on the working body, shortcomings that are evident to the candidate, whether work experience or real life. In submitting the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, I will not proceed to the personal evaluation of the proposed candidate. I believe that work is the criteria through which it is easier to assess an individual, whether within the executive or legislative branch of authority. However, I would like to touch on his work so far, but only on the part that has or will have an impact on the decision of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group in connection with the vote on the appointment. This part of his work, according to our assessment, is defined and written in the form of measures in the economic field, in the future economic field, in the candidate's visions for the development of our country and according to our assessment in a very important area, this is the ability to follow the words of Prime Minister Janez Janša in his opening speech, that is, a blessing for all. I must therefore say from this place that the proposed measures by Mr Damjan, i.e. measures in the economic field, do not follow the words of Prime Minister Janez Janša, i.e. prosperity for all. This first comes as a surprise, as the Prime Minister seeks different measures than the candidate for a minister. So we can see that there's a big breakthrough here. Also within the other members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a major disagreement has recently been raised in connection with the proposed economic measures by the candidate, as well as, which is particularly important, by the Minister for Finance, who, according to our assessment, is taking on a good part of the competence. As you know, in the framework of the public financial acts, we have withdrawn funds from the Ministry of Finance and allocated them to the new Ministry. So the first dilemma that I am trying to raise and that I believe has succeeded is, of course, the coordinated work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or of the executive branch. Why is this so important? Because the government is a carrier of macroeconomic measures, which appear mainly in the economy and beyond then in the development and life of society. As we know, economic measures are made up of both monetary measures and tax measures. Both of them, or the combination of them, will now be largely in the hands of the new minister, which we now confirm. That is why it is still important to get a guarantee, not only by the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, but, of course, to assure the government in its entirety that the guidelines set out in the economic measures are guidelines that all members of the government believe. But unfortunately, we can't confirm that. As we know, one member of the government has already announced a different thinking. As we know, another member of the government has already announced a different thinking. And, of course, where will we then go with the misplaced or better worded proposals, which are so very different, that they will not follow this so-called reform. Secondly, I must point out that I personally, and I believe that my fellow Members of the SNS Group, too, do not believe in the proposal for economic measures signed by Mr Damjan, which are within the framework of the Government's reform material. These proposals are simply not addressed to Slovenia today, so they are not pointed at this time and this place where we are today. And they are pursuing a different goal, as I would like to point out once again, in the beginning Mr Prime Minister Janez Janša pointed out, this is a blessing for all. I will only touch on economic measures, because, as I said at the outset, we believe that the future minister will work on the basis of his past work and the written measures in the economic field are his actions. We therefore estimate that this should be the only argument for support or, of course, against support. Some speakers, or in some of the views expressed by the parliamentary groups, have voiced quite a few criticisms about the single tax rate, which is why I am not going to touch this area in my next appearance. I would like to point out that this is one of those goals that are completely contrary to that deadline at the beginning, a blessing for all. The fact is that the single tax rate will reflect 75% of everyday life goods or 75% of products for all people who go to trade daily. I believe that this percentage, so that 75% of the basic necessities of life will rise, doesn't hurt anyone in this room. I also know that neither one of you or us is looking at changing the prices of those basic necessities of life, because they do not represent any special expenditure for us. But I think that all of us here, who make up the legislative branch of power, should look at the broader dimension, the dimension of the Republic of Slovenia or of all citizens and citizens as part of our decision-making. We must not forget people with low purchasing power, and unfortunately there are more and more in our country and we should adapt to economic reforms. To these people, to this layer or to this crowd, however you wish, you should adapt the economic measures that would reflect that they should not have to choose daily among the types of basic necessities of life. But of course, tax reform, once again, I will say which, according to the Prime Minister, is supposed to make it possible for prosperity for everyone to do just the opposite, and the price of the vast majority of basic necessities of life will rise. If it's a blessing for everyone, I don't think it is. I don't think any of the 90 Members should have said that. I do not think that the Prime Minister should insist on this and that the Prime Minister should not seek such measures. The following is also discussed in the area of economic action, i.e. by those measures that are somewhat more or less proposed by the candidate to try to mitigate the impact of the single tax rate by reforming the social transfer system and the labour market, but if we look at the last year and look at the acts that have been carried out in the economic field, we see that, for 2006 and 2007, we are in the framework of public financial acts, and I will start again, I see that unfortunately in the field of public financial acts for 2006 and 2007 we have reduced the resources for active employment policy, we see that unfortunately we have reduced social transfers in 2006 and 2007, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its, as it should be called, the biten or whatever, you know what it is saying, but it is speaking in reverse, that the reform of the system of the [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u29	Mr. Pache, I'm afraid I have to warn you too. This went a little over, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u30	Vice-President Pavliha, I know that it is difficult to direct the debate, and I know, on the other hand, that the appointment of a minister for such an important area should allow for a debate through which a visible work, the work of the candidate so far, because only through the work of the candidate so far can we anticipate the future work of the candidate. And our task is to take into account all those elements that have been the result of Mr Damian's work so far. But if you won't let me talk about social transfers, I find you've come closer to government policy. In the following prosperity for all, as Mr Janša has said, are of course very interesting, I think of course very flawed, including economic measures in the area of the pension system. As we see, the proposed candidate for the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at least follows the objective of extending working time on paper. This, of course, destroys all those who will be constitutional categories or human categories of pensions, namely, that the pension is an agreement, an intergenerational agreement that those who are able and active will not be able to do their jobs for themselves and for those who do so, whether because of age or anything else, can no longer do so. This category in the economic field by measures, as proposed by the future minister, does not coincide, so we are violating or attempting to violate and oppose the basic category in the area of the pension system. The health system in which economic thought is unfortunately introduced, which includes a very good part of the measures proposed by today's candidate, I will not say a year, but rather a difficult one to privatise. In other words, this area, namely the health system, will be subject to the proposal of the Minister responsible for the coordination and implementation of goods, or more specifically, disadvantages, market legality. Health will become a category on the market and none of us should strive to make health a category on the market. We can't afford it, not us, not the government, no one in this country, so the rich can buy health, and the poor won't be able to buy it. The next talk was on promoting competitiveness. Promoting competitiveness in terms of pursuing the objective of prosperity for all, but to stress that it has not been on the labour market, nor in the existing parts, exposed to those measures that would actually boost economic competitiveness, should be based on the law on the prevention of restrictions on competition, the law on acquisitions or the law on companies. As we can see, on the basis of the government's work so far, the National Assembly has met with the Law on Economic Companies, but in a form that does not refer to or which does not entangle us with the words of Mr Janša "mildness for all". And what we think is very important or could be said almost the most important is the so-called second wave of privatisation. I know, we all know that in the coalition contract that you will monitor and implement through the future minister, you have written that, in other words, you do not want domestic owners. To make it easier for you to like it more European or more globally, depending on what moment you are talking about that the owners of Slovenian good work, once Slovenian economy, become foreigners or foreign capital. And in his works, which the representative or candidate for a minister includes in the proposal for reforms in the economic field for which he is in charge, it is said that there is a great desire for so-called international participation, and nowhere is what we have been exposing in the Slovenian National Party's delegation over the past 8 years, thus calculating the absorption power of the domestic economy, to see what the interest of us, the Slovenes and the Slovenians is to enter into this area of economic life is at all. No, but in the economic area of privatisation, for which he will also be in charge, at least in the form of implementation, the candidate for a minister does not talk about calculations, neither about vision, nor about the possibility of establishing domestic strong economic operators. Within the following few points, which are attributed to the future working relationship or to the circle of the future minister, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Minister, who will carry out all of this, wishes to include additional private capital in the form of a public private partnership. How should the parliamentary group, or Members, seriously believe in the pursuit and implementation of this objective by the future minister, if we see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have any established or basic starting points for the so-called roof concession law, which is the basis for a public-private partnership. According to our assessment, either the candidate or the Prime Minister would expect at least the basic answers to the dilemmas raised if Mr Janez Janša were genuinely trying to achieve his words, a blessing for all. Well, and allow me to conclude - to leave some time with my fellow Members and colleagues - to point out the last of the very important dilemmas which, according to our assessment, are negatively aimed at the development of our country. This is a fight for greater efficiency of public economic services. You all know that in Slovenia too, unfortunately, this government, and also the future minister, has not indicated anywhere that he will fight or fight against the dual status of one and the same companies. And how can someone then imagine and today tell us the prosperity of everything unless it destroys the basic economic anomalies in our country. If he is not trying to at least present in his presentation, whether he is on his mother's working body, or whether the Prime Minister says here today, the measures will be that, that and that. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that reforms are necessary, but not the reforms that are ahead of us today, nor the reforms that have been written in good part by the candidate for a minister - these are bad reforms. And if the National Assembly, and I believe it will confirm the Minister, the State Assembly, in the form of the voting practice so far, will of course confirm, legislate all those ideas that I have now indicated by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group that they are bad, and those reforms, or those measures, or the implementation of the laws that the National Assembly will adopt, will be implemented by the future Minister. Because the future minister will organise and carry out this work, which will not work for the well-being of all. We will not support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I apologize to my colleague Pečet if I am too close to someone with a business approach or maybe too far away from someone. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. It's Dr. Slavinec's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! In opening, let me express my joy that the candidate we have today is an undisputed expert, at least that's what many of his colleagues say. Above all, it is important that the resident colleagues also recognise the expertise of Dr Damjan, not just political ones. That is why I prefer to believe these assessments, and I will not dare to judge his expertise, I am not in this field, and because he doubts that he will be elected today, he is probably not among us, I want a happy hand in the administration of the Ministry, which will have to worry and coordinate the work of many ministries. However, with these good wishes, concern remains, as is perhaps not the fastest to some goal, always the shortest path, so of course also the economically most rational and professionally defined by one of the theories, path and solution is not the best for people and the progress of the Republic of Slovenia. This is about structural changes and structural changes of such a type that should indicate that our development should be geared towards better, but I stress that we need to understand better for everyone here. It is essential to harmonise the interests of all those who participate in these processes, i.e. all those involved, so that everyone will feel progress, not just some. And right here, with less sensitivity to this coordination, many see a marked absence of social sense from the candidate. Many, in particular in Pomour, have been surprised by the statement that in 2012 the last worker will be retired, even if this analysis is correct, even if it is true that 4400 employees will be left unemployed at the time and that some 20 000 people in Pomura will be involved, not the work of the future minister to set up analyses, but to propose such structural changes that will not be remedial, but improve, which will result in such structural transformation that these workers will be able to make faster progress in this area. I also found relatively revolutionary certain thoughts related to agricultural subsidies to be abolished. Certainly, the view is that where the added value is greater, where it is worth more to invest, from people to people in different ways. However, the environment in which we live needs to be taken into account that we are a member of the European Union and that this European Union has a specific policy towards food production and that I see the opportunity to make the most of these options, and this would be one of the structural changes that people would like to see and most welcome as they expect. In the case of structural changes we have already heard, a lot of hot blood has led to a proposal for a uniform tax rate, and even then proposals for a coerced settlement have been seen. With the forced settlement, Dr Damjan came to Pomurje a good year ago, who needs a compulsory administration, and he probably wants to do the same now - so some statements have been made for the whole of Slovenia. However, I stress that Slovenia is not bankrupt or has not been bankrupt until recently, and that is why it is not best to imitate the countries that are in such a state. And I stress that Slovenia does not need foreign capital to pay taxes for its independence, to pay compensation for it, as countries that are now examples in this area to set our tax rate. Here, of course, I have in mind the outflow of capital which will happen with such a tax policy and with such structural reforms to foreigners and, of course, privatisation. And the privatisation of this type has already raised many of our neighbours in the short term, but now, after ten years, they feel the difference, they feel after ten years that stalemate of progress. And in the end, of course, I come from the university myself, and I'm very surprised by the statement that evaluates the quality of our university system in one word, sucks. It surprises me that Dr. Damian himself comes from our university system. If he decided to enter politics in order to get the tool to fix this system, then that's fine. However, in this place, I certainly express my conviction that there is no generalisation and that, in so far as parts of the university system are concerned, it is not right and it is right then to generalise on the entire university system and all throws in the same basket, but to improve only those who can improve who need this improvement. But those who are already good at giving them opportunities for even faster development. It does not have to be much help, it is only a matter of being able to fly on their own, whether at university level, whether it is in the economy or a wider society than it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I invite the next one to Mr. Kumer's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, dear colleagues and colleagues. Given that I am a member of the opposition, who does not normally participate in the drafting of staff proposals for ministers, I will therefore also try to avoid the valuable assessments and judgements of the nominee minister himself, Dr Damjan. This is a matter of government, it is a matter of coalition and it is also a responsibility to elect a minister in the hands of the ruling majority in this National Assembly. So there is absolutely no reason for Mr Damjan to get my vote of support. But he can get it later when he's in his job and if he tries to get rid of it by interpolation. At that time, I will have the opportunity to make an reasoned assessment of the eligibility of the replacement with the work done. On this occasion, I will take advantage of my five minutes and make some assessments and views on the reform project, because, last but not least, he spoke about them in the presentation of the Prime Minister's candidate, and he has taken a great deal of time to represent the largest parliamentary party. So, he assessed something in the reform package, which is also still a government coalition package for now, as he stressed nine times in his opening address a representative of the largest parliamentary party and government coalition and will try to implement the new minister without a ticket with his team. There is no doubt that changes in the majority are always a positive view of the future, so Slovenia needs a new development paradigm in order to open up new paths from the shrinking, fast-tracked model of managing a large part of social affairs, not just the economy and the economy. And here's that knot that's already starting to question whether this thing, as it's written in this reform package, is real. In fact, the image and interpretation of the world through this reform package is extremely liberal, the market and all its size is that magical stick of capitalism that creates prosperity for people. This is how it is written in this package, and this is how all measures, both social and economic development, are directed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u35	Mr Kumer, I must also warn you as I have everyone else, please, about the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u36	I'm talking about the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u37	We have said that we will not discuss reforms, the past, the future and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u38	I take the position on the introduction of the Prime Minister who presented the candidate for Minister, I do nothing else, and the reasons for the reforms. So please, Mr. President, don't interrupt me. Once again, social and economic development through this reform package is conditioned exclusively by capital owners, while the country as regulator is very helpful in protecting the profits and assets of this capital, or, in other words, the wealthier and more capable. So, express your minorities. In the Slovenian situation, when we went through the transition process in which these capital owners became people from different layers in very different ways, in the vast majority, not based on their knowledge, the ability of developmental breakthroughs, but earlier paradigms, they were at the right place at the right time, in the transition process such an approach is questionable. Therefore, the programme also places very little emphasis on the flexibility of the capital market, but there is much talk in the labour market flexibility package, for reasons of the fact that the capital market is directly built on the power of politics, clientele, participatory and state bureaucracy, which we all have the opportunity to monitor every day when it comes from selling in a non-transparent way state shares in companies and so on. That being so, we have the opportunity to see it in this national assembly. For example, when we adopted a decision last week on the divestment of Telekom's state assets and some other companies. The reform package, the tutor of which is today's candidate for minister, is one, sets out transparency, a planned withdrawal on the basis of programmes and so on, and the government has come to this national assembly with a completely different plan. On the contrary, in a non-transparent way, without a program or anything like that. So, on the one hand, we have a package of reform policies, one of which is most exposed to the future Minister Dr Damjan, who advocates this package exclusively with political views. Here today's candidate is already a real master and on the other hand we have non-reform policies, i.e. the government and this well-educated coalition majority in this National Assembly, who are making daily economics with measures of their own measure, or in other words, this is a total contradiction to the reform project. However, it is in line with the interests of the new economic elite and political assistance. And two more words about a single tax rate. Not only are there no comparative calculations and simulations of what that would mean. It is surprising that all small countries around us are operating with completely different social and motivational tools. They maintain some progressive taxation, they seek different forms of partnership, they seek consensus among different target groups and so on. Because small social communities, like us in Slovenia, seek national consensus, engagement and inclusion of as many populations as possible. We do it the other way around. Rather with an authoritarian position, rather than looking for the widest possible support. In short, if this single tax rate and an authoritarian approach were indeed a Santa Claus or Santa Claus, countries would do so in our immediate and distant vicinity. In short, I believe that a demanding project can not only be carried out with the warmth of those currently in power, but also with this warmth limping, but only with a broader social consensus and engagement. And here's to Mr. Damian the hardest part. But, as I said at the outset, Mr Damjan is primarily the political "play maker" of this reform package, which has excellently progressed in reforming and may be able to attract other groups of people to reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Of course, I am aware that again it is very difficult to define the subject and it is also very difficult to speak only about the candidate and his qualities. That is why I will allow a debate, which also relates to the strategy for the development of Slovenia, that is to say, from a perspective, because this is the service that he will lead and is linked to it. Otherwise, I can quote Article 75 all the time and warn you, but obviously nothing will help. Please concentrate on the candidate in connection with the strategy for the development of Slovenia, because this service will be carried out alone. It's Mr Posedel's turn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. I promise I won't be long in the debate, I won't turn around, and I'll even talk only about the candidate and even with his words in one piece. With great interest, I expected a hearing from the Economics Committee. In view of the fact that I monitored his articles, his sharpness, his assessment of the state of Slovenia, the assessment of ministers, the assessment of the government, the assessment of the Prime Minister, I was slightly surprised at the hearing by the first sentence he stated, namely that his wife paid lunch to all members of the committee if we did not confirm him. I think it's his sentence and he surprised me. Because if you're going to a position like this, you probably need support at home. From what he said in his articles, there was nothing at that hearing. He was very cognizant, he was looking for a social agreement, he was looking for interlocutors, he was open to all ideas, which means that reform as such does not sit enough to defend it from five veins, as it is said. His assessments of the composition of ministers were very sharp, in particular by the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Labour, and he assessed them very hard, as conservative, and probably some other ministers, so that they are more guided by work than by ministers. This then greatly softened the hearing, as if the composition were good, presented no idea of what to change in this session in order to be more successful. Just as there was a great lack in how he could coordinate his work as a secretary without a charter. We know the government law, where the powers of ministers are very clearly recorded and I cannot imagine, and even the candidate for a minister could not explain how and by what means he could influence individual ministers in inter-departmental coordination, which he voiced a lot of criticism. So these are also the two main reasons that, I will say, are that I cannot support this candidate for minister in this work, which relates only to his work. I am even more concerned about the second part, which is that its main motive to be a minister is to make a good economic programme, to bring prosperity, but the prosperity that he understands, or as he represented it, is probably not what most Slovenians want. Blaginja, where everything is a cost and prosperity is only a gain and it is a prosperity and success only more capital, is certainly not the goal we want in Slovenia. In a society where the book is a cost, where culture is a cost, where children are a cost, where social costs are probably not a welfare society, and this is the emphasis that seems most important to me. Since I am the mayor of the congregation, it seems to me that we do not act in the spirit of planned reforms because we are building a branch school for 36 children. We can get this to one bus and drive them to another school a few miles away, but we understand that the prosperity of a certain environment, a particular place, is also that the school is in a small place, even for a small number of people, but it is true that it is economically unwarranted. For this reason, it seems to me that the direction of this society is not good if we follow only what is called capital and that the reforms that are certainly necessary must be put into this social sense. And when I compared Mr Damian's statements, the proposal was that when he became a candidate and the statements made by Mr Damjan at the hearing itself, I said at that time that I did not believe in a stylistic transformation that quickly, and that is why I would not vote in favour of his candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša's mandate was to expand the team. Apparently, this one is too weak now, and it has this possibility, even though there is a risk that it will relax the existing ministerial team, but not connect. But as a matter of fact, he's got this option. Dear Ambassadors and others! It's a good thing you're going to vote on a minister without a ticket, because it can be a great pity if you vote on a minister with a ticket. Why do I say that? The experiment is very dangerous to play and the proposed reforms coordinated by Dr. Jože P. Damjan are experiments and juggling with the country in a rather cynical way. Reforms are proposed in an exclusive way. Cynical isn't just the Prime Minister who trades with, say, cancel or mess with them if they want to choose a better burden if they want to say something. He is also cynical with Dr. Jože P. Damjan, who comes to the conclusion that those who oppose the reforms are so old conservatives, and in this place Prime Minister Janez Janša and his associates assist with this cynicism, because even for Mr Mencinger, they feel that he is no longer a good member of the Council of the Autumn High School. Dr. Jože P. Damjan comes to the conclusion in a record in Del that anyone who is anti-reformor is anti-reforming is old-fashioned, ignorant, unreasonable, uncreative, ignorant to the point that he is anti-reforming. And it even draws attention to the example of the advanced ideas of Primož Trubar, on which we are today, as it says, all proud, conservative old economists who doubt his reforms or reforms of Janša, deductively linked to the orthodox Catholic anti-reform of the present time. Mr. J. P. Damjan, if you are accompanying this session, Primož Trubar, Primož Trubar, the counter-reformators of the book have been burned, you are today proposing the burning of books with taxation, which will not really creminate the book, but will encourage it and thus distance it. And here is the question of who is the reformer and who is the anti-reformator in this story. In the strategy for the development of Slovenia, which Mr Janša spoke about today, national identity and culture builds on, quote, "the establishment of an enabling environment for creativity and greater accessibility of cultural goods," end of quote. However, if the introduction of a single tax rate from now on increases to 20%, tickets for cultural events, exhibitions, theatres, museums, cinemas, books, magazines, newspapers, events and many other services will be significantly encouraged. At that time, it will be difficult to talk about an enabling environment, which is enshrined in the strategy, and even less about accessibility to cultural goods, as they will be accessible to closed and richer and more elitist circles. And in this context, the government and the reformists do not care that the promises of cultural prosperity and disasters brought about by tax reforms are at stake. And if you once were dear colleagues from government parties, when you were still in the opposition when you did not rule, you protested that Slovenia did not choose a zero rate for the book, today you are agreeing to its 20% taxation, and without delay you claim that there is no exception to the single tax rate. Shut up the fact that the situation in culture in Slovakia is at the edge of sustainability and in severe proportions, as well as the fact that the Swedish positive experience when the value added tax on books was reduced from 25 % to 6 %, that this fact meant a boom in the sales of publishing activities. In fact, Mr Damjan will also silence all experience, as he lacks any analysis of the consequences of the envisaged reforms, which will also have an impact on culture. And if the culture is the founder of the Slovenian people, as we always hear it, then the government should not play with its reform in the way of putting the thesis first, and then seek a tool for its realization. In the proposal for reforms advocated by Dr. P. Damjan, the most common expressions of marketability, competitiveness, efficiency, transparency, growth, dynamics are. We don't seem to meet with identity and cultural populism. Reformers point to the emergence of an existing tax system that is expected to absorb ever-increasing reliefs, talk about the exploitation of transfers and the questionable subsidisation of individuals and so on. And it is not difficult to conclude that there are also culturers among the subsidized, so-called privileged. Because Jože Pavlič Damjan himself once said in an interview: "...that our culture is similar to agriculture, another of the sacred cows..." and that, I quote, "Slovenian national identity is not threatened as long as the cultures in Slovenia have privileged status." Dear colleagues in the NSI coalition! In your programme, you say that we should increase the money for culture and that we should reduce or eliminate the tax on books. In the programme, you also claim that culture should not be just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u43	Mrs. Shirca, this is a bit of a derogation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u44	in the domain of cultural elites or large urban centres. [[...]] And after the proposed reforms advocated by Dr. Jože Pavlič Damjan, it is precisely the elite thing - and the new elites, we know what they are presenting us. We are presented by those who follow the pattern of members of the strategic world. If I just finish. Mr Tanko initially said that Mr Damjan's success would be our joint success. His experiment could also be our common doom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I'm so sorry there's no candidate here. The business arrangement is just like it is, a little weird, though. On the Committee on the Economy itself, Mr President has demonstrated himself for a very long time and widely, and of course, his own knowledge, which is certainly very extensive, will try to explain how this implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and the reform that is out there, and I think that this theoretical work of knowledge would be difficult for anyone to tell the candidate that he does not know the matter for which he will be responsible in this government and which the Prime Minister has also proposed and today is also the subject of this item of the agenda of our National Assembly. Reforms, I am convinced that they are urgently needed in Slovenia. Perhaps it is a little late, and I also believe that it is not too late, and that, with the joint efforts of the government as well as of parliament, we will certainly be able to carry out. A very demanding project of the Slovenian government, which is also ultimately entrusted to the author or co-author of this important story, to today's candidate, who will have to implement it through the Slovenian government, through his ministry, his team. I believe that I know that it descends into an extremely sensitive, slippery area, and above all a very difficult area. It's not gonna be a simple job. This will be difficult to work with a lot of concession, consensus, with a lot of coordination and negotiation. And if it doesn't go that way, then I can say in advance that it's going to be difficult. However, I believe in his abilities, in his knowledge, which he has also shown on the Committee on the Economy itself, that he can do so, that he wants this to be a new challenge and that he has enough support in the knowledge he has given, or not so much in his experience, so he is unfortunately not from the economy, more on this second basis, but this is his opportunity to show to all of us that he has really decided on this job, which for some time has been decided to know that he is going into this story. I also believe that there is a great deal to say about this prosperity here today, what is prosperity, that is a fairly relative concept, that prosperity for all will probably never be and never has been, but I would also like that prosperity to be as balanced among the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia as possible, so that even that small person, which we often forget, we miss, this reform does not hurt. And that is what I am very skeptical about around a single tax rate, and I believe that there is a word going on about this, analysis, negotiation, coordination, quite simply, I do not buy it yet, because it seems to me that the matter is not fully proven that it could be acceptable for all our citizens. This ministry and, of course, the candidate itself, who will lead it, will in particular have very clear powers if he wants to coordinate the Slovenian government, the ministry, the Directorates, etc. I say from my own experience that this is extremely difficult and that even if the Minister does not receive strong support from the Prime Minister, he will certainly be very difficult to carry out this task. I believe that the President and the candidate have agreed on this and that they will carry out this story together with ease, because it is in the interests of both the Prime Minister and the candidate and probably the entire government, that these reforms, however, will be carried out in a firm, coordinated manner. I know it won't be easy, it'll be extremely hard. As I have already said, I think that the candidate for the minister has all these references that he needs for this leadership, a lot of knowledge and are the author of this important Slovenian story that will happen - I hope to succeed, I am an optimist. I believe that even as many do, I consider you to be acting. The results are those who measure the success, the policy, the success of the minister and the concrete results of this reform, whether this team, I will say, under the leadership of the coordinator, Mr P. Damian, will successfully implement it, will show time. In football, they count naked, in the company the satisfaction of the employees, the result and profit, and in politics the result is the electorate. So if this story is successfully implemented for the benefit of Slovenia, all citizens and of course these reforms have achieved their effect, which, according to my assessment, most of us here in Parliament and citizens want and want and can do, but I believe that this and all that is written is applied. This will require a lot of activity, but also, as I have already said, coordination in life, because everything on paper sometimes does not hold up. This is usually the case, so I believe that even all the appeals made by many initiators, that this single tax rate is not the best - and probably not - will have to be given about it in such a way that it is always found if it is to be on both sides to come out with one good result that will be acceptable to all. The evidence of 350 million may be on the spot in the sense that it is a lot of money, but at the same time, if these reforms succeed, it is a negligible amount, which means nothing in the structure of the state budget, in the structure of the story that can happen for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The President has chosen, I think it was the expected choice, I believe he trusts this candidate to believe that he will perform this story that he will be asked to perform, and that he will successfully carry out his difficult work, this strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, and I am confident that he will give as many goals as possible, that he will be as many goals as possible, which count the results in football. As a candidate, I wish him, above all, a successful job on this new team, I suppose, and I believe that today he will receive this number of votes in this House and that he will become a minister. But tomorrow is a new day when there will be no time or rest, despite the fact that the holidays are ahead of us and will have to start decisively with its work, from which we expect it to be done in Parliament, the government and, above all, the citizens with concrete results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Jože Damjan has decided on a radical reform. He decided to take a hard pass. I hope that Mr Damjan is aware of how much work is required for such a way of reformist creation, and I hope he is aware of how much greater his responsibility is due to the radical reformist path. Mr Jože Damjan walks on the edge of the social and monetary sphere, which is thin as a razor. Mr Jože P. Damjan decided on his own path and, as far as I know, refused to cooperate and to work with the Kranjč Committee as well. Mr. Jože P. Damjan has set his back on which the spears will break. You know, there are two kinds of people in this room, those who support and support a radical approach, and others who support a soft transition and gradual reform. And we have every right to those who are not for radicalism, to say no, without political connotations, without shame and without obvious. There's only one story that convinced me, and I'm going to do it in plastic. In the good old days, the Rudar football club from Trbovlje was made up of Knaps, Trbovljejčev and came from the third league to the second, then they bought foreigners who successfully brought the Rudar back to the third league in the second league. I hope I told you everything. These foreigners are coming, and I hope they don't put us in the third league. With this, I have made it clear that I am not in favour of radical reforms, and that is why I will not support the candidate, but I wish him good luck, and he will need this happiness because he also bears absolute responsibility for radical reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Skolcz to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much. So, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Vice President! The Prime Minister proposes a Minister without a charter, this will be a coordinator for some 70 measures and a consequent change at this point in time to an unknown number of regulations. What does that mean? Does this mean that the new Minister will have the power to interfere with the work of virtually all his fellow ministers? Does this possibly mean a mistrust by the Prime Minister to his own team of ministers? Of course, it can also mean something else, an unacceptable transfer of the coordinating functions of the Prime Minister to his authorised representative, who will be named Minister without a licence. Both are bad and both are contrary to the constitutional and legal framework governing the position of the government in our political system. This should also be taken into account in the proposal for this appointment. Mr Janša spoke about the parallel between the European Union's project to bring Slovenia closer to the European Union and the reform project to ensure prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia. This comparison is least exaggerated and certainly missed. It is already flawed in the part where it talks about assumptions, the decision to integrate into European space has been virtually consensual. That's the first difference. The second difference is that the model of approximation to European integration with the Treasury Minister, who took care of these issues, was a practical model that all acceding countries had and was a way of working, in line with, on the one hand, the accessions and, on the other hand, the European Union. And the third thing, reform measures, I do not go into whether they are necessary or not, are certainly part of the work of individual ministries, and so the Constitution is also enshrined in its 110st and 114th Articles. This is where this concept comes into play. This proposal therefore raises the question to me above all whether the Prime Minister is continuing to dismantle - and I want to be perfectly dramatic - the constitutional position of the government and also of individual ministries. It is already working with the appointment of secretaries, for whom it would be more fair to be appointed Commissioners, who will then be loaned from his office to individual ministries. This appointment is likely to mean the continuation of this policy, on the one hand reducing the role of ministers and increasing the position or power of the Prime Minister. Can we agree in this national assembly that we are indirectly weakening the position of ministers? I don't think so, and I think it's dangerous. If anyone has problems with ministers, he has the constitutional and the laws of certain mechanisms to put them in order or replace them if he is deeply displeased with them. The problem with the appointment of Mr Damjan is that he will not have a relatively defined mandate, will not have administrative powers and probably not a sufficiently qualified administration for such a wide range of activities. These are the three elements that question such a decision of the coalition and the government. A poorly prepared project, which is undoubtedly, and from this constitutional point of view will likely mean, for the first time, the duplication of powers, secondly, the separation of administration and thirdly, a potential source of conflicts within the government and between individual ministers. Therefore, I should like to conclude that the Prime Minister's proposal does not only make reform proposals for greater prosperity for Slovenia. With the desire for greater prosperity of Slovenia, we can all agree and also look for ways to get to it. This proposal brings a problem for me, including the suspension of individual provisions governing the parliamentary system. This is certainly more dangerous than the uncertainties brought by reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. In his presentation, the candidate for the Minister without a charter responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia presented an effective system of reforms in which we expect greater economic growth, greater employment and prosperity. This should be achieved through the competitiveness and growth of the Slovenian economy, knowledge, an effective country, which will be an environmentally friendly economy, we will have a modern social state with a sustainable pension system and an effective health system. All I would add to this is that there is a lack of an environmentally friendly economy. Indeed, the whole spectrum, in fact, those I do not see any reservations about not having it in Slovenia. However, I see a great deal of responsibility in the fact that Slovenia is now achieving an enviable level of development and that all these measures will have to be extremely well thought out, that this level will not decrease or actually increase the differences between us, and that the sense of this department may be seen in reducing the narrow political interests that often encourage the ruling coalition to lose that compass, the direction that leads to those goals, as I presented them in the introduction. And the budget, for example, for 2006, 2007 are two important acts that have already been adopted, and I do not think they follow what the Minister without a licence is supposed to do to coordinate the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Here I think it is a crucial problem to put in place a new resource if we do not follow the budget of this thinking. I would like to draw attention to just two things that seem extremely important to me. One is to preserve Slovenia as it is, even in its diversity compared to other countries. It is a dispersed settlement and I think the greatest defeat is for the candidate as long as he allows any area in Slovenia to be emptied. This is a defeat for politics, especially for a minister who would take care of the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. The second thing that I find crucial is, of course, how this asset, which has been returned in the process of denationalisation, has been brought to the stage of development as effectively as possible. The current coalition still thinks that something needs to be added, which gives some additional benefits to this capital, which I think is extremely wrong, because all this property should start returning some capital to the country, not giving it some additional benefits. This is a deviation from this thinking what is happening today in Slovenia and what this sector is supposed to do. And I think that, as a concrete example of this, it is really necessary to point out the following, that the tax package we adopt states that the 20-year speculative deadline for the capital market is acceptable in Slovenia. It is therefore incomparable to other European countries to deal with this extremely large capital. And if this capital does not come into function faster than it did in 20 years, then we cannot talk about having an efficient and flexible country, rapid development, labour market and so on in Slovenia. A very interesting question will also be how to establish the most effective function of the church's property. The church isn't what it was yesterday, it's a whole other institution with this property. But this property, for the time being, we can see that even through banks, through the impact on the economy, does not clearly carry enough resources for the church, as public finances are still expected to cover certain obligations. If this relationship in these reforms, in the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia, will not be implemented in a way that will also solve the key problems, then of course we can talk about the fact that this sector is unnecessary. However, as long as the coalition manages to build on these narrow political interests without them, at least to the extent that they are now enshrined in tax legislation and budgets, then of course we can say that progress will be made. However, whether listening to this is in the coalition or not and whether the Minister will have the power to do so is a question that remains very, very open to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In view of the lack of time, I would focus mainly on the opinion of the future Minister for Reform, Mr Damjan, on the area of local self-government, i.e. on the functioning of the municipalities. The first point I want to make is that the local governments, neither he nor the reformers, do consider them to be of central importance and, of course, do not give him any special role in this regard. Nevertheless, Mr Damjan proposes, first of all, the concentration of resources and institutions for governance and governance, which should be as close as possible as he says, to political decision-making in the country, in relation to the measures we will try to achieve an effective use of the European Union's resources for faster development. This indicates the risk of large centralisation in the decision-making and management of various funds. That is to say, it will be decided in the office of the Prime Minister and since the decision will be taken here, I do not think that there will be any basic role for professional criteria, but that will obviously be political decision-making. In his view, regional development agencies and arrangements are expected to lose their importance, as they are expected to prevail in the light of these different criteria. Apparently, only the obedient will be rewarded, and [[In noodles]] "our regions." It is also interesting that regional development agencies should receive, as has been said, quote, by the reformer, "it should be only project promoters, not their promoters". Such solutions in this area do not seem to be in line with the basic guidelines of the coherent regional development law. However, the aim is to take away the possibility of a more important role for regional and local structures, cooperation and negotiation of a number of partners at the regional level, and all of this is being carried as close to the summit as possible to the headquarters, if I say so, and this will be aid for distribution in terms of political criteria and political objectives. Also, the second conclusion and question concerning local self-government, which I have given to Mr Damian, remains open. This means that by applying a single tax rate of 20% in the area of income, this represents about 20 billion tolls in the financing of municipalities. The future minister does not see any problem in this regard, the exit from this issue is not a problem, it is intended to ensure through perhaps an increased share of income or through value added tax. In doing so, it was clear to me with such a response that there is no concept in fact, no true concept and that it is being taken somewhere, given somewhere and that, in fact, even in global calculations such as I believe the 20 billionth drop in revenue on the account of the municipality is not the right answer and will be sought elsewhere in the future. Last but not least, the Minister also argued that this problem is not at present and that there is no problem where funds will be provided for future regions, which I believe has been repeatedly stressed that the development project is, and that it is nowhere to be seen in his statements or in the financial structures of future Slovenia. Just one small note, which also makes me feel that I cannot support Mr Damjan's candidate, but I will think mainly from the perspective of Slovenian women and perhaps also from the perspective of future pensions. He said in 2004: "It is necessary that already the lower age limit for receiving a full old pension starts to rise to at least 65 years. For women who are highly favoured in the Slovenian pension system, the age limit should be increased faster, for example, twice as fast as before." In short, there is very little talk about his views on pension reform, but it is clear that Mr Damjan's vision is focused on the fact that all of us have a substantial increase in our retirement working time, in particular, clearly regardless of how much he talks about his family and his wife, he also thinks poorly of women, whom, I think, the first in Slovenia, who says we are privileged and favoured, and that we must equalize this privilege as soon as possible, so that I can support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Ljublješek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Initially, Mr Vice-President, I would like to commend you for the wise conduct of this debate, so that you allow Members to draw a red thread in their debate. It would be hard to talk only about the candidate as a person, whether he's beautiful or not, whether he has a spice or not, or whether he's happy in marriage and so on. I myself believe that we are talking about whether we need a minister without a licence, and if, why, why, and ultimately, whether a candidate is suitable for that minister. In opening, I would like to point out that I support the proposed ministerial candidate, as well as the establishment of a reform service for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The professional references of Dr. Damjan confirm that this is an extremely high, professional, theoretically qualified expert, whom I believe he will know and be able to link theory to practice. In his presentation on the parental committee, he presented very convincingly and understandingly the structure of economic and social reforms at the end, supported by concretely illustrated variant calculations. I also fully agree with Dr Damjan's opinion that today we can say that we have a clear strategic objective in Slovenia: to increase employment and social well-being. To achieve this, however, we must increase the competitiveness and growth of the economy, which is not possible without the great input of knowledge. Knowledge and courage, they ensure, are the most important factors in all this story. Investments in knowledge are needed because this only allows innovation, which brings new products of higher added value, which increase productivity, economy, higher economic growth, new jobs, reduce unemployment and ensure greater social security and ultimately the well-being of all. For all of this, reforms are still needed, as the indicators where we are today are: in Slovenia only 20% of companies are innovative, in Ireland 65%, in Germany 61%. Which shows the innovation that we understand and know more about in Slovenia - what is the proportion of exports of high technology products. In Slovenia, that's 5%. We are better Slovaks, Czechs, Greeks, Portuguese, even in Bulgaria. Only Albanians and Poles are worse than us. The Estonians, Lithuanians, Croats, Russians and Hungarians are better than us. In Hungary, this proportion is 24%; in Ireland, 46% of total exports are high-tech products. In Slovenia, let me repeat, only 5%. It is certain that in recent years we have made a grave mistake, something has been very wrong. Because no one is going to convince me that the Slovenians aren't working hard enough, that we don't know, and that we can't do as much as we all did. Some developed countries have already implemented reforms, some have implemented them, some are still thinking about them, some of them do not yet understand them. And where is Slovenia in all this? International studies show that when a country approaches a certain level of development, economic growth starts to decline slowly, may become null or even negative. Slovenia will approach this in the next five to ten years. If nothing is done and changes are needed now, a mental transformation of society and individuals is needed, on the basis of which the objectives are clearly defined, defined tasks and carried out activities and measures. As the political motto of some in the last month is that reforms will make the poor even poorer and rich richer, I cannot help but ask again who has made it possible for some to become immensely rich and others to become poor. I believe that Dr. Damian and I will do everything in the coalition to ensure that the rich will not be unfairly richer, but the poor much less poor. Reforms are intended to create a modern social state that will provide decent life for all, including those who will be less successful in the economic development process, in order to ensure their safety and human life, a quality health and sustainable pension system. I was very surprised by the apparent unrest of opposition colleagues on my parent's working body when Dr Damjan presented concrete calculations of the impact of the single tax rate on individual income classes. Examples show that the claims made by opponents of reforms are not accurate. I expected opposition colleagues, given that economics among them are serious and concrete professional issues, opinions, proposals and initiatives in view of such a media-negative single tax rate and its effects on the lower vulnerable population. Instead, there was a procedural protest to stop the lecture, and the candidate should only answer the questions raised. This was followed by questions that had little or nothing to do with the content of the agenda. Dr. Damian was told, for example, that he acted as a turbo candidate, loaded with all the information that he had learned too little politics, that there was no politics, that his statements were completely unpolitical, that he had been underconstant in the preceding period, too much grave, too little caution in his statements. I quote, "so you can see that you weren't a politician." And I quote, "that in this program, in this mouse mass, in this unit, in addition to some measures, which are also extremely problematic and even dilettarian." Most of all, I found it problematic to change my mind. That is why I admire Dr Damian that he still agrees to his candidacy. This shows his strong character and resilience. Let me repeat what I said before, those were low blows. As far as politics is concerned, it is necessary to integrate into politics, because some things can only be changed by integrating yourself into politics. As for changing my mind, as Dr. Damian's point of view, this is: what I myself have believed for many years, it seems, is naive and almost certain, I am not anymore today. This year, I changed my mind on many things and on many, respected fellow opposition. And I'm sure I'm not the only one. A man in his life knows the truth and the error. The draft economic and social reforms are too important to address such issues as they wish to discredit Dr Damjan in a very inappropriate and offensive way. With this way of discussing colleagues from the LDS and SD, which has already been on the working body and is also showing today, I wonder whether opposition colleagues are only being misled, even though they had a clear empirical presentation before them, whether it is criticism, defiance and opposition due to the lost opportunity of the previous government and government, which had no vision, knowledge and will, nor the power and courage to initiate and implement a similar reform project. Only those who have never run important projects can say that this reform project does not need central leadership or that it can be run by a finance minister or any other minister. They talk about the non-necessity of a reform service, the need for a minister without a licence, and only those have the potential for unnecessary costs for this service. This is an extremely complex interdisciplinary project that interferes with systemic and organisational measures in all government departments. Therefore, it must be centrally guided by a government service of its own. He must have the most competent guardian, that is, the Prime Minister. And who best manages and coordinates the project like the one that was designed and defined by the expert team? Economic and social reforms mean, in my opinion, a national project for this country, since it is the future of Slovenia, the perspective of young people, social and labour security of the population, the security of the older population and, last but not least, the greater social well-being of everyone in this country. This project can be set aside by projects of Slovenia's independence and Slovenia's entry into the EU and NATO. The most interesting thing about this is that it is publicly opposed by most of the same people as they have opposed these projects. When some want the changes that will lead us forward, some scrupulously show opposition to their blackness, pessimism, with public protests, with vetoes. They simply defend the acquired privileges with all their power. Despite these oppositions and pessimisms, the same people always have the same past show that most Slovenians can make it possible to make it possible at critical times. That is why I trust the Minister's candidate, the government, the Prime Minister as the custodian of this project and also the general public, and above all this High Council, that we together will be able to do so much wisdom, that we will successfully carry out and implement this project, because the future belongs to the brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, Members, the distinguished representative of the Government, all very welcome, I also welcome all those who, in any way, accompany today's meeting, especially today's candidate, Dr Jožet Pavlič Damjan. Living in a civilized world today is marked by the fact that we are almost under stress. The globalized world is an extremely dynamic world that often forgets the dignity of man, the values. The only constant of modern times, the only constant is change. The introductory part of the strategy for the development of Slovenia adopted in June this year states that the strategy focuses on the overall welfare of each individual and individual. This is certainly a quality direction that not only uses abstract categories, such as the category of the economy, but touches the individual with sensitivity. This is why the strategy focuses not only on economic issues but also on social, environmental, political and legal and cultural relations. The strategy for the development of Slovenia is also, by its content, a strategy for the sustainable development of Slovenia. At the same time, it means transferring the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy into our national Slovenian environment, taking into account the new opportunities and new opportunities of Slovenia, and also taking into account the backlogs of Slovenia. The document was written in writing and adopted. If we are serious, if we want the letter written on paper to come to life, if we sincerely want Slovenia to have a development breakthrough, each citizen must make a responsible contribution. Some, respected colleagues and colleagues, have quite a responsibility. Reforms are today the reality of Europe, according to my assessment, with too little acceleration. Brussels' response to reforms is expected; responsibility for the European Union's development agenda is returning to its members; the Slovenian government has obviously rushed. It has taken the reforms primarily as its own development policy and not the other way around, so the European Union is simply certifying programmes and domestic measures and that is a good thing. Reforms are not about giving up European values, such as high levels of prosperity, social cohesion and solidarity, quality of life, accessibility to education and health, on the contrary. Changes and modernisation of European policies are precisely necessary in order to preserve these values in an increasingly dynamic and globalised world. Globalisation is not what is mistakenly thought to be but the outflow of poorly paid jobs and the profits of a country with lower social standards. On the contrary. New competitors are jeopardising Europe in areas that until recently have been seen as an undisputed comparative advantage of the developed world. And here I see many reasons to fear what can happen to us in Slovenia if we do not respond in time to globalisation. You must already know that China has already outrun the United States and has become the world's largest exporter of information and technology and communication equipment. Slovenia's reform drive is also taking very concrete forms today. Today we will be sure, we will contribute to this, we will confirm the Minister without a charter responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. To Dr. Jožet Pavlič Damian, I really want a lot of success in the responsible work. They will, as planned, be for the benefit of all Slovenian citizens and citizens. In order to implement the adopted reform framework, which the government has already adopted, we need political consensus and not political meetings, as was the recent one, at which some in the third millennium almost again in the heart of Europe have allowed the manipulation of the people they have brought to the streets, and some unfortunately did not even know why they are demonstrating or freezing. The year to come will be 2006 in particular the year of political compromises and economic pragmatism. However, I would also like to see that the next reform steps make it satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u60	Dear colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u61	And only Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u62	colleagues, honourable presidents. [[...]] As far as I understand your instructions, Mr President, today we are saying 'ad personam', not 'ad rem'. Good. I like that even better. I mean, Mr. Jožet Pavlič Damjan or J.P. Damjan doesn't know much, but of course I've read a lot of what he said. And such a man, of course, who likes to say something like that, who doesn't tame his words, which comes to mind, who has such a verbal "ejaculatio precox" of course I can't support. On the other hand, I do not allow him to get rid of his wife so cheaply and to pay the taxpayers 350 million, of course, he will lose his wife and enjoy this life. I'll tell you all of you who are defending this, don't sit on the temptress. Instead of standing here, let's say, Pat. Andrej Bozič, a famous Slovenian exorcist who could already see in this last name that "nomen omen" is said to be "damien", meaning. And because my task is, among other things, our task is to drive out evil. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u63	Mr. Gulic, please, no offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u64	These are allegories. And to get very nervous, of course, I just have to keep going. I'm going to read a few things that are ready here. To the question of your relationship with Janez Janša or how young economists you understand the government, Damjan replied: "Good, we are his believers, of course." Slovenia does not see as a large family as a value, but sees it as a company as a "graysleria". "A company that is practically bankrupt, so it's best to take it from abroad." [[Work, 19.10.2005.]] So to whom will we give this Slovenia? What is his attitude toward us? Mr. "J. P. Damien," if you can hear me now, we're not test rabbits! We're people. And all those who voted us aren't test rabbits, they're human. Of course, the state is not a company, the state has those who can't yet, and those who can't anymore, as well as those who may not be able today. And these are not to be killed, to be removed, to be stopped. If this economic logic is so strong and so clear and so clear with Mr Damian, then it should also be self-critical, because it is a cost, it is said, to establish its function and to seize this function, so much the cost and obviously the economic ineligible, to be consistent and to withdraw before we vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Let me just point out that we still extended the debate "ad personam" to "ad rem", otherwise it did not work. And we expanded it with a strategy for the development of Slovenia, which was absolutely necessary. I'm just saying how it was decided. It's mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellows and fellows! I will personally support the candidate for Minister without a license, Dr Jožet P. Damjan, responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. Allow me, however, to try to illustrate his role in the government in an illustration, with the role of responsible control in adapting the house. The fact is, the Slovenian building is solid and has quite a facade. This is also evident by those who come to visit us. Maintenance and reconstruction work must be carried out in this building, of course as planned. This plan must be presented to all residents. It is also necessary to count with contractors the works that will encounter misunderstandings in this building, some will say: "As long as I am, it is so good for me, arrange and adapt when I am gone." Some very interested in reconstruction work will even want to tear down some load wall in the building or even replace the new installation with the installation of another supplier. I propose to Minister Damian that he build a model of the renovated building, from which the works that will be for the benefit of all tenants will be clearly visible. Thus, residents or the home world need to be reasoned that now is the optimal time for adaptation, both in terms of annual time and the price they will pay. I expect that the appointment and establishment of this Ministry will not deprive other ministries of their powers. I want a successful job for the Minister, Dr Damjan, and I am sure that he will comply with the rules on protection at work for both residents and contractors. The investor will, of course, be able to manage the price of adaptation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the floor. Lord My word is yours. Please, if only Mr. Moge can speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u68	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. I'm a pedagogist. I'm going to yell at the rest of them with my voice. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends. At the time of the examination of the bibliography of Dr. Jožet Damian, married to Pavlič, I remained on this level so that, as far as the profession is concerned, I can't tell him anything. But when we discuss his appointment, we need to know not only what he is but what he will do. And I'd like to talk a little bit about these things. I think that this reform is so established, I will start with this first, and looking for a way out, who will lead the reform, I think, is very mildly inconvenient or in my opinion shows that this government, which is now in power for a little more than one year, has no clear goals, visions and everything to take Slovenia on the road as promised to flow between milk and milk. Why respectable colleagues? Look, I've got a Prime Minister up here, and I've got people here who he commands if I use a military term. He commands, believe it or not, the most powerful company of humans. In fact, ministries with authorities, government services and administrative units have together, believe it or not, 34,822 people, the date is 1.5.2005 and has not changed significantly so far. And not only that, ladies and gentlemen, the government's services that go from the vice-president of the government up here are commanded by 1305 people. If someone has such a stock of high-quality personnel and has promised to move this country forward before the elections and elections in this National Assembly, when we appointed ministers, because we have left the country in an extremely good condition, which is also indicated by statistics that have been made abroad, then it points to something. By the way, what does that indicate? It appears that government policy is not being implemented as it should be. Why not? Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have invested thousands of hours in adopting national programmes in the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. At this meeting, we adopted a national research programme, a national higher education programme, a national road construction programme, a national cultural programme, etc. But not only have we adopted national programmes, we have also adopted a set of laws on basic development programmes in the field of health, higher education, infrastructure and defence, if you will. And now that we have all these strategic documents in which we have said that milk and honey will be drained, and when the government has to get this into motion with these strategic documents, it is clear that everything has stopped and the inability to do so is disguised by the creation of a new ministry, some group of people with a crowd of 34,800 additional people who will now, as some guardian angel, bring us safely through all the traps of globalisation. I mean, respected colleagues and colleagues, this is a completely wrong way to go. Why? So far, the government has been run by Prime Ministers with academic titles from the economy, and I think the Prime Minister should be skilled at this, but if it isn't, then there's a bunch of people in this big army who help him and can make his own decisions. And now the very path to these reforms, ladies and gentlemen, does not seem good to me. This reform leads to the purest market capitalism of the strongest form, leaving it on the people's side, leaving it on the social side. What does it matter to anyone who, if a few thousand people come to demonstrate, is left behind not only the social side, but I could also say that countries as well, the country's attributes as such, its culture and everything else. That's why I think it's on my nose to take some new path from this path that we've made here in the National Assembly, risky. At risk because of this, ladies and gentlemen, because I am already very old and because I have witnessed such reforms already, one has introduced socialist self-government with Comrade Kardel, we know how it ended and why it was because they did not see solutions given. The second, if you want, was a targeted education - we know how we ended up. And given the way in which you have embarked on new reforms in the coalition, that people are of no importance to you, their opinion that you stand up to them, and that you have the opposition just so that from left and right you slap it here in the National Assembly, when they want to recall anything, it seems to me that this is an extremely harmful way for the Republic of Slovenia. And what I've said now about Cardel in this act, which I am now attending, I can only say, "The Kardel is dead. Long live Kardelj!" It reminds me a lot of old times. But the Prime Minister, I must say, was very clever. What's going to happen now, this super minister, if I say so to him, who's going to coordinate - 16 ministries here already. We're about to get another new ministry. What is this minister going to do? The distribution and importance of ministries should only be explained to you, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Defence has 1,176 employees and is taking us to development. However, the Ministry without a licence for local self-government and regional policy has one person employed according to this data. Yeah, where's our good and healthy mind? And now, like this minister, when there is a puppet here in the National Assembly, there is nothing he can do, and we will give another minister another minister to lead the development, while at the same time we will have a Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. And it seems to me that if I repeat what I have already said more than once, it is an unprecedented farce. And this new minister will be at the same time, if I understand correctly, - the "consiliaries" say to the Italian or counsellor to the minister, which, with regard to the academic title and the degree he studied, is fine, it is said, will also be to the Prime Minister at the same time. Because now there is no informal group, but he will be a minister, he will also be a sinful goat for all the things that will be broken in the reform. And for the mercy of Mr Jožet Pavlič Damjan, I will not vote for him because he is going to a doomed project.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Thank you also to Vice-President Pavlich for his leadership so far. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Rugle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Slovenia has been a test rabbit in the past, we know what kind of governments, and the results can be felt today. Today is the day when we decide, in my opinion, on the most important event since Slovenia's independence and accession to the EU and NATO. These were in some way political reforms, now that Prime Minister Janez Janša has decided to take Slovenia into the necessary economic and social reforms. It's a long-term process, but one has to start. To date, no one has been able to cope with such a great challenge, but many have come to the point of dedicating themselves and devoting themselves to just one goal in order to keep everything the way it is. For the first time in my life, I saw Mr Damian and heard the last presentation on the Committee on the Economy. Someone can tell me, don't praise the day before night, but I can certainly say that the first clearly and loudly presented a strategy that can take us out of the economic backlog and debts that we have accumulated under the rule of the LDS and the United List. The only industry that these have developed in the past to the clouds is the public sector whose consumption has stifled our economy. Somebody show me a worker who lost his job in the public sector. On the contrary. You've hired thousands of them, and now they're dealing with themselves. Let me stress that we have 153 000 employees in the public sector and that everyone costs our economy 5 million SIT per year. And one wonders how much productivity is in our public sector. Just one example of many, do you know that one seam in Fox, or Mercator trade, does not deserve enough to have a child in kindergarten if you have to pay the economic price yourself. I don't know how she lives alone. It's a shame. So unfair is the situation of the economy, as well as of agriculture, and of the workers there, compared with the lack of economy, unique in Europe. Dearly beloved, this way we have produced almost a billion dollars of external trade deficits and so much new debt each year. If we continue to do so, we will make our children slaves who will bear the burden of our recklessness and wastefulness. For a short period of time, it does not drink water, even though we drink it from imports and we gladly borrow money for it. I hope that tells you all that. Our economy is overloaded with non-economy and therefore uncompetitive, and we need to change that. I am confident that the candidate for Minister Joža Pavlič Damjan, with the support of our government and this Parliament and all of us citizens, will be able to do what we can only do together. These are economic and social reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you, Comrade Rugelj. I give my word to Ambassador Ljubo Germich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. So, given the involvement of Mr. candidate for Minister without a ticket, Mr. P. Damjan in the last year in public life, this proposal, which is before us today, is logical on the one hand. Of course, on the other hand, it is not logical in terms of the fact that it raises questions about the functioning of all the ministries and governments in general, because the question of the role of this ministry is being raised, i.e. this government service, which is supposed to monitor the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, because in my opinion this is a priority in fact for each of the ministries in question. When we talk about the candidate, we can somehow assess his work so far as a theoretical economist who comes in contact with reality only through publications that he publishes, and through discussions with other theoretical economists, and who, individually and as an intellectual mass and authority in a particular area, of course, always realize that what they theoretically reveal must be practical solutions that must always be kept in mind that these solutions mean certain effects on people. Of course, that is why it is also very important when we talk about the achievement of the basic objective, this is a blessing for all of us, how we can see the functioning of this government service and the role of this ministry, because when it says there is a existence, that is, that there is cohesion - this chemistry among the co-workers. Of course, we want to talk about this cohesion, this chemistry, and given that I get to know chemistry a little bit, of course it can be a attraction, but it can also be a reflection. There is little experience in this government or in the content associated with both the Reform Committee and the individual preparers of these reforms, as well as with the people at individual ministries. Given that Mr Jožet P. Damian is not going to challenge this theoretical knowledge that can be followed through bibliography, I am asking whether this theoretical knowledge will be able to introduce into the concept of the work of this government. For how else can it be understood that when we speak of prosperity for all, health care is intended for a very narrow space. At the same time, I would like to quote the candidate's statement at his presentation that he is qualified as a macro-economist. When you're educated at this stage, you can go to any area because you have analytical instruments. I can go to health care and believe that within six months I can study the health system so that I can propose a good system." According to my understanding, he's on one side of the statement that shows his youthful drive. In doing so, he would quote our distinguished poet, who says that in knowledge politics we need a heart that then has a common denominator in wisdom. Can such a statement be viewed as wisdom? Can all the social reform interventions in the field of health, which also has a common denominator in the introduction of a single tax rate, i.e. by changing the tax system, be it possible to talk about wisdom in this regard, or can we say that all these theoretical studies will have practical applications for a positive life for all of us, that is to say, for the benefit of each of us? Of course, here I assess, at least in the field of health, we see that on the one hand we have reformers for this area, Mr Mrkaić, who, on the other hand, demands the resignation of Minister Bručan, who is implementing an unconstant policy in the field of health, which in fact brings uncertainty, uncertainty in the health care of every Slovenian and every Slovenian. And we also wonder what security will be like and what will be the certainty of achieving prosperity for all. This can also be linked to the concrete figures we have taken through the 2006 and 2007 national budget, when we are one of the fundamental and very effective measures for the flexibility of the labour market and for active employment policy measures, after Damian, which will allow for the re-employment of all those who lose their jobs in the future. Does not the reduction of funds on these items go in the opposite direction? Here I also question all measures relating to the introduction of a single tax rate on the impact of health care. How can we say that this will still be an accessible public good for all, but when we talk about the consequences of billions of dollars when we talk about the fact that these resources will not be available and we can assess that the overall level of health care in Slovenia will be reduced as well? That is why I would like, given that I have somehow estimated that the candidate for a minister without a ticket has a lot of theoretical knowledge, I would like this theoretical knowledge to substantiate it with a heart of common wisdom. And when he convinces me of this in his further work, I will also be able to believe what his task will be and to implement these reforms that are proposed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you, Comrade Germich. I give my word to a colleague of mine, Frank Kangler, who isn't. That is why Member Happy Hvauc will speak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that my colleague mentioned earlier that I belong to a group of well-educated Members, I hope that, with my discussion of this esteemed opinion, I will not spoil it. I would agree that there can be a lot better in Slovenia, but it is also true that the situation is not so bad. If we look at the gross domestic product, we are already more than 75% of the European Union average that inflation was in April of last year, which is exactly one month before the entry into the European Union, 4.8%, converted to a one-year period, and that last month this inflation has fallen to 2.5%, which means that we have met the last convergence criterion and that a new financial perspective is closed, which means that Slovenia has a known framework for the next period. Of course, this must not put us to sleep. That doesn't mean we can stand. The one standing today is essentially going backwards, which means that the speed of our development is measured in comparison with our environment. Of course, it is clear that reforms are needed for this reason, and it is also clear that some oppose these changes because any change brings some kind of effort, some uncertainty, some risk. With regard to the candidate for a minister without a licence, I believe that his decision to take a candidacy is a bold decision. This assumes great responsibility, in fact from words to actions, from an abstract to a specific one, from the preparation of the programme to the implementation. I know a lot of times when a lot of people couldn't be brave enough to make that decision. For example, in Maribor in particular, we had a bunch of developmental or reform programmes or any kind of programs from Maribor tomorrow, Maribor 2000, the problem of solving the Maribor economy and all those programs that were being prepared in some academic spheres, even for big money, then they practically stayed somewhere in drawers. There were no ones who would hope to take things into their own hands and to bring them to some effect. And from this point of view - once again - I think that this decision was in place. The candidate himself also risks temporarily or permanently withdrawing from the academic sphere or abandoning his academic career, as some say, and I think that this may in fact be an advantage rather than a weakness. He's an expert, checked in professional circles, not only at home, but also abroad. In fact, it can prove itself by its works, and it would be difficult for him to find faults in this area. This is that without experience, in the previous government we had ministers who had virtually no work experience, young and resourceful economists, and then no one, at least I don't remember anyone putting it out loud. Even if we look within the National Assembly, we would certainly find some Member who has very little or no work experience, perhaps more political, yet he is doing his job and I have never heard any indication that this is, I don't know, such a terrible big flaw. That is why I see the candidacy only as one concrete action, which is a further step in the implementation of these reforms, which is why I also support this candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you for your thought. I give my word to Master Borut Sajovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, "Not by word, but by action you will recognize them" - and I would also like to refer this thought to the distinguished Mr Damian. I can't say much about him as a human because I just don't know him and, of course, I wish him a happy way in this difficult trial as one of the most important ministers. It is not the task of the opposition to support the government minister, that others will no doubt do this today, but I would like to remind him for the good of the Slovenian countryside and for the sake of Slovenian agriculture of a few minor matters, because in these reforms and in these actions the countryside will be very badly and cruelly touched. This is a so-called single tax rate, and in the area of agriculture, rural areas and in particular in the field of the food processing industry can also be a funeral. If a few centuries ago, due to the tithes collected by the feudalist or the townsfolk in the puddles, the heads of peasants would fall, then 20% of the uniform tax rate would shut down Slovenian farms, empty rural areas and lose jobs in the food processing industry. About 70,000 agricultural holdings live in the Slovenian countryside today, and 22,000 jobs depend on this in the agricultural processing industry and the food industry. I believe that the view in the white shirt and the tie from Ljubljana is slightly different than the view of our Slovenian farmers, or if you want to say mountain farmers who for a price of 400 tolars, as much as it costs in a normal inn in Ljubljana, some ordinary beer that can offer 10 eggs for this money in Gorenjska, 2 kilograms of potatoes and 1 liter of milk for us in Gorenjska. If we compare these things and if we add another 20% of the single tax rate to this basic article, which means food and survival to many groups of people, then something is seriously wrong in this system. Not only will we inspire the worker, the farmer and the child with milk, bread and basic food items, but this series and this spiral, which will follow after the calculation of agricultural economists, will also be 1.5 to 2% of the inflation spiral, then we will hit the last one in this chain, that's the manufacturer. And to Minister Damian, I wish happiness on this path and, of course, to this one, for him, perhaps a marginal problem, he gives great concern and attention, because, as they say, the devil is always in those details. And I want to be in this detail, even though I will not support him as a Member, to be successful and correct, this will not be last but good for all Slovenians and Slovenians. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Milenk Ziherl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. I would start with this data myself, namely that the average wage in Slovenia is €701 and the average pension is €464. I would like to point out that, back in 1990, we were aligned according to this data with our immediate neighbours, namely Austria, and today we are lagging behind more than three times. And all the data tells us that reforms are absolutely necessary. I would also mention the former Prime Minister, who, at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union in December 2003, said that we would soon be among the five or six most developed European countries. In 15 years, they are even supposed to be the first in the European Union. So, also, this information, if we really want to achieve this or something like that, tells us that there are a lot of things that need to be changed, so we need to go into reform. I would also point out that wage growth is no longer effective, resulting in a decrease of 26 billion annually. Reforms are opposed by those who should essentially negotiate about them, perhaps to propose something, but not immediately before the content is even known, to launch or motivate people for demonstrations. They're unions. Reforms may also force trade unions to reorganise, because long ago their way of action - motivation has long grown and no longer follow the status of a partner as developed Western societies do. There are certainly too many union officials for so much work done. Therefore, during these protests we also heard various demagog messages, as if there would be a reduction in the hospital, the abolition of collective agreements, the abolition of student work, the abolition of the allowance at work. There will indeed be changes in these areas, but certainly not changes as they have been shown. I would also like to point out that the sentence, as ordered for the removal of capital, is because potential foreign investors are all these things, in particular the content for which they fought, which is quite outdated, anachronistic, will deter foreign investors and send them among our worst competitors, that is, to the area of India and China. In addition, in the implementation of our colleagues in Social Democracy, I saw a gap, one thought of the president, the other thought of membership. And it came to mind the book of Peter’s principle, where the main thought of the book is to make progress for as long as you do not reach the point of incompetence. We certainly cannot say that the President is incompetent, but they have put him in such a position. Because it is this book that says that when you reach this level, an internal conversion occurs or a freely floating peak. And the free floating peak, I think it's a description of this condition. So, the difference between the President's ideas and his narrow base, which should not be taken into account by his expertly based facts. The biggest stumbling block, the biggest source of revolt is certainly a uniform tax rate. I would point out that in the past we have followed the Scandinavian model and we have had a full mouth of Scandinavians, Danes, Swedes, Finns, but with our Balkan performance, often with Balkan thinking, of course, there are only ideas left or it was difficult this social model, this social arrangement was difficult to revive. Well, let me take a look at the uniform tax rates around the world. Sweden already has a 25% tax rate, with some benefits, namely 6% personal transport, books, printing, cinema, theatre. 12% tax rate for non-alcoholic drinks, hotel services, fast food you take with you, right there on the spot, I mean, it doesn't even matter that much. I might also look at Germany's 29% preparation. [[?]] The tax rate, in 2007, and their media are already counting down as - in fact, I have only seen 407 days before the impact, and a meteor has been painted that will strike and thoroughly mix events in the German society. Well, on the other hand, analysts say that for Germany these reforms are already too late - which is true for them, probably for us - that they will have to be more thorough. These include increasing the working age to 69 years in Finland to 68 years. Then, because of the flexibility of the workforce in Germany, they have the first two years of employment, even when you are changing, say, already a skilled worker when changing jobs has the first two years of trainee status. That is, if it does not comply, if it does not meet the conditions of the invitation to tender, the conditions of work may be waived without any major consequences. Therefore, the first two years are likely to be the best for each of us to succeed. Perhaps a wealthy society, a wealthier society, is a society that is progressing, but certainly would not have the need to engage in trade unions with the content that it is now. So the unions will have to look for some new motives, some new content, and above all be a negotiating partner, who will direct the employees to get more on their feet, to be willing to switch jobs, to retrain, to educate, and especially to invest in their businesses, once the standard has grown so much that they have leftovers or forms of savings for old age and so on. So, reform takes a whole bunch of steps, it's not quite set yet, it's likely to take a few more details in the coming months. I certainly support them 100%, and I also support Mr Damjan as a supporter of these reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you, Comrade Ziherl. I give my word to Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič. He's not here. The word is Dr. Gaber. He's not here. I give my word to Ambassador Rudi Versnik. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In our young and small Slovenia we have so far had two All-Slovenian projects. The first was the decision for Slovenia and the second to join the European Union and NATO. We have a time for a third, this is a project of economic and social reforms. We are also preparing for this project today, when we consider the candidate for a minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. In any event, the new government reform service, when coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and economic social reforms, should also provide professional assistance to ministries in the preparation of laws and regulations accompanying the reform. Dr Jožet P. Damjan's nomination today is based on expertise, extensive experience in research projects, and an active role so far in the management of the reform committee and in the preparation of a proposal for measures to monitor the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy. In 2004, the candidate, a 38-year-old doctor of economic sciences, was appointed president of the Strategic Council for Economic Development with the Prime Minister. In July this year, he took over the leadership of the government reform committee, which prepared a framework for economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. The social state must enable a person to live a decent life that allows those who are relatively less successful in this process of economic development to have a safe haven and still allow them to have a life worth living or a decent one. The reform proposal allows growth to all, not only to certain privileged layers, as is well spoken on a flat-rate basis, but also to those who are relatively less successful in this process can, on the basis of greater economic growth, also provide greater social security. Slovenia is a stable economic state. Looking at the stability of economic growth, it was the highest among all countries in transition. According to the results of international studies, we have had relatively high growth due to our underdevelopment in the economy. The theory tells us that when you're less developed, you grow faster, but when you get closer to a certain level of development, economic growth starts to decline slowly, and eventually it can become zero or even negative. This is slowly approaching Slovenia over the next 5 to 10 years and conditions need to be set today. How can you avoid that? This is shown by certain countries that have been relatively successful in doing so. These countries today have a relatively good development momentum. Some transition country reforms, as well as some developed countries such as Ireland, the United Kingdom, the Scandinavian countries, have a labour market that allows for greater flexibility in employment and forgiveness. This enables those who have lost their jobs to gain employment quickly. The unemployment rate in these countries is relatively low and this is attributed to a lot of flexibility. I myself have accompanied the presentation of Mr Jože P. Damian's distinguished candidate on the Committee on the Economy. I must admit that the answers to the questions raised by colleagues from opposition parties, including his college colleague, were very convincing and thorough. I got the impression that we are all aware of the need for reforms, but we are not prepared to listen to the implementation scenario, let alone to take a closer look at the professional analyses that have already been made and that will be done in the future. All rational thinking is stopped at the proposal of a single tax rate, as if there were no other 69 measures. Once again, our smallness, incarceration in our own kindergartens, unwillingness for new challenges, which are the only ones that can bring economic growth, greater employment and thus prosperity to all Slovenes and Slovenes. The reform proposal brings a simpler and more business-friendly country, simplification of the tax system, reduction of tax burden, withdrawal of the country from the economy, effective use of knowledge and a system of incentives for the flow of knowledge between the economy and universities, and a set of large national projects supported by funds from the European Union. A transparent system of social transfers is also established, which motivates individuals to act, a more rational health system and more sustainable, and activities promoting the pension system. I am convinced that for such a big and important project ahead of us, we need a ministry without a charter to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. The candidate proposed by the Prime Minister for this city, however, convinced me that he was capable and fit to run such a demanding project. Dear Mr. Candidate! You have my vote and all the support in your further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you for your discussion. I call to the word of Ambassador Gezo Juban. He's not here. I give my word to Ambassador Rudolph Petan. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So let me start by saying that I'm going to support Dr. Jožet P. Damian for a new job he's committed to doing. Let me say that a few days ago, at the time of the budget debate, we were able to hear from our political opponents that, in addition to the tax on paid salaries, which is the only positive contribution to the competitiveness of the economy and tax competitiveness, in all other areas and all other taxes, we are witnessing an increase in the public financial burden of the economy, etc. So this tax on paid wages was abolished by this government, and we voted in this Parliament a good month ago, and all other burdens on the economy are still inherited. And if that is the case, then it is certainly the last time - and probably the opposition will also confirm, because the words I quoted earlier are theirs, that it is time - to make changes, and that we also have a resource that will take care of this area and coordinate development projects if, of course, it is also inter-sectoral, and that now is the time for Slovenia to become more competitive, because that is the only way to preserve the work and thus generate new jobs. There's no other way. Amendments are necessary because nothing can last forever, even if some measures were ideal at first, wonderful if they produced excellent results if they do not follow the market situation if they are not followed. The fact is, development is going its way, and it's getting faster. What it sometimes took 100 years for us to go through a development path was, of course, only half that time later, today perhaps just 10 more years. However, the years that are coming allow in one year what has sometimes been fixed in 100 years, so it is necessary to stay awake. The difference is whether in individual countries, in particular in our country, we are monitoring this, that we are ready for new challenges, that we are ready for new developments, or that we are putting our heads in the sand, as if nothing is happening, as if it were none of our business, and if we want to or not, we are sleeping on laurels, which is what is going to happen. It is important to emphasise and these are the facts that our competition in Asia goes on without resting. Jobs from the European Union are moving to Asia from Asia and cheap products are coming, as labour is also cheaper there. That is to say, we must be prepared for these challenges, we must compete where we can. We cannot compete with them in finishing business because they do it much cheaper and much simpler, much cheaper. Slovenia now has the ideal situation to take advantage of the opportunity within the European Union's large market. We know that there is nothing free in the European Union, nothing comes from itself, but it is true that it is a huge opportunity and Slovenia must take advantage of these conditions. It is also true that Slovenia is at a very high level of development at the moment, of course, countries where there are two more, three times higher levels of development and also higher national income per capita have, but the fact that we Slovenians are able to do more so that we can do more so that we have a workforce that can do much more. This needs to be exploited and competed here with an Asian labour force that doesn't yet know much, we just can't sleep on laurels and just talk, because they're even worse than us. That's not gonna work. A good example or a good opportunity for Slovenia is a new financial perspective or a new budget project for the European Union, which is extremely favourable for Slovenia. Slovenia is the only country that has retained the same resources as envisaged under the Luxembourg proposal, which was relatively very good for all the new members of the European Union. This is certainly the success of this government in the negotiations. To some extent, it is also a remedy to the detriment of previous negotiations with the European Union. However, it is necessary to properly organise ourselves, it is necessary to properly organise a service that will also be able to obtain these funds for Slovenia, not automatically coming, but to be organised, to have good projects. The fact is, we've heard a lot about cruel facts today, about the cruel moves of this government. While I am interested in what this would be so cruel; whether it is possible that this government has set up a new system for the formation of oil derivatives prices that are significantly more friendly to citizens, it is also likely that it has not been on its own and only because of the situation in the world's markets - even today has been the appreciation of oil derivatives. This is probably not the most cruel measure if the government has taken that prices can be designed differently and more user-friendly. Probably not cruel about notary services, that these services have been valued, I will no longer talk about stickers, which I hope we have already forgotten. Nor is it likely the harsh opinion of the Chamber of Commerce that this government did in fact a great deal of work that had not been done in the past decade. Such a project, so that Slovenia will be more competitive that it can develop even more quickly, requires appropriate organisation. Without proper organisation, this will be difficult to achieve, and of course also with the appropriate staffing structure. Someone said today that they don't brag about the day before dinner. I would have set this up differently; don't build a day before the evening, and we don't have to build a new minister now, and we're condemning him, we're putting fire and sulphur on him, even before we even gave him a chance to go to work, it's that our country remodels and prepares to be able to follow the economic situation in the world, so that we can also somehow meet the challenges when some of our companies are also determined to move production, especially labour intensively to places where labour is cheaper, to Bosnia and Asia. Because, somehow, we will have to organise such jobs where we can compete, where more knowledge is needed, because our workers have more knowledge than just work. Therefore, it is necessary to be prepared for such challenges and, of course, I will support this proposal to appoint Mr Damjan as Minister without a charter to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. For only here is our way, our perspective that we can remain competitive also within the European Union, in the context of the new situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you, Comrade Petan. I give my word to Ambassador Davorin Terchoon. He's not here. Member Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Of course, I will support Dr Damjan - not because of his scientific achievements in which I have not deepened, not because of the work experience in the economy that he himself said he does not have; I will support him on the basis of what he said should be done in our country if we want to move forward or if we want faster economic development and prosperity for all citizens. I have carefully examined all these elements of the envisaged reforms that are ahead of us on the table that we have faced. Many felt these suggestions of a negative response and protests. I don't think those who did this are aware of what these changes would bring. I've worked alone for 30 years and more in the economy, and I've always wanted one of the politicians to understand whatever the economy wants. We don't want help, I said, we don't want anything, we just want to be able to manage the same conditions as our partners, which we have to sell the goods we have to compete with on this market. Nothing else. And we didn't see that coming. We have seen the incredible burden of work, where no country in the world has such a burden of work. 50% to 60% of all public revenue, not just the budget, comes from work. This makes it impossible to expect our economy to be competitive. It is impossible to expect foreign investment or domestic investment. It is impossible to expect new jobs until this problem is resolved. On the other hand, we used to have a lot to discuss and conclude over the entire period, a variety of things that increase public consumption. Our consumption has soared that it exceeds all limits, and I think we're swallowing our own substance. Therefore, the urgency of these reforms is so great and it would be right for everyone to be aware of this and to support these things in some way. They tried to focus on how things could be facilitated or rejected, but they did not focus on what might be negative. Of course, there are possible derogations in each system. And I think that what we have before us is a sure proposal that will give us every citizen. Of course, we must first achieve that we will make the conditions for our production to rise, our economic growth to increase our national income. Of course, then it will not be difficult to divide this matter more or less fairly. But there's something, we know she hasn't eaten without work. There is a need to provide jobs and we will have to work hard. We're gonna have to cut public spending. We know we're the least productive here, we're not reaching our targets. How can we calculate the productivity of our officials in specific areas? So that I won't be too long, I think we need to support this idea. We've been waiting for her for a long time, and it's high time for these reforms to begin. Let us concentrate on how to complement them, how to eliminate these things that we see, and how to ensure that our country follows the path of faster economic development, the activation of knowledge. We are the last of innovations to be almost scientific or economic spheres, to step on the ground, we are overtaken by countries that were far below us years ago. I'd like to see you make up your mind. I'll support the newly appointed minister. I wish him to have the strength and support of all in implementing these reforms, because that is the only way I will be satisfied and will do something for my apprentices and enable them to live a better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you. I give the floor to Darja Lovtišar Bebler. [[She's not here.]] I give my word to Dr. Lakhovnik. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Anton Rop. [[He's not here.]] I give the word "magic." Milan M. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, especially viewers and viewers. After one year and 17 days this morning, we finally heard the Prime Minister talking about some strategic issues in this National Assembly, about the strategy for the development of Slovenia, about the Lisbon strategy. Let me remind you, on 3 October and 3 December last year, the Prime Minister did not talk about reforms, he was only talking about his own coalition agreement. This coalition contract meant a major division: taking to those who have little and giving to those who have more. This has already been proven. As opposed to the Marmor tax reform, Janša's tax laws have taxed those who have the least, and all others, especially the narrowest group of the richest, have burdened them. But that's not all! After Mr Janša proposed a poor budget rebalancing for 2005 and a poor budget proposal for 2006 and 2007, he found that he had spent as many as three years of his government's mandate, found that he had drawn up a developmental poor budget that really had no link to the Lisbon strategy and did not support competitiveness and therefore began to think about strategies. A strategy for the development of Slovenia was drawn up in 2003-2004, which was prepared as a basis for the economic policies needed to take over the euro and to prepare budgets to ensure a more competitive economy, to relieve the tax burden and to ensure an effective flow of knowledge and to strengthen knowledge as the main tool for all of us in the global conflict on the global market. However, since Mr Janša, by means of specific tax laws, did not reduce the tax burden, but mainly increased the taxation of all because he did not provide a cheaper country in the budgets, since we achieved the historical highest share of public consumption in the domestic product in 2005, he had to find some form of savings. Coalition partners didn't let him do that. Let us just remember how Mr Janša had to order the Minister of Finance to sell more shares in Slovenian companies due to the change that had not been made in social transfers, and the health treasury was ordered a few weeks ago to reduce investments. Since Mr Janša has allocated more than 26 billion in 2006 and 2007 budgets to the work of the repressive authorities than in 2005 and 36 billion more in 2007 than in 2007, he has found it necessary to save. He therefore proposed to his own government the appointment of a reform committee with Mr Damjan at the head. In less than two months, this committee has drawn up 68 proposals for measures over the holidays, which undermine the fundamental logic of the development strategy. This is based on fostering the competitiveness of Slovenia through the development restructuring of public finances, a rather complex formulation, which simply means that more should be spent in budgets to strengthen knowledge, to educate children, to improve primary, secondary and higher education, for a better university, in order for everyone, regardless of social status, to have the opportunity to obtain the highest possible education. That's what society's been like so far. Everyone should have, regardless of social access, access to health, everyone should have the opportunity to get the most effective treatments, everyone should have a quiet age. However, these proposals from the development strategy are not confirmed in the reform committee's actions. These proposals are now replaced by proposals for conservative fiscal policies with economic policy and proposals for a uniform tax rate. [[...]] Is that really something I should support today? I can't support it on my own. I believe that many of us here would not have been if we had not been educated through the solidarity system in the past, which has placed us in the layer in which we are today. The new philosophy of Mr Janša and Mr Damjan, because it is necessary to privatise everything, health care, higher education, to introduce tuition, is something we cannot support. This is not the philosophy of the development strategy, this is the philosophy of Janša's framework of economic reforms, which will ensure the well-being of only some in Slovenia. In this regard, the key faith of Mr Janša and Mr Damjan is in the introduction of a single tax rate. This simply means unloading the richest, for more than half will reduce their taxation and, therefore, in one form, in the form of profits or otherwise, their remuneration will increase. At the same time, for those with the lowest income, today’s tax burden will increase from 16, 17, 20%, or a quarter. Since it will be necessary to increase the taxation of goods used by most Slovenes, food, housing, services at the same time, it will mean that inflation will be under pressure. Like Director Spara said, it's a lie to say the food won't irritable. Therefore, I think it is against the idea of building a company in Slovenia where everyone and everyone will contribute to the financing of the country according to economic power. Mr Damjan, as a believer of Mr Janša and Mr Janš, who has chosen him as an operational professor as their operational minister, will, in particular, break down Slovenian society and build a society of prosperity for some. And what are we doing today? The ruling coalition will today choose a reformer who, together with Mr Janša, will mainly take and create very little. I will give him a hundred days of ministerial peace, and then I expect results and not just the fine words and threats we have heard so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you. I would like to invite Member Mirani to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I wish Mr Jožet P. Damjan a great deal of success in a difficult and responsible task. I sincerely want Slovenia to achieve the goal set out in the programmes, that is, prosperity for all. I would like Mr Damjan, as well as the coalition, to believe that we are willing to participate constructively in the Social Democrats. But you will be surprised, and for us there are questions, especially not reform, but what and how. And with regard to any reforms, we must honestly say that we do not believe all the flowers planted on the basis of the envisaged programmes of action, that we do not agree that measures would mean a change in the value system in our country, that we do not agree that measures would mean the exclusion of an important circle of people and that they would mean less social security and solidarity. This does not mean that we are not for a more successful economy, but that does not mean that we are not for the greater responsibility of all individuals for their development, for better work and the like. And when it comes to how, we do not believe that reforms can be successful if they work on behalf of people, but not with people. If they do not act in such a way as to involve the social partners, to include important stakeholders, employees, students, pensioners, farmers and others, and to try to make every effort to ensure that reforms are justified as much as possible, rather than anyone with any question or thought, to do so for the enemy. Therefore, I would advise Mr Damian, on his behalf, in part also on behalf of colleagues and colleagues, to seek out allies for reform, not to reform the work of opponents. And the search for allies also means a critical attitude towards the public and the public. It's very easy to round up, but we don't believe some polls. It can, but it would be much better to say, the warnings are serious, although it is not accurate that this moment of reform is not largely accepted and we must work to ensure that as much as possible people really accept them. And at the end, when it is so good for anyone to quote my president and myself, to quote him this time: "In relation to the reforms, the opposition is certainly not harmless, but for the public to now have such a reserved attitude towards reforms and the government has so little support for them, however, the government is responsible because it has mistreated them. So I advise the government only three things, patience, patience and patience once more." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you. On the list of applicants, we have only a government representative to respond to the dilemmas and debates raised. Comrade Šteba, I apologize, but I don't have you on the list, so you can apply for extra time later. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u90	We've informed you in time, but I don't know if your predecessor and I have changed the order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u91	Comrade Staba, of course I'll give you my word. You also need to understand us, presidents, because everyone brings their own script and, of course, there can be such mistakes. You have the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, a respected candidate who is probably listening somewhere, a colleague and a colleague. The candidate for Minister Jože Pavlič Damjan will be an important government coordinator, co-ordinator, guardian and supervisor and partner among stakeholders. Mr Damjan will be the main focal point and I am sure that the summit of a broad democratic mechanism will be to seek the best solutions and corrections during the preparation and implementation of changes to the system and its operators in support of growth and employment. So far, scientific, professional work, knowledge of global and European conditions and trends, participation in expert groups, work in environments such as Germany and Belgium, and work to prepare and coordinate the development of a framework for economic and social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, determination and professional efficiency and accuracy ensure the adequacy of the candidate for minister. After successful independence and less successful and fair privatisation, after successful entry into the European Union and then before the third decisive project, whose important part will be the candidate for minister. Both major changes were attacked and filled with doubts. Interestingly, these were usually ruling political groups. The current urgent systemic changes are similar. Active doubters are always one and the same, and those who had the first chance to stop and really carry out these big, undoubtedly urgent projects. They had 12 years on a good 40-year base. They did not take advantage of the opportunities because they probably thought of their narrow interests in the first place. They viewed the change as an intervention in their acquired rights or privileges. It's similar now. And again, they're the ones who want to keep the old state. At the same time, everyone acknowledges that change is necessary, but not about their rights and privileges. Former socialist reforms have always been noisy and frightening. Their aim was to have a public impact on the basic objective of maintaining the existing situation. Despite the relative youth, the candidate for minister is certainly aware of all these circumstances. Just maintaining the current situation would require thorough reforms, not just because of global change and global competition. This must also be done by Europe, including its most developed part, behind which the structural, technological economy of Slovenia is significantly lagging behind. This government and the new ministerial candidate are facing a 50-year setback, which is reflected in poor, underdeveloped infrastructure and public systems and in lost values. There are still many possible improvements in the economy and public administration, as shown by the lack of productivity. I hope he's aware of this, not just the candidate, but all of us. Weaknesses from the past must be addressed as soon as possible and with changes to reach the most developed in terms of competitiveness and quality, sustainability of jobs and productivity. Europe and Slovenia must play a decisive, global role in the establishment and implementation of sustainable, balanced and human policies in human relations in society, in relation to the socially disadvantaged, the environment, nature and all living things in the economy as a whole. All of this the candidate is aware of when he mentions the sustainability of economic measures and local self-government and balanced transparency in the social field. Mr Damjan will continue to play his role now in a wider socially sustainable and economically balanced partnership. Its task is to implement the strategy for the development of Slovenia with the Lisbon and Bologna vision and concrete verifiable measures to change to a successful knowledge society, where it will be necessary to balance the prevailing short-term consumption with the aim of setting up long-term investments, strong personal quality and strong social, social, cultural cohesion and quality of life. The condition and heritage, as we say, are not encouraging. Apart from the individuals from the political opposition, thinking in style here, we are for change, but without any changes for me, for us, except for more rights and more benefits in the form of exceptions. It's a known defect, "not in my backyard". The candidate is aware of the importance of other sources, governments and other parts of society for the success of the Slovenian development strategy, for growth and jobs, and consequently for social security and the preservation and enhancement of the standard, which in the global world makes it possible to only compete and successfully market. All of this requires excellence in knowledge and skills, increased investment and greater efficiency. The reopened single tax rate is a measure attributed to candidates and applicants by EDS opponents as being exclusive, which is not the case. The Prime Minister and the candidate have repeatedly asked for better proposals. These are not yet in the context of the whole, although an interesting professional debate is taking place in the media, this is the confrontation of Kordezheva, Krajnčev and the Damjan Group approach. The single tax rate of the Damjan Group and the government, where some parties to the same government ministers express different opinions. This will be an additional problem and a challenge for the candidate for minister, such as for the government and the prime minister. In my view, Mr Damjan sees the EDS as a significant difference in our approach, how we tax and how we allocate taxes for development or public interest, especially for social as well as culture and other purposes, and how much taxes remain for growth and development, especially competitiveness, this is in investment, innovation and infrastructure. Taxes should, in my understanding, have, in addition to developing social ones, a corrective effect in the Robinhudian sense. Take those who have or create more or have happier circumstances and give help to those who really need it. The latter is very important. You can post different tax rates for goods and services, which is lower, and thus allow for lower taxation for these types of costs to all. Or tax goods and services at the same tax rate. In both cases, you need to help the needy with social transfers and subsidies. In the first case, you help some twice, including with lower VAT, but to all, not only necessary and all services that are more or less entitled to the reduced tax. The amount of aid to each individual entity is difficult to establish. In the second case, however, the aid is clear because the aid is paid out of the budget in accordance with the rules and for clear reasons. Differences are also in the simplicity and potential of abuse. But you can easily take all at the same rate and, of course, those who have more, by doing so proportionally at the same rate more. Or you are already acting in an corrective and public interest manner, but depending on the type of service or product, determine different taxes, which is imprudent and with the exception of additional complexities. Often, however, opposition to a single tax rate is also linked to the surviving socialist opinion that greater wealth is obtained unfairly, which is not true in most cases. However, if we come from the importance of doing what is right, the increase in the rate of taxation is inappropriate, if not unfair. The different VAT rates are also not appropriate because, regardless of wealth or social status, they allow for the use or exploitation of lower tax rates, regardless of the quantities purchased or the volume of services. In my opinion, a candidate for a minister has a good quality, which is not typical of some or unfortunately most politicians, that is honesty and directness. This is what the media and some of today's debaters are using to criticise the candidate. The candidate is also not supposed to have enough practical life and political experience. Weakness is even his academic and scientific career and engagement. It is my opinion that its advantage is the balance between youth and experience, the willingness and ability to cooperate and coordinate between policy experts and policy professionals. He may lack the experience of coordinating and even understanding and accepting interesting pressures. Given the candidate's integrity, I think he's trustworthy and trustworthy. In particular, I appreciate the sense of integrity and interdependence of the measures and the ability to maintain and balance coordination with the aim of recognising rights and balanced development. I will support the proposal made by Mr Jožet P. Damjan, Minister without a Charter, responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. I congratulate him on his decision, I wish him a successful job, his heart, his honesty and his perseverance. The latter will be very important, as can be seen from today's debate on his candidacy. Do not take heart the rejection of your appointment, the criticisms of your work, Dr. Damjan, and even the perverse parables that you are the destroyer of the achievements of Reformer Luther or Trubar, so that they do not reach your heart. Once again, I wish you persistently and well, you have my support and my voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you. I invite the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, to answer the questions raised and to make his final point. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that again. Allow me, at the end of this debate, to try to answer some questions or to further explain the dilemmas raised in this debate on my proposal. First of all, about the candidate himself and the obvious that he doesn't have enough experience. There is no school for a minister or a Member in that country, including in some other countries, anyone who has been elected to Parliament for the first time is doing this work. For the first time anyone who comes to the ministerial office faces this challenge. There is no comparable place, so it is to talk about experiences, as far as we agree to it, we have to dock, because the time goes on to call such places people who have never been there is a relative obvious. I would be very happy if, with the same criteria, the candidate would be measured in the past and in the present. I ask what experience the Minister of Economy has had in the previous government, who has also come from a profession to a place that is significantly more operational than a government development service, and this was welcomed at the time as freshness as something that is welcome. In beautiful colors and paintings, this was drawn, but now, when it comes to a person who has significantly more experience, there is also a much more brilliant and internationally recognized academic career, and man has no experience, and this is said by people in the time difference of one year from the same party. But, of course, when it comes to operational work in the government, it is not without all the experience. He's got a project behind him that he successfully carried out. If I hadn't, I probably wouldn't have been proposed for this town. He led the reform committee, which in a relatively short time, and in a record time for the Slovenian situation, he prepared a proposal for a framework for economic and social reforms in a few months. More than 200 experts have been involved in this project, which we can overcome in Slovenia and from government structures outside. It was a happy combination of views from both inside and outside. And this combination has proved to be a success, and I am convinced that, even in his work as Minister, he will be able to attract solutions that are not in the administration, but are within the national framework in the country, and which can contribute greatly to the betterness of the proposed solutions and that we can get to them more quickly. The operationality shown by him in this regard can also be measured peacefully by the operationality of many in Slovenia of highly praised managers, economists. I have no doubts about this. Of course, anyone who comes into a state apparatus, which is large, complicated, which is still operating on the basis of the last decade of updated modified and amended, but in particular increasingly complicated, procedures, it is not possible to get rid of it overnight, takes some time to see how things work to try to simplify them. There are certainly many things going on more slowly when they need to be actually done than you think you are running into the needs of coalition coordination, interdepartmental coordination, parliamentary coordination, debates in the state world, coordination with civil society, coordination within social dialogue in the economic and social world, then it is illusory to expect that solutions can be quick. We are pleased to be able to accept them in some real time, which will allow us to be no longer late than we have been in the past years. However, anyone who comes into this apparatus with the aim of simplifying things to make them more effective is very welcome and I think that Mr Damjan is such. On some specific debates and questions. First of all, I regret that there were relatively few. I would be very happy if, when we discuss the development strategy of Slovenia or the context of economic and social reforms, we knew what it says in these documents. I believe that, to a large extent, the Slovenian public has not yet been able to familiarise themselves with these solutions, except through these discussions, which have not been followed by everyone. Research shows that about 10% of the population knows more or that they think that it is well aware of these proposals by the time we finally accept them, it is absolutely our intention and the actual need is such, this percentage to increase significantly. However, I would certainly expect someone who decides this directly, directly, when we discuss and when you vote on the candidate for minister, for a member of the government, to place himself among those 10% of the Slovenian public, and knows and discusses things that are not there, but are very clearly written and reasoned, or is talking about a discrepancy between the development strategy of Slovenia and the framework of economic and social reforms, although it is clear to everyone who has read both documents that the development strategy is the basis for this framework and that it is a document that is at the operational level when it comes to the framework of economic and social reforms, a document that is at the operational level of developing this strategy. It'd be weird if it was out of line. It is just over your finger to talk about how two opposite documents, which are also not yet aligned with the Lisbon strategy, are more than funny and very uncreditable to discuss in this way. In one of the debates, my name was mentioned 62 times and it was said that it was a proposal for a minister to lead a government development service in Slovenia from a country where prosperity is for everyone to make a country where prosperity is for some only. No, he's not holding on to each other. Firstly, Slovenia is, unfortunately, still not a country in which we would have prosperity for everyone. This is a fact that needs to be truly acknowledged, we do not yet have this situation. All those who have sworn to this booth or this table here and who have taken responsibility for managing the country in various functions, we have sworn to work for prosperity in Slovenia. However, even though we have been sworn to it for a long time, we have not yet reached this situation. And now to say that we already have this situation with these reforms, and we're trying to change it, it's easy to put things on our heads. The truth is the other way around. Unfortunately, Slovenia is not yet a country or a society of prosperity for all, this is quite clear. In these frameworks, which are supposed to be strongly social over the past ten years and which some are now fraught with defending, there has been a very severe social dispersion. During that time, some who were close to the former authorities had been enriched in a few years by a dream, not on the basis of modest wages, not on the basis of the sent ones. The Adriatic ports are full of these people's yachts, Slovenian coasts full of villas and various land and clearing-deposit books full of stock and property. By saying that we have so far had a framework that has prevented social exclusion, which has created social cohesion and which has had human capital at the forefront, is not serious. It is in this system, which has apparently sworn to social dialogue, that we have grown a society of very large social differences over the past ten years. And without making progress very fast, it was solid, but it wasn't very fast. And this solidarity is, of course, measured by an average. In fact, there are too many social differences within this average. If we want to reduce them, and society is developing, that we are all making progress together, then there are certain things that need to be done and not defended at all for the cost of a condition that was certainly not good for everyone. What is at the heart of these reforms, which are proposed and coordinated by the Minister without a charter responsible for development, is some shift that we need in the country at the moment, and this is a shift from excessive labour taxation to a slightly higher burden of wealth and consumption. This is the movement that should be most welcomed by those who are defending the rights arising from work and who would - and this is also happening - have to be opposed by those who have significant non-productive assets, because this will be more at stake in the future. However, it will be necessary to release all those potentials, including the availability of productive capital, investment activities, new programmes, the opening up of new businesses, the provision of new jobs, growth and employment. And these movements are proposed and these measures will have to be coordinated by the Minister proposed. At the expense of the fact that there are no calculations on the effects of certain measures proposed on individual areas are, when it comes to precise calculations, a repetition of what they have told me in the future. The government has adopted a framework for economic and social reforms, as a whole needs to be planned simultaneously. Individual measures, before being proposed in the form of laws in this National Assembly, will be given the tools needed to make a real decision, to make precise calculations, to know what kind of action will bring, to where it will take, and what needs to be done, so that when we expect positive general consequences, on the other hand, we can also mitigate the possible negative consequences of such action. To claim that what is proposed is death for Slovenian culture or to endanger Slovenian national identity is the use of very strong words at a point where there is not much real basis for such a claim. When it comes to the impact of the proposed tax changes on culture, the government has made it very clear that when it comes to the functioning of public cultural institutions, which have a higher number of employees, savings in reducing costs when it comes to wages are far outweighed by incentives on the other hand, brought about by a slight increase in cultural services. All cultural establishments with more employees would save significantly more on salaries than they would lose at other costs. When it comes to any increase in book prices, if the proposed solution is to be implemented, the government said before this framework was adopted that it is willing to neutralize these negative effects with targeted subsidies for the issuance of beauty books, which is what is in Slovenia's fundamental interest. Equally subsidize books sold in 40,000 copies that are completely commercial, and books that are actually beautiful and will never be sold in the same number of copies is using some general criterion for very different cases. Thus, the government has no intention of making culture worse. For the first time, in 2005, the government had significantly increased its funding for culture by means of a rebalancing process. Those who are now running crocodiles of tears over the fate of Slovenian culture have been calmly silent in previous years when the situation has actually deteriorated. Now, when it comes to local self-government, the purpose of certain measures which speak of the need to simplify, is also partly to centralise certain procedures in the use of European funds. The aim of these measures is for the first time to increase efficiency and, secondly, to ensure the transparency or transparency of this system, which, once at these two points, is still a strong limp and a matter for the inherited force system. For the 2005-2007 financial perspective, a more efficient system that will not take responsibility for the entities below will be in place, but will allow those entities to run in real time with their programmes to receive assistance where necessary in the preparation of these programmes, and that these funds will in fact be allocated to those jobs in that country most in need. The system that has now been established is such that those who already have some basis and knowledge and so on can also be significantly more successful in this complicated system, meaning that most of the resources go or that despite the effort still go too far where they are not needed most, but where they are most able to draw them. This is this decentralised system that we inherited that wasn't good. With regard to the fear that a loss of income in the financing of municipalities of between 10 and 20 billion would jeopardize the functioning of local government, it is a technical question of how to replace this loss of the community after we know exactly what the sum is. If we decide to do so, it is very easy to balance this with increasing the proportion of municipalities on income or with some other instrument and simply to say that when such a measure is proposed, we are poor in local self-government. Especially is it wrong to read the present government, which is the first in years to improve the financial position of the municipalities. Previously, the congregations were simply lashing out with new obligations and the funds were falling or remained at the same level. They were also evident in the debate that this new government service would cost a great deal. I think that one fellow Member has previously found that the entire budget of this service over the next budget period is only half of the costs of one referendum and that the funds you have redeployed with the amendment for the operation of this service have actually been redeployed from other items. The government has found internal reserves for these funds. The budget has not increased for this. There are 15 jobs in the systemisation proposed. People will be redeployed mainly from other government services or ministries, it is said, it is not a new cost and new employment, it is a horizontal reorganisation, which is not ultimately expressed in substantial additional costs. It may also be possible to reject such allegations by comparison, let's calculate how much Slovenian taxpayers' government service for European affairs has cost in recent years. In fact, there could also be some unjustified costs, various flights to exotic destinations, but if we draw a line under these costs and see what the net effect was, then we see that the establishment of such a service has paid off and that without the government's service for European affairs, which has coordinated negotiations and the approximation of Slovenia of the EU, this process would not have been so successful or would have failed at all. And in the case of costs, on the other hand, it is also necessary to have effects if we are to have an objective judgment. One of the Members, who, while critical of my proposal, said that there was no point in pushing someone into heaven if he disagreed. I must say, I agree with that finding. It is always possible to adopt and enforce, when it comes to more fundamental changes, only those measures that are not only possible by the majority of votes adopted in Parliament, but only those that run into at least a significant amount of public support, if not before, after the effects start to manifest, because otherwise only by law, with some administrative will of some serious changes cannot be easily introduced. Nor does this government intend to enforce solutions that the Slovenian public would not support to a large extent, or at least to a large extent. It is always possible to weigh here what is, however, in spite of possible current dislikability, must be done. Finally, if you make a referendum on whether taxes are abolished, you will certainly get a positive result in terms of the answer that everyone is for this. This is a very clear question of how you ask the question. If tax policy in the country were strictly tied to the majority will, then this Parliament would not be, because no one would have to finance it. Certain things just need to be weighed. And even when it comes to manipulation, which is always one way or another in politics, it is necessary to have some measure. In the coming weeks and months, there will be a debate on similar content, but in a significantly larger concrete implementation than it was today on this proposal. It will come back to this Parliament on various proposals. In fact, we have months that will be very important; in fact, the whole year 2006 coming will be very decisive for the future of Slovenia. This year, some key decisions will have to be taken to prepare Slovenia for new challenges and cannot be avoided in any way; we can put them to some point and then they will have to be made in significantly less favourable circumstances. The relatively timely preparation for these challenges means that we can make substantial use of them for our common good. And to this end, this reorganisation, which is also part of my proposal today, is, in my view, proposed in real time. Once again, if we are in time, there will be no need to tighten any belts, as we have heard many times in the criticisms of these reforms. Faster progress can be achieved without increasing social disparities through timely reforms and the efficient use of the European funds negotiated last week. On the contrary, our goal is to reduce them to a reasonable degree while increasing common prosperity. Of course, as we can understand from some of the debates, it is not possible to achieve this only by distributing goods - it is necessary to say goodbye once and for all - but mainly by creating them. To be successful in this, we need to relax all our potentials and create an environment that will encourage and reward those who work harder, and less those who wait for others to work harder for them. This philosophy should be accepted, even though we have heard many complaints today that there is no need for it. Only in a way that better rewards those who work harder can our collective progress in society be significant, faster, only by creating enough wages in Slovenia to become European, so that they will not only be prices or taxes. Only by doing so will we have enough real basis to ensure that pensions as a payment for past work follow the growth of wages and the general raising of standards, and we will only create enough to be solidarity with those who cannot help themselves. This is my proposal today going this way. The government is thus rounding up its organisation so that we will also face the challenges ahead at this level. I think that Mr Damjan, who I am proposing as Minister without a licence, as Head of the Government Development Service, is officially short of the name of this service, so that there will not be so much dilemma regarding shortcuts, the development service, and I think we can use it peacefully. This proposal, which is on the table today, is, in my opinion, a proposal for someone who has proved by what he has published so far, and also by what he has done so far, to see a wider picture, to understand the signs that are on our European and world day and that he is therefore able to coordinate a lot of difficult measures. I am pleased that this knowledge of the need to see what are the things that cannot be avoided and simply prepared for them, and that it is only beneficial that this knowledge penetrates even more widely. Just today I received the calendar of the Slovenian trade union of metal and electro-industry, trade unions have been mentioned many times in today's debate and allow me to quote from this calendar a password that can be a calm password of what we want to do in the future in the area of reforms. This is this calendar for 2006, according to the form and appearance of a real union calendar, good. They chose a phrase for the closing password that says, "We can't steer the wind, but we can adjust the sail." I will be very pleased if this belief, in addition to the metal and electricity trade union of Slovenia, will prevail in this high assembly and on this basis my proposal will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you, Prime Minister Janez Janša. All the debaters who have been reported have been given the floor because the time foreseen for the second point has not yet been spent, I ask if anyone wishes to apply under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. But we've all got 50 minutes at our disposal. Please raise your hand to record those who wish to do so. Ambassadors and Members, I will read the names that I did not release anyone and that there would be unnecessary bad blood: Ambassador of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem, Friday, Cricket, Grill, Veršnik, Ziherl, Kokalj, Černač, Rugelj, Hvauc. Did I let anyone go? Additional names are Jerovšek, Ambassador Shirca and Pajk, Kovacic and the Prime Minister at the end. It's bad luck. Good. So we've got 50 minutes at our disposal. Each Member or Member shall have 2 minutes. The text is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u96	There is not much time, but it has encouraged me to write a reading in today's They on this subject that we are dealing with: I fully agree with the assessment of our current authority, which is full of cynicism, of the humiliation of small people who are looking for their human rights on the road, and you are ruling according to the principle: Whoever is not with me is against me. And that is the kind of punishment that should be punished. It's already bordering on dictatorship. It is easy to manage and spread our money by hiring an entire regiment of "experts", in quotations because you do not master the profession yourself, but you forget that you were elected. If it gets messy, no one's gonna answer that. A little man is going to get hurt. This is what Hilda Grošelj of the Ripper writes, and, of course, this fear of simple people is a fear that translates into me. For the reform will be led by a man who, in view of so far, has failed to express himself with a very large social and human sense. The statements give you the feeling that it is a person who measures everything with money, profit and marketability. He is obviously educated in a way that greatly promotes pro-American economic science and a model to deal with globalisation. And this one's supposed to be right for us. Everything is subordinated to the economy and to competitiveness, and the only solution is to be seen in the constraints that are being achieved through tax changes that are generous to capital owners and without a sense of social upgrading and human beings. And in this sense, I don't think it's true that from now on, wealth and consumption will be more taxed. No, no, no. From now on, there will be more taxed food, books, medicine and apartments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Mir Friday. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. During this time, I have looked a little at Kobis and such scientific references as Mr Damjan has, do not have Dr Science in this National Assembly. It is about 50 texts, scientific studies, scientific monographs, textbooks, much in English, much in Slovenian. I think that Mr Damjan's advantage is also to go far from Kumrovec, so he also has an advanced view of the world in the future and development. It has been said several times, or at least once, that some fear an academic experiment. I would say, however, that the academic experiment was much better than the revolutionary experiment, which resulted in 50 years of dictatorship. And I'm not afraid of reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Milan M. Cwickle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u100	I called to tell Mr. Janša again. The Minister for European Affairs did not fly to an exotic place, but after the government's decision to meet with Asia and the European Union in Hanoi in October 2004. Let them tell you this once. But it's not the only demanta. The key demanta that I am giving to the Prime Minister is that the development strategy of Slovenia does not contain a single tax rate, mention is made of workload and neither does the word increase consumption. And the single tax rate, Mr President, which is so advocated with Mr Damjan, is contrary to the development strategy of Slovenia. On the contrary, saying that we are building a society in which everyone and everyone should contribute according to economic power, but not saying that the richest contribute relatively more, is not true. The tax progress we know is established everywhere in the world because it is socially fair, except in Estonia and Slovakia, that the poor contribute less, for example, 1/10 of their tax revenues, and the richest should contribute more, for example, 1/3. It is right that, relatively speaking, they contribute 3 times the share of their gross salaries to finance public functions because they are economically stronger. The philosophy of the single tax rate you are proposing is, of course, wrong and is contrary to what the trade unionists have told you. It is not that the wind cannot be steered and that it is necessary to adjust the sails, but that it is necessary to hold on, and that everyone should pick up according to economic power. But you will not tax those who are so critical, the richest, but you will burden them. And in this is our criticism of the introduction of a single tax rate, who will finance this by increasing the taxation of consumption, all Slovenians and Slovenes. And this philosophy is not in the development strategy of Slovenia, and it is in your context of reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you. I ask all future debaters not to go to the red numbers on the time book. And I give my word to Ambassador Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Here it was heard from some debaters that Mr, a candidate for a minister, was teaching in a way that he could not be trusted. I say the other way around. Just from those countries where he studied, we know that they are pursuing such a policy that creates development and prosperity. I am also surprised that all the demagogies of colleagues and colleagues from the LDS, in particular, I have in mind Mr Cvikl and Lachovnik, about the single tax rate, that this is a matter that will harm. Firstly, nowhere is there any guarantee that we will introduce a single tax rate. Second, I am also surprised by why you have not so far offered any better, different solutions that could divert thinking in a convincing way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u103	My friend Milan M. Squeakl, you're running out of time, and that's why I can't give you a replica. I ask for the consideration of the other speakers, Members of Parliament and Members so that they do not unnecessarily trigger the replicas, because if this continues, I will allow the replicas in the following cases despite not reporting, but not in this case. I give my word to Ambassador Rudi Versnik. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I will say that I am not burdened with the past, as are some of the Members who started our mandate in 2004. But, look, we've always found consensus on big joint projects. However, we must also admit that there have always been some who have expressed some skepticism in these major projects, which I think is perfectly legitimate and right, we are not all the same. In the end, however, we were able to have large projects carried out, as they were, favourable to us, Slovenians. Despite the fact that some wanted to ask Belgrade whether we could be alone or not, and even though some have declared us militarists when we proposed to join NATO. Look, this time it comes up with some skeptics for my big project. And it's not true what some people say will be taxed only by the poor. The owners of large villas, yachts, planes and luxurious weekends will be taxed. Is that something wrong? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you. We continue the debate. I give my word to Ambassador Milenk Ziherl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to confirm that I support reforms. But I come from what we wanted when we entered the European Union, faster development. And faster development can only lead us through radical reforms that would eliminate the last consequences of our bad habits, the bad systems that were still coming from the previous country, which the previous governments, in their 12-year rule, were unable to eliminate, or were not willing to do so. We can also build on the good practice of some new accessions, which, at an accelerated pace, catch up with us who can talk about their success story. I have in mind the Baltic States, Slovakia, as well as in other European countries, in the 15th, the need for reforms, because globalisation, the global market, the new players on the market, like China and India, dictate new conditions, and we must take advantage of our options, our market niche and only through reforms, only by changing something on our own, we can compete, we can join in global developments, in global economic flows. After reforms, we can rightly expect an increase in prosperity and in such a system, if we create more, then more resources will be available for all segments of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you. The word has Anton Kokalj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u108	The new Minister without a licence, which is currently under discussion, is proposed on the basis of last year's amended Government Act. A different concept of government action is being implemented in relation to previous mandates. The concept proposed by the current Prime Minister, Mr Janša, will make it possible for the Government to achieve more effectively the objectives of improving the conditions for better development of Slovenia in all areas. From this point of view, the decision of the Prime Minister to propose a minister to coordinate the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy is a very important event. The fact that a new financial perspective has been negotiated on Saturday also increases and excuses the need for excellent coordination between the government and individual ministries. At this moment, I also congratulate our team on the successful conclusion of the negotiations. I believe that this is of exceptional importance for Slovenia and also a very great opportunity for the development strategy of Slovenia, as outlined, to be realized. The manner and person proposed by the Prime Minister is therefore optimal in his belief. That's why it's right to support him in this. It is responsible for the implementation of the programme that we have set ourselves in this mandate. I hope and believe that the appointment of Jožet P. Damjan will also help to better part of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! Today, at this presentation or at the candidate's proposal, we heard everything other than what we were supposed to talk about. I think that we have spent more than 90% of our time listening to the fears of some in the opposition, which have proven to be unrealistic so far. One of these was the mistake we made in mid-year when we did not join the group of countries prepared for the agreement proposed by the Luxembourg Presidency to cancel a large part of our resources. As with all other things in the past, this has shown that our government did the right thing and our negotiators did the right thing at the time. I am firmly convinced that when this minister is appointed, too, we are on the right track and that time will show that those who oppose him today are wrong. Obviously, some of you would like to reroute the wind that you once failed, and perhaps that is why we need a minister to stop you from doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Rugle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Today we can say that a day is one of the most important in the history of Slovenia, since we have gained independence and joined the European Union and, of course, the NATO Pact. I am pleased that Prime Minister Janez Janša has started these necessary reforms, both economically and socially. We all know where the current situation is taking us, so I think and I hope we haven't missed the last train yet. I know it's a long process, but we can do it together. I also support Mr Damian, of course, because he is the first one I have heard in my own ears on the Committee on the Economy, which has specifically and clearly stated what is wrong in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you. Comrade Rugelj, allow me to express my disagreement with you or not to share the same opinion with you about the importance of today. We continue the debate, with the word of our fellow Member, Srečko Hvauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr Vice President, distinguished Prime Minister, colleague, colleague. When I hear criticism of these reforms, I hear that it is an attack on the social state, that Mr Damjan is the one who advocates only capital, profit, economics and everything else he cares about. And that's exactly what you've been saying in the last ten years and a few years you've been allowing this country to actually divide into a handful of rich people who, in most cases, didn't earn a strong fortune with their honest work, but in some other way, and into a handful of other people who just don't have it. And then you pour your ashes and you say, and before that, we had a social state because we paid so much and so much social aid because the amount of these social assistance funds is so great. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a social state. The social state will be able to make enough money to have a decent life and survival for anyone who works honestly, who wants to create. This will only be achieved if we create more if we follow developments, if as few as possible of those who live at the expense of others as possible, and reforms are needed to do so. I therefore support the reforms, as well as the human resources choice of a minister who will be able and willing to coordinate and implement these reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you. I give the word to Ambassador Joseph Jerovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself believe that the work of a future minister without a ticket, if elected today, will be substantially facilitated, given what it looked like a week ago. I am referring to the adoption of a new financial perspective, where the Slovenian government has very successfully adopted its views and has also achieved great success. Unlike some prophets of these kinds who painted all black and their prophecy did not come true. See, I would expect that, in such situations, a politically neutral person without party preferences, as Mr Damjan has repeatedly pointed out in interviews, would receive some general acceptance and would actually take a look at his professional references. But it wasn't. That didn't happen. By contrast, we are listening here today to recite some pamphlets at the expense of the candidate for the new minister. It is interesting that the surname which has been read is identical with the former Member of these species, who is also from Trbovlje, so I suppose it is an ordered pamphlet at the expense of the Minister. At the end of the sharp criticism of government reform, Mr Ciccle would suggest that he use the experience of the world trade conference he attended and left one day prematurely. Let's take into account what positive energy has evolved with its departure - progress has been made immediately and the conference has succeeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u117	Comrade Jerovšek, I regret not to say thank you for the debate, because you have exceeded the content I spoke about earlier, and despite the fact that Commissioner Squeakl has no more time, I will allow him a two-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u118	I must first answer Mr Jerovsk that the World Trade Conference on Parliamentarians has ended on Thursday - Mr Kovacic can confirm this - so I left on Friday. However, the conclusions of the parliamentarians have had an impact on the fact that ministers have achieved something by Sunday, particularly - and that will be known by Mr President - on the basis of an agreement concluded in Brussels, not in Hong Kong. With regard to Mr Jerovšek's statements and some earlier on our criticism of reforms. Once again, nowhere, gentlemen, there is no single tax rate mentioned in the development strategy of Slovenia. No Lisbon Strategy Talks About a Single Tax Rate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u119	Comrade Squeakle, you're going to the debate. Please stick to the replica, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u120	I'll finish. And it's just that I agree with you - suggest taxation of property, suggest taxation of the richest, but don't say anything about it yet. So far, all you're talking about is that you've taken one measure of action. However, because of this combat measure, due to the poor budget already next year, no matter what happens to the single tax rate, it will be necessary to increase the taxation of consumption by raising VAT. These are the facts, these are the papers, these are the documents that Mr Janša himself has forwarded to the National Assembly and these documents are the fact that we are operating on. But when the property tax proposals are here, when you do, I'll be the first to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you. We continue the discussion on the basis of the list of applicants. The word is by Ambassador Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The reforms presented by today's candidate are written as a seminar assignment and have no analyses, reminders or research. Let us know that the reforms that have taken place in the past in the 12 years have not taken place in such a simple and simple manner and have been based on strong dialogue with all the partners that have touched them. Let me also comment, Mr Prime Minister, on neutralisation in the field of culture. It is true, Mr Janša, that subsidies may increase, but what does it mean to increase and increase or just focus on subsidies. It also means control and greater dependence on the state. It also means collecting someone, separating grains from weeds, and it can also mean modern inquisition. There is a danger if we do not use other measures as they do in the recommendations of the European Union. One more thing. In order to manipulate politics in one way or another, it was necessary to have some measure, it was heard just now. True, and this measure must also have arguments. There are no referendums at taxes, including lies that some contributions may be reduced but not reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Stannet Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Presidents, Colleagues, Colleagues. Of course, I support reforms. I had the opportunity to meet with a candidate for minister on the Committee on the Economy. He convinced me, I have to say. Of course, most of all, I have in mind that it gives great emphasis to the knowledge that flows into added value, but the added value is due to increased growth, greater growth, less unemployment, and this is the best way to alleviate social problems, the best way. As for the time in which reforms are coming, I think he is very happy because, through successful negotiations, our government has achieved very, very good results. 12 billion tolars a year or half a billion euros have never been dreamed of before, even though many bad or even ugly words have been said on this account. This money could be invested in development, among other things, and more money from our home budget could also be spent on social welfare, so that the lowest income layers will not be deprived of it. Of course, it may hurt those who are a little bit more taxed and who are now so happy to protect, as well as unionists who fear [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They don't care much about the unemployed. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Dimitri Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. According to his professional references and his work so far, the proposed Minister is certainly qualified as Minister for Guidance and Implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy. Reforms are needed in Slovenia if we want to achieve faster economic development in the future, which will be the only way to ensure prosperity and a better life for all. The proposed reforms, which will allow better living conditions in Slovenia in the process of adoption and after necessary negotiations with the social partners, must be coordinated by a person who has the will, the ability and also the belief that they represent reforms for Slovenia a unique opportunity for Slovenia to enter the circle of developed countries. As a result, this will mean a better life for all and not more, as the previous ruling set of years has offered, a success story for only a narrow group of people who have made astronomically rich, while for all other success stories there has been no success story. In my opinion, the proposed minister candidate will surely be able to provide all Slovenian citizens with more prosperity in directing the implementation of the reforms, which will be as they are set out, so that this ministerial candidate will also be successful in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Tomaž Stebeth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me quote two responses from the candidate for minister regarding the single tax rate and his sense of social affairs. The proposed VAT parity is not a single tax rate but a tax on paid salaries introduced by the Drnovskova government in 1996 and with which today 125 billion tolls of revenue per year are flowing into the treasury. Even without the introduction of a single tax rate, this amount should be obtained somewhere, if we are to resolve the disputed, for the economy to be extremely harmful, a tax. Loss of revenue can be collected with a higher VAT which, through taxation, would relieve the economy. We have also proposed taxation of property and, in particular, luxury property, which is not taxed at all. Such a single incision in public consumption would not be possible. During the transition, the LDS set up a very controversial composition of public financial expenditure, with almost 90% covering legal obligations such as public sector employees' salaries; pensions, family benefits, various social transfers, etc. If we want public spending to be reduced by 125 billion at the same time, we should either lay off tens of public servants overnight or reduce social transfers and pensions for example. This would not solve anything, as new social problems that should be addressed with additional budgetary money would build up. It is also possible to intervene on the country's investment expenditure, which would have a retroactive impact on economic growth and the rest of investment and infrastructure, etc. This is said to be the consequences to be addressed, at least the consequences of such a way of charging and charging the budget and then supplying various transfers that are more or less unjustifiable. This suggests that the candidate for minister has a good feeling and that he knows where things need to be handled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you. I would like to take the floor to invite the president of the exercise, Mr. Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thanks again for saying that. First, I would say that the development strategy of Slovenia and the framework for economic and social reforms were written by the same people. Most of the people in charge of this process were the same. Some have even been in the previous government, saying that these two documents are in conflict is, once again, highly non-creditable. Of course, we have two documents because one is strategic and talks about goals and the other is implementation and talks about methods. And these two levels need to be separated, and I would expect that from those who make themselves known to separate. The method is not specified in the strategy, but the objectives are set out. One of these objectives is to relieve work. After the workload of the work, the wages, if you want, the labour force, the European Union summit and the need to relieve the work, we all agree. However, the loss of this income has to be replaced in some way. Here are the great dilemmas and various suggestions. For once, the worst critics of the measure, which is proposed, have not offered anything new. Perhaps in the end another method will be proposed, very likely, we will see, the goal is important, as far as the methods of the final decision are concerned. However, I fear that then there will be great sadness among those who have only read one of the 70 measures, because then they will have to read the other 69 and the debate will start again. However, as the debate is closing, I would like to express my gratitude to all those who have supported my proposal. I think that support is significant and that Slovenia will get a new minister to coordinate development issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you. With the intervention of the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, we are done with the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th point or at the latest at 19.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Point of the Day - Second Commentary Law on Planine Roads. In doing so, I remind you that the debate is expected to take 40 minutes. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members, with Rudolf Mohet first signed. Under this law, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 134 [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't calm down, I'm going to stop this meeting. It's your call. I understand your departure from the hall. Let's proceed with the meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed law, Mr Rudolph Mohet, for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is a young country. In this young country, legislation is also young and, therefore, for the normal functioning of the country, it was necessary to adopt first the legislation that made this statehood possible, from internal affairs, external matters, defence, local self-government and so on. And as a robbery, there remains that part of the legislation that concerns individual interests or interest groups. That we are indeed here on thin ice, we are witnessing the official document of the Kingdom of Drava Banovina, which was the first such document we have been able to collect and in which is ordered by Bana Drava Banovina on the marking of the path, trails and skis in Drava Banovina. Something similar is written in the Statute of the Mountain Association of Slovenia, but it is far too small for this matter to be settled for us. Therefore, Members from the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, DeSUS, Liberal Democracy, Slovenian National Party and Slovenian People's Party agreed to write a law that will regulate this area. The main guide in the writing of the law was the fact that we acquired private property with the new country, which is precisely enshrined in Article 33 of the Constitution. This property also allows the owner access to his property, since in several property areas you have written "private property, passage prohibited". The mountain trails have now run through many plots that have passed into private property, and there is no law, except what is written in the statute of the Mountain Association, that through this and this parcel runs this and this mountain path and that this is regulated by law. If we do not regulate this by law, if the will of the owners is to do so, we can also close the Slovenian mountain path and all the other roads and walk where this is allowed. We have done this in such a way that we have written this law, put it into procedure. The law states that the landowner permits a transition, a smooth passage through the plot through which the mountain route passes, in return for this, his cadastral income is reduced or reduced in exchange for a dose of the mountain path for this area. This was the main point of this law so that we could even walk in Slovenia where we might think. The other thing that's not too big is that we've protected Knafel's brand with this law. Whoever walked the mountain trails is the sign that has a white dot in the middle and a circular colloquial. If we don't do this, we all know her as Knafel's branding, we may be able to do this first in Croatia, name it after some of their well-deserved mountaineer, and, as we have lost the original for Lipica, we may also lose the original in this sense that instead of our well-deserved mountaineer, as I am now using her, we will be named after someone else from other countries of the European Union. The third thing we wanted to do was improve the tourist offer. Surely you have noticed more or less everyone and have seen how many mountaineers in the summer also turn on our hiking trails to not only go to Postojna cave or to the coast. If we are to have a quality tourist offer, in this case something must also be done and these paths improved, however they may be. And for the fourth time, it has to be said that there are still too many crosses along mountain paths. Hugely, more than 20 deaths per year, hugely damaged disabled people, because the country is still so worried about these mountain routes that it distributes 7 million tolls to mountain societies and 3 million tolls of air transport, and everything else does not care. I think that, honourable Members and Members, these are great enough reasons for you to support the law; unfortunately, we have also responded in detail to the government's statements that they are wrong, but the government wants another law in which it would alter the Mountain Union of Slovenia. We do not want to do this, but we want to settle it, and we will be grateful to you with the 67,000 mountaineers on which this law came into existence and I pray that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u133	Time was running out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u134	This law has been upheld. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek, SDS, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u136	A well-respected council, a respected representative of the government! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the decision of the Committee of the National Education, Culture and Sports Council that the proposal of the Mountain Routes Act, signed by Rudolf Mohet, is not suitable for further consideration. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Education and Sport also gave an opinion on the proposal for a law on mountain routes. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed law. The purpose of the proposed Mountain Routes Act is to identify, maintain and build mountain routes and to move users smoothly along them. The bill defines a mountain path as usually a maximum of one metre wide zone of land on mostly hilly, hilly and bitter world, only in emergency cases fortified with natural material. In view of the fact that a public road or forest road is often used as part of a mountain road, the law provides that on such part of the mountain road the rules governing public roads and the safety of traffic on them or the regulation governing forests apply. The question of the role of the guardian of the mountain routes in the public interest is addressed by the law by the implementation of a concession invitation to tender to be made by the government as a concessionary and then carried out as concessionaires or operators of such an economic public service. In its negative opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia first notes that the law under consideration, like the previous proposal of the Mountain Routes Act, does not resolve the fundamental issue to that law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and, secondly, has withdrawn it from the legislative procedure, that is, which of the mountain societies can act as guardian of the mountain routes, and the issues of the relationship between mountain societies and the current Mountain Association of Slovenia, in which they are not, and under the provisions of Article 11 of the Societies Act, it is also not mandatory to include all existing mountain societies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that a law to protect existing and build new mountain paths is certainly necessary, and it is subject to the findings of its opinion that the law should be rewritten and that the basic organisational principles of mountain societies should also be regulated. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will complement its work programme with the Mountain and Mountain Routes Act, which will be prepared by an appropriate working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Finance. This is in addition to the area of sports recreation in the natural environment and conservation of nature also in the areas of agriculture, forestry, mountain law relations and public finances, if, as such, mountaineering is to be considered a public benefit. Therefore, we will not support this bill from all of the above and from the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you for your position. This is followed by the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy, Member Rudolf Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u138	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your statement. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I see that almost no one cares about this thing, and even those who sit here are talking, but let's just leave it at the side. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are very proud and happy to approach the issue of mountain climbing through the law and safe walking in the mountains. After all, some statistics also point to this. We have 244 companies, 168 mountain stands, the Mountain Union of Slovenia has 67,000 members, an annual visit to mountain stands 1.5 million people and the length of the route is 7,000 kilometers. If you think 6,000 kilometers is a radius of the earth, there are more of these paths; from the center of the earth you could come into space with these paths. In the Liberal Democracy, we are very disappointed by the fact that the following has happened on the committee. Members have written a brief comment to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law on mountain routes, in which they point out where the government is wrong. The government did not want to reply to this, nor did anyone else reply to it, but some Members voted in favour of the government proposal at the time as a machine. In view of the fact that Members and Members would be familiar with these words in their decision-making, we also addressed Mr Francet Cukjati, President of the National Assembly, the application for additional material for the second reading of the proposed Mountain Routes Act, where we said that Members would be familiar with the position of the proposed Mountain Routes Act to the opinion of the Government and where they would also receive a letter from the Mountain Association of Slovenia. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that any of this has happened? Nothing happened. The president of the National Assembly also cares nothing about mountain routes in terms of this relationship. Or at least he'd let us know and tell us why he did what he did. I think that the articles of the law, which speak mainly of the fact that the designations of protected roads are essential for the safe walking of mountain visitors and represent part of the country's tourist offer, are also, in our opinion, the most healthy way of recreation and spiritual riches for the old and young. Clearly, however, there are still too many fatalities in our mountains, and it is everyone's moral duty to help reduce this and to ensure, with its activities and also safe walking in the mountains, that we can also partially arrange Members and Members of the National Assembly. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, whether by pressing the button we will remove the number of deaths, or whether we will arrange these things or not, and leave it to the government, which we find extremely irresponsible to try to form a new Mountain Union of Slovenia in our comments, not the one we now have. This seems extremely irresponsible to us, it seems extreme to us, that one would say, "strange," as we call this Styrians. Since the first marriage was introduced, this has been in the previous term, and we have tabled it by a Member of the Democratic Party, Mr Vnučec and I, the government has done nothing in this area, except that it has written negative opinions. I can say that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support this law. This support will be our Christmas Eve to the 67 mountains to set up this area for them. If Mr Cukjat did not wish to give you this letter, I also serve you the last paragraph of this letter of the Mountain Association before you vote: "Our wish is to support the adoption of the proposed law, because we have prepared it for several years in our best interests and in its preparation take into account many different comments and coordinate with different stakeholders. Mountaineers go to the hills because we love them and we're friends with them, no matter where we come from and which party we belong to. We're surrounded by hills." Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Liberal Democracy we also expect you to give your consent in 2006 to this area as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Master Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Group of the Social Democrats will not support the proposal to conclude that the Mountain Routes Act is not suitable for further consideration. We will not close the way to a group of Members and Members from almost all parliamentary parties, including the Social Democrats' Group of Members, because we know that the proposal for a law of compliance is worth a group of qualified people. Lawmakers have incorporated in the text a great deal of their experience gained in the long-standing organization of mountaineering and the regulation of mountain routes, as well as experience from the new situations facing new ownership relationships in the maintenance and use of mountain routes. It is also true that this is not the first proposal on the issue in question, and it is therefore difficult to accept the opinion of the government which rejects the proposal that the amendment is unnecessary, because it is best that the law be rewritten completely and that it also regulates the fundamental organisational principles of mountain societies. The government intends to complement its work programme to this end, and the proposal will be prepared by a specific interdisciplinary working group. It follows from this that the government did not have such a law to regulate the mountain routes in the plan, but it seemed necessary to say that the proposal was not appropriate, but that it had received this legislative proposal for support from some local communities, some of the mountain societies from the environment, which means that those who bring together the mountains do not see in this legislative proposal such provisions as would lead them to deny support for the marriage proposal. We believe that the government's first comment is more about one another, unfortunately, even the law that has not yet been passed. What the basic organisational principles of mountain societies should be, in fact, is a matter of social law. However, who will be awarded a concession for the guardian of the mountain routes in the public interest is the subject of a concession invitation to tender under which the concession contract will be concluded and which will provide more details on the obligations. This is probably where the real reason for rejecting the law is hidden. The government in the Mountain Association of Slovenia does not see itself as an acceptable interlocutor, although it is a union of societies that can boast of a long and successful tradition. How to obtain the status of society in the public interest is also known. Of course, the second question is whether it is really necessary to arrange a single organization, not only for mountaineering, but also for hiking. The government seems to be more interested in other things. Taking care of mountain paths and maintaining them and marking them is of secondary importance to them. How else to understand that she will prepare the law, the name is important, about mountaineering and mountain paths. But the obvious thing about this law is that it didn't involve hiking. We see no reason why hiking could not be properly included if this is really such a problem. We do not see, however, that hiking would be defined in any other way than defined mountaineering, at least as regards the effects, meaning, values or functions of both activities. Also in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments have been made on eight articles of 46, and we have not addressed so many serious shortcomings that the law should be rejected. When I received a proposal for additions and justifications to them, where it was clearly stated that the amendments were coming from the legislative and legal services' comments and that they were also addressing fundamental concerns, I expected that on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports we would be taking up the complementaryity of the bill, in particular as the usual practice on the Committee is that, with many additions, we would address the comments of legal experts. Last but not least, the government stated in its opinion that the objectives and purposes are the right ones. Obviously, he was not only a real candidate, which means that we are getting the rejection of this proposal politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Emissary Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well-welcome representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposed Mountain Routes Act refers to the marking, maintenance and construction of mountain routes and the smooth movement of users along them. In Novi Slovenija we were disturbed by a number of articles in this law, including, among other things, Article 4, and Article 5, where applicants address sensitive topics, that is property rights. The proposed law states that landowners must allow a safe passage and allow smooth maintenance of mountain routes. Primarily, we are disturbed by coercion, instead of an agreed agreement between owners and mountaineers. It is not defined who is responsible for the safety of hikers against domestic animals and wild animals. The mountain trails cross the pastures. This should probably be fenced by landowners, resulting in additional costs. The owners usually do not object to the transition, but not just on average, over the parcel, but preferably at the site of the parcel. That is why it seems to us that we cannot adopt law without an agreement between owners and mountaineers. The following article states that landowners have the right to reduced basic cadastral income by a tax rate. The evaluation shall be made by the Ministry of Space. This is a kind of regulation that does not exist in other legislation. This means that, on the basis of the Ministry of the Environment’s assessment, taxes on areas intended for mountain follow-up would be cancelled on the basis of a cadastral basis. We also wonder whether the law at all falls under the Ministry of Culture, Education and Sport. Applicants see mountaineering only as sport, enjoyment of nature, education of attitude towards nature. This is certainly true, but mass hikes in the mountains themselves are more damaging than they are beneficial, especially when it becomes a fashion fly and competition among people, and when cyclists and motorcycles come into the mountains, as well as endangering the safety of hikers and turning mountains, mountains into the survival of passion. There is certainly no role in the law of the local community, which belongs to mountain paths, if not to other, hiking stations, where mountain trails begin. Usually, even well - informed hikers do not come to the beginning of the journey on foot, but with cars and leave them at the foot. All of this imposes additional investment in infrastructure on the local community. The law mentions only mountain associations and mountain societies, their meaning and their role. Even when it comes to granting concessions to maintain mountain routes. For example, the miner is forgotten. We wonder whether individual concessionaires will be able to perform all this role, including markings, road maintenance, guidance and so on. Instead of the many smaller societies that have performed these tasks so far. The law provides for an increase in financing for mountaineering from 9 million to 20 million for Marquests, maintenance of roads, and not for other financial consequences of that law, including the consequences of Article 5 and others. In Novi Slovenija we will not support the law because of the comments mentioned above. However, this matter will certainly need to be tackled and fully regulated in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the member of the Slovenian People's Party. Ambassador Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleague and colleague! On the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, we faced a proposal for a bill on mountain routes submitted by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed Rudolf Mohet. The explanation of the articles stated by the proposer that mountaineering is defined by law as a network of sports, recreational, economic and cultural activities related to mountain nature and that mountaineering as such represents one of the fundamental values and identity of the Slovenian people. This area is not yet legally regulated in Slovenia. The proposal is also intended to increase the safety of visitors to our mountain world and the protection of nature. Nor does the bill support the government, especially because the law does not regulate the relations between mountain societies and the mountain association of Slovenia and does not solve the fundamental question, which of the mountain society can act as the guardian of mountain routes. We also believe in the Slovenian People's Party that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Unfortunately, the proposal does not regulate the relationship between mountain societies and the Mountain Association of Slovenia. However, the law does not properly regulate concessional relations, where local communities are completely ignored. Local communities should be one of the parties to the concession contract. By laying down the conditions for the concessionaire, smaller mountain companies are placed in an unequal position, as they will not be able to apply for the tender for the custodian of a particular mountain route, even though they are currently taking exemplary care of this route. The draft law also makes it completely unclear and unclear to regulate property relations with landowners on which mountain routes are taking place. As a substitute, the law only provides for the right to reduce the base of the cadastral income for the tax assessment, but not for the appropriate compensation. Nor is the proposed funding arrangement appropriate, as the total burden is being passed on to the country, with resources not provided in the 2006 and 2007 national budget. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the law governing mountaineering and hiking is essential, so we appeal to the government to draw up a proposal for a law in the framework of interdepartmental cooperation, which would also set out the tasks and competences in the field of mountaineering and hiking. It is also necessary to regulate the protection of existing and the construction of new mountain routes, the conditions for their safe and proper use, and in particular financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you. We are moving to the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, colleague Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President. It's a good thing we don't have a marriage in front of us, but I would. He'd be called the butterfly law, he'd have one article and he'd say butterflies could fly. I'm sure the coalition wouldn't accept him. For political reasons or for whatever. The Mountain Roads Act is inappropriate. Of course, it is appropriate that we have the last legal arrangement even since 1933, from Drava Banovina. That a million and a half Slovenians visit mountain houses is irrelevant. That 15% of the Slovenians are mountain people is irrelevant. The relationship between mountain society and mountain society is important. The mountaineers are still walking in the hills, making their own markings, making their own way, and no matter what the relationship is. A meter of land someone should give so a mountain boy can go to the hills! You know, we're all born, we're alive, as long as we've been given to take care of health, and when we die, we've only got a hole three feet by two meters, but we can't take anything with us to that hole. And now, if the concern is a meter of land that goes by private property, even though the law regulates the compensation for that, then we will certainly come a long way. That mountaineering is the pride of Slovenia, that sport, recreation, economy, humanitarian activity, research activity, cultural activity, tourism activity, sports-recreational activity is irrelevant. Of course it's irrelevant, because Rudi Mogo is a cosigner, for example, Barovic. It is not true what you claimed to be riding bicycles and so on, motors, cars, because this law clearly states that the marked mountain paths will not allow this law. So you didn't make it up. We Slovenians have great pride, which is called Knafel's brand. Of course, it doesn't matter either. Croats or Europeans will come, and they'll have their stamps, and then we'll be losers and gentlemen. And the government is going to make a great mountain law. Please! I'd tell you a lot more, but I think it's so stupid! How can you say that marriage is not appropriate, that it is uncoordinated, inherently disorderly! That there is no regulated relationship between mountain societies and mountain links. People work whether it's marriage or not. We want to legitimize what they do. Identify the people who will be responsible. Identify the people who will take care of the marked and mountain paths. Not to say that the law doesn't regulate it. The law regulates that if you read it. Why, though, if the government has such a serious intention of wanting to make a new marriage, why has it not put amendments to this marriage? Because the amendments would be three, property rights, social relations and mountain relations, and I don't even know who the third would be. Why didn't she make the amendments and the law would be adopted today by the government amendments or by the coalition parties. On the one hand, we are full of words about healthy life, banning smoking, banning those, banning them, banning the fourth, saving in the field of health, caring for our own body, taking care of recreation, and on the other hand, the God-fearing 11 million that would be necessary, 11 million I said, only 11 million tolars, but the big problem that would have to be given and helped the mountaineers, when they are already paying everything out of their pockets, and the society, and the mountain union is what little they get. It's a shame. If you are soldiers, it is a shame to listen to such stupid commands, but if you think so yourself, it is an even greater shame that this law on mountain paths is not appropriate, from the political point of view of the coalition - position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u147	Comrade Barovich, have you finished? Thank you for your blue thoughts. We continue the debate. I give my word to the DeSUS Group. Comrade Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I'll start and I'll finish. The words we now pronounce in favour, in support of this law, the bill, appear to run into the deaf ear and also respond in a rather empty hall. It is not, indeed, an appropriate interest in supporting it, in particular those who did not listen to the most facilities in relation to this bill. But we assumed, when we signed the bill, that it was about signing something that was in the interest of the Slovenes, the Slovenes, which is in the interest of our mountains, which is in the interest of mountaineering, our tradition, which is in the interest of everything that is not necessarily related to customer policy. Perhaps, however, it was a mistake not to associate this with customers or politics. For a number of Members and Members from the five parties represented in this Chamber and from both minority Members or Members of Parliament and Members of Members have been signed. It seemed to us that this could really be a non-party project. But it seemed to us something that didn't have the right correspondence in reality. We belong, in the DeSUS Group of Members, to say that it was worth contributing to our two signatures, and we feel it is worth reconsidering now and supporting the law because, as has already been said, it is also worth changing. To improve it even more. This is probably what the government had in mind when it said about it - now I will just repeat this in a short time, what my colleague read before me in debt - because, according to the government, the law regulating the area of mountaineering and hiking is urgently needed. This urgency seems to be something we should just put off. And we propose that we set up a commission that, I don't know, once in the future, is probably going to start to do this, but now we have the opportunity to implement this necessity that we are also going to say that we are for this kind of law to be passed. We have been thinking when we signed this bill on the need to develop a healthy way of life, that mountains should be preserved, that we should be able to understand and live with nature. We meant that those of us who love mountains and who go there, even greet, smile, shake hands, help each other, never any arguments, there is nothing quite different than in a parliamentary house. Here, we may find it different that someone who looks at us with a silver eye and is not prepared to see if it is possible to cooperate and what is good to do. We are too fragmented, and here was an opportunity to forget about this fragmentation, to go in a direction that would regulate the situation in our mountains and mountains, even in the valley, if it was hiking, but the will seems to have run out. The will remains in stock for one time later, for another commission, for another bill, for another stinging necessity. I will not make progress now with all that is saying in favour of supporting this, also taking into account the concerns raised on the government's side. But my thought goes this way, it has already been mentioned, why we should reject a law that is still weak in individual parts. Why don't we get him where he's weak, why don't we make him better? Why not do as we do with any other marriage that leaves no article unamended? And the opposition party proposed it, and only the address and ambition remained, and everything else was changed. In this law we would have much less to do, but we could adapt it so that it could be accepted by all to the benefit of the mountains, the mountains, the mountain then, our mountain houses and cottages and, of course, to all of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thanks, buddy Rezman. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today within the framework of the vote item, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or at the latest at 19:00 and 55 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - This is firstly a proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Slovaks outside its borders. In doing so, I remind you that a total time of 3 hours and 40 minutes is foreseen for the debate. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this point or with regard to this law, a group of ten Members, with the first signed Merrant, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. We will give the word to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, wait for him to sit down and prepare, and then follow the positions of the parliamentary groups. I would like to ask the government representative to step forward for the central booth and give a position or report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u150	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! A special greeting also to those representatives and members of the Slovenians in exchange and from the world who have joined us for today's special occasion in the National Assembly. The Act on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, which begins today's adoption process in the National Assembly, is a legal act regulating relations between the Slovenian State and Slovenians living in place and around the world. By means of the proposed law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to make more specific provision in Article 5 of the Constitution for the care of the Republic of Slovenia towards the Slovenians in place and worldwide. The law lays down the competences of the various authorities of the Republic of Slovenia in this field, regulates their competences and tasks in relation to cooperation with Slovenians outside the Slovenian country in the field of culture, including cultural heritage and publishing, ensuring the preservation of the knowledge of Slovenian language, cooperation in the field of science and higher education and sport, as well as, not least, the care for economic and regional cooperation. The law also provides the necessary legal basis for better regulation of financing, operation, organisation of members of Slovenian communities outside the Republic of Slovenia. Let us recall only the annual difficulties with the Court's assessments, which have repeatedly identified the controversy of certain procedures and at the same time recognised that problems arise mainly due to the absence of legal bases. The following are also articles which provide Slovenians with no Slovenian citizenship, certain rights and benefits in keeping them, i.e. Slovenian culture and connection with the Republic of Slovenia. Repatriation is provided for in the law as the form of return of relatives, which is financially and organisationally carried out by the Republic of Slovenia. It is intended primarily for those Slovenians in foreign countries who, for various reasons, have come under difficult circumstances and also for those who, with their return to the Republic of Slovenia and their rapid integration into our society, would contribute significantly to the common development and enforcement of the Slovenian state. By this law, the proposer intends to systematically regulate the area of cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians in place and around the world. This area has so far been regulated by the individual provisions of 28 different laws. The proposed law will bring most of the cases together in one place, which will be an extremely practical solution for our relatives around the world, while at the same time clearly expressing the concern of the Republic of Slovenia for their equal integration into Slovenian society. The taken care of the Republic of Slovenia vis-à-vis Slovenians in place and around the world has been confirmed by the adoption of two resolutions of the National Assembly, in 1996 for Slovenians in substitution and in 2001 for Slovenians in the world. The current proposal of the law already in its first part also stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will form a special permanent consultative body for Slovenians in place and implementation of the policy towards Slovenians worldwide. At the end of this introductory presentation of the bill, I would like to thank my predecessor and my colleagues and colleagues in the office who, with their engagement, have contributed to the fact that the proposed legislative text is appropriate for the initiation of the hearing in the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! I invite you to support the proposed text and, where necessary, to supplement it with amendments, so that the final legal act will meet our common basic expectations in a qualitative manner. This is that with the various legal and organisational arrests of Slovenia outside the borders of the Slovenian state, we link and integrate as well as possible into the common creativity of the Slovenian people in all areas of social life. By means of this law, the Republic of Slovenia wants to offer them the opportunity to develop their creative potentials qualitatively outside our country and to enforce them for the benefit of all. Thank you very much for your attention and with your best wishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you to Mr Pelikan, State Secretary at the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians, in place and worldwide. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Davorin Terčon will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u152	Dear Mr President, distinguished High Council, representatives of the public concerned, dear fellows, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, let me welcome the initiative of fellow Members of the Social Democrats who have allowed today's general debate on the fundamental objectives and purposes, solutions and measures proposed by the Government in the proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenians outside its borders. In the LDS, we believe that there is no reason for us to adopt the law in haste and without a thorough consideration of the key conceptual starting points of the legal regime in the past of the established policy of the Republic of Slovenia towards the foreigners and Slovenes around the world. The LDS will actively participate in the debate. By our power, especially in the second reading, we will try to contribute primarily to the adoption by the National Assembly of a law that addresses the needs, interests and expectations of those to whom this law is intended primarily for, that is, foreigners and Slovenes around the world. Slovenia, however, has already taken care of relations with Slovenians around the world, especially on the basis of a resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and on migration policy and relations with Slovenians around the world, to strengthen and deepen contacts with foreigners, residents and displaced persons in different areas, such as education, culture and the like. However, we welcome and support the preparation and adoption of such a law in principle, but we believe that the Government's proposal for a law for further consideration needs to be more substantially conceived, finalized and amended. In no way can we agree with the LDS Club on the way this law is drawn up, when active participation in the preparation of this law has not been possible for the interlocutors, who have been active in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as for the central institution of national and foreign policy. This sheds a very strange light on those pre-election, as well as the plausible promises made by the top representatives of the current government to act transparently and make decisions in dialogue with civil society. At the same time, we would also like to point out that the law before us should be adopted with the broadest possible agreement of political parties and not only with the support of the coalition voting machine. In the course of the legislative process, we will also propose amendments to the law in this direction in the LDS House of Members, so we expect the ruling coalition to make an exception this time and really listen to the proposals for improvements that are in the interest of all of us, and especially of foreigners and Slovenians around the world. The text of the bill, as we have recently received in the parliamentary procedure, is conceptually outdated, as it revives Slovenia as the basis for individual identity. In the 21st century, however, it forgets the fundamental ideas and building blocks of the European community, such as multiculturalism and inter-ethnic co-existence and the promotion and care of cultural minorities. The proposed law has also been identified as problematic by representatives of the largest foreign organisations because it is conceptually inappropriate and inconsistent, and in particular does not take into account the actual interests and expectations of the indigenous Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries, since the applicant did not listen to the presentations of the foreign organisations about the role of the organised indigenous Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries. For the LDS Club, the draft law mainly disputes solutions concerning the composition, appointment and functioning of the two consultative bodies, namely the Council for Foreigners and the Council for Slovenians worldwide, the way in which the media are financed, the role and position and the powers of the Office for Slovenians around the world, the rights arising from the status of Slovenians without a Slovenian citizen and the completely obsolete solution to the immigration home in the case of repatriated persons. We believe that we need more time, a substantial reflection and, above all, a broad social consensus for the adoption of the bill, so in the LDS Club, at least in our work, we challenge the content of this law, but we do not dispute the intention of Slovenia to receive such a law. We predict that, in the second reading, we will propose that, for the sake of improving the text of the law and of adopting solutions that will actually benefit foreigners and Slovenians around the world, there should also be a public presentation of opinions. We expect members of the committee to support this initiative for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the law on relations with Slovenians outside its borders must be adopted. That is why we have also proposed a general treatment of the law. From the point of view of the State's attitude and policy, we must strive to adopt the law by consensus and not by voting. Experts estimate that at the beginning of the 21st century there are around 170,000 Slovenians living on traditional settlement territory directly for the national border of the Republic of Slovenia. About 100,000 in Italy in Tržaška, Goriška and Videmski krajina, Austria, Koroška and Štajerska about 40,000, in Przebje, Hungary about 5,000 and some 1000 along the Slovenian Croatian border. Outside the homeland or outside the borders of Slovenian ethnic territory, there are more than 350,000 displaced persons and their descendants, all who are still aware of their ethnic origin. According to 2001 estimates, more than 60,000 Slovenians lived in Western European countries. In the United States and Canada around 150,000, in South America about 30,000, of which 25,000 in Argentina and Australia also about 25,000, about 40,000 live in the area of the former Yugoslavia, the largest, good 22 000 in Croatia. The reasons for the move were economic, the search for better profits and social security, political, for example, the escape from persecution, the desire for political religious and ideological freedom and many other personal reasons. Thus, together outside the boundaries of the home country lives about half a million or more than 20% of Slovenes and Slovenes, of which 60 000 have Slovenian citizenship. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the State shall take care of indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for Slovenian expatriates and residents, and shall facilitate their contacts with the country, and that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship may enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia. The type and extent of these rights and benefits are laid down by law. The state and its authorities are tasked with caring for Slovenians around the world and in their place. Cooperation with Slovenians and Slovenians around the world is taking place in many areas, as it is a constitutional area governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 28 sectoral laws and two important documents adopted by the National Assembly by consensus, namely a resolution on the situation of Slovenian indigenous minorities in neighbouring countries and a resolution on relations with Slovenia around the world. In addition to these two resolutions, Slovenia is also covered by the foreign policy declaration, the resolution on the national security strategy and the resolution on the migration policy of the Republic of Slovenia. The declaration of support for the protection of the Slovenian minority in Italy is also applicable. Many international agreements seek to strengthen the position of Slovenians in place and throughout the world and regulate their situation and enable them to resolve certain issues. Among them are the most important Austrian State Treaty, the 7th of which is still not fully implemented, and the winter agreements, and the agreement on the provision of special rights of the Slovenian National Minority in the Republic of Hungary and the Hungarian National Community in the Republic of Slovenia. Indirectly, however, Slovenia is also covered by all other agreements between Slovenia and the countries in which it lives. It is clear from this that there was no legal void in this area; this law only unites things in one place. The interest and responsibility of countries to take care of their relatives abroad are not disputed from the perspective of various existing bilateral and multilateral agreements and documents on the situation and protection of national minorities, such as the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages and other documents. Organisation of the United Nations and the OSCE. It would probably be bilateral agreements that would allow countries to agree on their own regulation of the protection of national minorities and also on the implementation of obligations, the best way to deal with minority issues between countries, but we can see from practice that unfortunately some of them are not being fully implemented. It is precisely for this reason that an integrated law is needed, but the law must deal well with the whole problem, as a similar law was adopted in Hungary in 2001, which has come across a number of criticisms from some international institutions, such as the High Commissioner for Minorities, the Security and Cooperation Organisation in Europe, the Venice Commission in the Council of Europe and the position of the European Commission. One of the major shortcomings of the bill before us today is the strengthening of the institutional role of the government office for Slovenians in substitution and in the world as it has today. The Slovenian Minority Coordination proposed that minority care be taken by the Minister without a licence or that the Office return under the auspices of the Foreign Ministry. Minority issues relate to several pillars: economy, culture, education, and should also be addressed at government meetings. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the government has not decided to set up such a ministry and thus to demonstrate its attitude towards this issue. The fact that 14 secretaries of state for Slovenians have been replaced in place and around the world in the past ten years is a sufficiently eloquent information. Here are some general comments. Article 10 may be disputed which imposes on a minority a form of representation. The law further explicitly discusses cooperation in the field of culture and concern for the preservation of the Slovenian language, so it is not understandable that the competent ministry has lost the possibility to decide on the means for cultural projects, or that this same Ministry of Culture has abolished the intended mandatory library copy for Slovenian libraries in place. Also controversial are those provisions which discriminate against citizens in Slovenia, such as admission to higher education institutions under more favourable conditions and so on. In particular, it would raise concerns about the financing system of substitute organisations, which has focused on the Office without any significant involvement of covering foreign organisations and Slovenian minority coordination. The abolition of the separate budget lines for the Slovenian Emigration Matrix, the Slovenian World Congress and the Society of Slovenia in the world. If such a financing practice is also after the adoption of this bill, then this will not be good and will mean the politicisation and discrimination of certain covert foreign organisations, and the gradual abolition of the Slovenian immigrant matrix, which was established in 1951 and has taken place this year, thanks to the government's decision, in the most insidious situation so far. We also have comments on the composition of the Slovenian Council worldwide as the consultative body of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of the nine members, there are supposed to be three from South America, two from Argentina, and only one from Australia, although the same number of emigrants live on both continents. There have already been a number of reactions in the public to the return of Slovenians to their homeland or repatriation and to the related financial consequences of this law. The Republic of Slovenia must provide free accommodation for so long as it can arrange the necessary documentation and find an adequate employment. During this time, it is also provided with free nutrition and health care. If a repatriated person comes from crisis areas, he shall be granted the necessary clothing and allowance, as provided for by the asylum law. It is essential that initial financial support and social and health security are granted to repatriated persons and their relatives during the first period following their resettlement or until their situation is settled. However, it will be necessary to regulate by means of a sub-legislative act when, in a country where Slovenians live, I state, "there is a serious political or other crisis, not a decision to leave to officials of the foreign ministry." The proposal for a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians outside its borders is certainly welcome, since it deals in an integrated manner with the issue of both foreign and alien residents living around the world. I would suggest that the Commission, which is responsible for this area in the National Assembly, together with all parliamentary parliamentary groups, prepare appropriate amendments for the second reading of this law and send it to the procedure with the Government. In the Socialist Group of Members, we want the law to be adopted by consensus and there will be no vote and political confrontation on such an important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u156	The beginning of the law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders dates back to 1994. Although the law was incorporated into the legislative procedure, there was no political will to adopt it. The current proposal was presented to the public early this October. The law is based on two resolutions, 1996 resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries and 2002 resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. It is important, however, that this is the first roof law for the area of Slovenians in place and around the world. So far, this area has only been partially regulated in individual laws, such as the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. The law was prepared by the Slovenian Office for Relations, both in place and worldwide, within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the so-called SLOMAK, Slovenian Minority Coordination. According to the office, almost half a million Slovenians live outside Slovenia, as has already been said today, of which some 60,000 Slovenian citizens are said to have. Instead, 150,000 Slovenes are supposed to live in the 1960s and 1970s, and they are expected to work abroad for 50,000 Slovenes, both natives and expatriates. [[Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, France and Belgium]] . The essentials of the law. The important thing is that this is the first concrete legal act in this area. It regulates the competences and tasks of the Slovenian authorities with regard to cooperation with Slovenians outside the borders, from cultural to economic cooperation. It defines and specifies the role of the Office, receives an operational role, decides on whom and why funds will be allocated, supervises their use and coordinates ministries operating with minorities. It is true that, on the part of certain organisations, interpersonals and Slovenians outside the borders, it has been proposed that we have a minister without a licence to run this office. In view of the fact that the law is in first reading, I also propose, on behalf of our parliamentary group, that we continue to discuss this proposal, of course, within the scope of the possibilities offered by the current legislation, or within the time frame that the current legislation could allow. Worlds for Slovenians have been established in place and the world for Slovenians around the world. This is a permanent consultative body of the Government, consisting of representatives of state bodies, institutions and political organisations and civil society organisations from the Republic of Slovenia and the place of substitution. Members shall be appointed by the Prime Minister, the Council shall participate in the design, implementation of policies and strategies for the care of Slovenians in place and throughout the world. Here too, it is necessary to consider how this Council for Slovenians should be, in place and around the world, the most effective body and will try to take into account or take into account the proposals of the umbrella organisations of minorities as well as of other organisations outside the borders of our Slovenia. The world should be run by the Prime Minister himself. Economic cooperation is regulated by setting up a special consultative body, a development and business council for Slovenians in place and around the world. The presence of Slovenian capital on the part of our minority living in Italy is very small for foreigners. Here it is stressed that Italy has a strong role in the Slovenian banking area and our banking system there is very small. Another important issue covered by the proposed law is the legal basis for funding, which will be upgraded by a government regulation. Until now, funding was only possible on the basis of legislation that provided for the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which caused problems, as this legislation has often been overly lax and laid down only those rules common to all budgetary users and has taken too little account of the specificity of the financing of this activity. For the time being, there have also not been any follow-up to this proposal in the first reading, where it has been determined how much of the state budget should be allocated to finance this. It might be good to consider this further in view of the proposal, which was specifically given to 0.12 of the State budget. Of course, it is positive that the criteria for granting financial assistance to minority organisations are laid down. It is important that this proposal also brings recognised status and associated rights of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. So far, they've been treated as aliens. Repatriation, as mentioned above, has been arranged. The immigration of Slovenians into Slovenia is organised and financed by the Republic of Slovenia, where in the country where they live, there is a severe political crisis and a different crisis, and if the immigrant Slovenians can contribute to the development and implementation of the Republic of Slovenia. The criteria shall be assessed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Repatriation shall be financed from the budget and other resources. Aid shall be granted for one year and its height shall be comparable to that for refugees, but assistance shall be paid for refugees for three years. If, hypothetically, 20 families or 100 people returned, that would mean 28 million and a half. The 2006 budget provides for only one million and two for the 2007 budget. The reason is that, according to the assessment of the Office of any major immigration is not expected at this time. The question of representation of foreigners and Slovenians around the world in the National Assembly is also raised. We know that the idea of having two representatives in the National Assembly has been presented, which means certain procedures, in particular, according to some experts, a change in the Constitution. The Commission of the National Assembly for Cooperation with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide has adopted a decision proposing that the two representatives of the National Assembly be granted observer status. We believe that proposals need to be seriously examined, especially in terms of the real representation of so many Slovenians living outside the borders of Slovenia. We know that organizations outside our borders are advocating a compromise solution. In our parliamentary group, we will be very active in trying to find a compromise solution that could be feasible even in a somewhat longer period of time if the current legislation did not allow for a short-term solution. The New Slovenia Group will certainly support the bill. As I said, we will actively participate in further consideration and try to achieve maximum acceptance of the proposals proposed by organisations outside the borders of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome to the Secretary of State, the President of the Coordination of SLOMAK, Mr Pavšić. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian People's Party has a positive attitude towards Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia and is constantly working for measures that contribute to the preservation and strengthening of Slovenia abroad. It therefore supports the proposal for the first system law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia outside its borders, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 11 October this year. The proposal started already in the Committee on Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide, in its previous mandate. Among the co-proposers of the first draft law, which due to the disfavor of certain political options, was not adopted on this issue, our member from the Slovenian People's Party was also on the committee at the time. The current ruling coalition has shown the political will to replace the Slovenians and the world for the last time. She therefore wished to highlight the importance of Slovenians living outside its borders for the Slovenian country by means of her proposal. Slovenians in place and worldwide for the Republic of Slovenia are not only important because of their patriotic patriotic sense, but can, in an appropriate relationship with Slovenians in place and around the world, actually contribute to more intensive cooperation between countries in different fields, including economic cooperation. Some relatives are well aware of the legislation of the country in which they live and of the situation and other conditions which are fundamental to fruitful inter-State cooperation. In addition to the importance attached by the Republic of Slovenia to the legal regulation of the problem, it is also important to adopt the appropriate legal basis for the activities already under way. The introductory part of the bill clearly sets out the reasons for the adoption of the law, which I would point out here, because of the lack of a legal basis, mainly the problems of the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia which are competent to carry out the tasks of cooperation with Slovenians in place and around the world. Under-laws defining certain tasks, such as financing, cannot be adopted due to a lack of legal basis. The aim of the bill is, inter alia, to increase transparency and transparency in financing the structures of Slovenians both in place and in the world, and thus to ensure the efficient and optimal use of budgetary resources. The bill is systematic and is defined for all Slovenians living outside their homeland, in order to achieve a fair and equal treatment of Slovenians with different status, Slovenians in place or in a world with or without citizenship and so on. This is also one of the reasons for preparing a broader and more comprehensive bill than the law, as stipulated in Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which only travels to the adoption of the Slovenian law without Slovenian citizenship. The proposal sets out very broad areas for Slovenia's cooperation with Slovenians beyond its borders: culture, preservation of Slovenian language and education, science and higher education, implementation of financial support, economic and regional cooperation, status of Slovenia without Slovenian citizenship and repatriation or return. However, in line with the development of certain issues, sectoral legislation will address a particular area in more detail. Slovenian minority coordination of SLOMAK supported the proposal of the law prior to its intervention in cross-cutting coordination. This confirmed the interest in developing an even more intensive and legally regulated attitude towards Slovenians in neighbouring countries. Some of the solutions that SLOMAK supports have failed in the process of cross-cutting coordination. As President of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians, I will endeavour, in the next phase of the legislative process, to reintroduce those solutions into the draft law, which have been confirmed on the basis of experience as justified. I'd like to point out the following. There is no doubt a solution to the introduction of a minister without a licence for Slovenians in place and around the world, or a solution to be part of the Office's re-establishment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Despite the government's good intentions to achieve greater weight, the current solution has proved to be less effective. Some other proposals by SLOMAK, which are related to the creation of a Council for Slovenians in place and around the world, are also supported, such as a solution to the tax rulings of the Council. Slovenians around the world also represented Slovenian evict organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, such as Slovenia in the world and the World Slovenian Congress, indicating that the needs of Slovenians around the world were actually taken into account. The comparison of the two legislative proposals not adopted by the National Assembly in the previous term with the current proposal shows that the solutions that were most controversial for the adoption of the law by the current position do not contain the current draft law. Part of the previous opposition, or part of the previous coalition, rejected certain solutions to the draft law, such as the right to enter the Republic of Slovenia without an entry visa and the right to an exceptional pension for elderly repertoires, which have contributed significantly to the preservation of Slovenia and the lack of criteria to prove nationality. The current proposal also aligns the European legislation with the acquisition of certain other rights, such as the acquisition of property rights on land and real estate and the right to an advantage in employment. The additional proposals from the individual field managers have also been taken into account. It can therefore be concluded that the solutions for some political options are no longer the reason for not adopting the law in the current proposal. This is an additional argument that the law is finally adopted in the broadest possible and political agreement of all options. The counter argument was also the adoption of the Hungarian status law, which regulated the relations of the Republic of Hungary with its minority in neighbouring countries. Hungary's status law cannot be compared with a Slovenian proposal which does not affect the internal affairs of foreign countries in any provision and thus does not conflict with European law. A comparative review of the arrangements for the relations of certain foreign countries in the European Union, such as Italy, France and Ireland, shows a more intensive and decisive approach by those countries to their relatives around the world. These countries are even more aware of the contribution their fellow citizens can make to the development of the country around the world. In the Slovenian People's Party, we do not believe that there is a need for a public presentation of opinions because a public presentation was made in the previous mandate. The Slovenian People's Party, because of the importance it attaches to the area of Slovenians in place and around the world and because of the above arguments that the area is governed by law, strongly supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr Kramberger. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Unlike my predecessors, I will focus mainly on the things that disturb us in the Slovenian National Party in dealing with legal matter. The law before us could be viewed in two ways. The first aspect is the one that the government had to make, that is, that it created such a law, thus fulfilling constitutional obligations for the care of Slovenians both in place and in the world. It provided a clear and solid legal basis for cooperation with Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that the good part of that law is good and it would be worth supporting if the other part did not appear in the eye of the stabbing part. The purpose of the law, as many predecessors have already said before me, is mainly to regulate the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians in place and around the world, to strengthen national consciousness and national identity, to promote mutual contacts and to strengthen cooperation in areas such as culture, education and education, science, the economy, employment. The Slovenian Act is divided into two groups: Slovenians in place and Slovenians in the world. Distribution of Slovenians according to civil status, both Slovenian nationalities with the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenian nationals with the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. These are all aspects of the law that would be worthy of support. In one point, the law introduces financial and other assistance to Slovenians who wish to repatriate. The matter in itself may not even be so controversial until we look at the financial consequences of the law that we are considering. A new budget item to be filled from public and private sources shall be established for repatriation. It is these private resources that are immediately in sight, and we can rightly ask ourselves what these private resources are, whether these are some of the resources that some political parties in their pre-election campaign have already had the power to use, even if we look at the composition of the world, where they come from and where they come for one member. For example, in the event of the return of hundreds of people, which means about 20 families, the annual assistance of the Republic of Slovenia to these persons amounts to 28 million and a half Slovenian tolars. However, that the government does not mean that it does not take this law as seriously as we have heard here today, but we can compare the financial assistance that refugees in the Republic of Slovenia have. These receive financial assistance from the state budget for three years, the foreigners returning to the Republic of Slovenia for one year. That this lack of seriousness of government is even more visible and even more visible in the eyes. Do you know how much time Slovenian unemployed financial compensation is paid by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the state budget? Six months! Six months! And let someone explain to me this duality of government in this law! On the one hand, monitoring the constitutional requirement that this area be settled, on the other hand, and on the other hand, we do not know who or why or what they deserve such privileges. Such a lack of seriousness in the Slovenian National Party cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u162	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, the rest are present! The bill will be welcomed by our parliamentary group because it considers it a time to consider it and finally to accept it as a comprehensive solution to the relations and cooperation of the home country with its relatives in place and around the world. There is no doubt that we are grateful that this law, before us, has devoted much of its time to the preparation and drafting of this proposal in the Slovenian office around the world. The law is intended to provide, in fact, the declared concern of our country for relatives, given that the practice has often been different and with too many fluctuations and shortcomings depends on the different will and views of each responsible person. In this context, it would indicate that independence will be strengthened in the future and that the competence of the Office for Slovenians will be increased worldwide so that it can carry out its mission and tasks independently of the will of others. In the drafting of the content of the law, the proposal led the proposer to overcome certain requirements in the Treaty on European Community to preserve and respect only linguistic and cultural diversity, which is largely satisfied in the proposal for a law. The law correctly states that Slovenians are an equivalent part of the unified Slovenian nation and that the Republic of Slovenia is the home country of all Slovenians outside its borders and the country of protection of indigenous Slovenian national communities in neighbouring countries. Co-sponsors, content and method of funding to ensure transparency and stability are identified. The status provisions make it possible to distinguish between those who have Slovenian citizenship and those who do not have it. The Repatriation chapter deals in detail with this issue, which may be increasingly important and we think it is right to regulate it. The law will no doubt be binding, it will be implemented by the Office for Slovenians around the world and in place. Since the law sets out a number of tasks and obligations of certain ministries, their functioning and cooperation would be easier to achieve if the Office were to change into a ministry, with the Minister without a licence. The policy of cooperation with Slovenians around the world and in place after the adoption of the law should no longer be left to the personal views or will of individual ministers, who may be more inclined to look at the secretary in the office, regardless of his efforts and efforts to implement the law-specific obligations. In any case, our parliamentary group will support the law with the necessary amendments and additions, with the hope that it will be adopted by the highest level of consent of all parliamentary parties, as it would only maintain the face of our relatives, who are bound by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, everyone in the Chamber of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is welcome. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders. It has been a time for this law, and we regret that so far there has been no real political will for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world to be settled much earlier. Article 5 of the Constitution already stipulates that Slovenia takes care of indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, Slovenian expatriates and promotes their contacts with the country. The second indent of Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: "Slovakia without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia. The type and extent of these rights and benefits shall be laid down by law." But since 1991, when we adopted the Constitution, we have not been able to accept it. In the hundreds and hundreds of laws adopted at that time in this national assembly, there was not enough political will in the past to adopt a law regulating relations with Slovenians outside its borders. These are estimated at about half a million, which has been mentioned here many times. In addition to the Constitution, which speaks of Slovenians in place and around the world, two important resolutions have been adopted so far. This is a resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries, written in 1996, when this resolution was adopted, and the second resolution, on relations with Slovenians around the world, was adopted in 2002. However, it will be necessary to wait until 2006. Thus, many years were delayed, and the Slovenes, both in their place and in the world, could rightly have felt as if they were not part of this nation’s body. Due to this attitude towards the Slovenians in place and around the world, which has been typical of the past period, Slovenia has failed to make use of the human and social capital that is present between Slovenians in place and around the world. In the European Union, the principle is that the regulation of the minority problem of home and eviction falls within the competence of individual countries. There are only directives at EU level that prohibit, for example, racial discrimination. However, there are also resolutions ordering countries to maintain their identity, linguistic diversity and culture, and therefore the sovereign state must go beyond the level set by the various declarations and resolutions of the European Union and regulate this area appropriately. According to SDS estimates, Article 6 is well placed, which speaks of care for foreigners and Slovenians around the world as an essential part of Slovenian foreign policy. The Office and our National Assembly Commission are, however, the fundamental agents of cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians in place and around the world, as referred to in Article 12. It is also good that the law provides for consultative bodies of the government, this is the Council for Slovenians in place. Representatives of national minorities in all four countries where the Slovenian minority exists are also appointed to this Council. The Council for Slovenians around the world is a consultative body with the government, involving representatives of emigrants, natives around the world and Europe. On the other hand, the country of Slovenia can also make a great deal of promise from the development council for economic cooperation with Slovenians around the world, as provided for in Article 44. Many Slovenians around the world have succeeded and are important players in the global economic world. The public institution of RTV Slovenia is given a new character by this law. RTV Slovenia, as an institution of public interest, is obliged to ensure the information of Slovenians in place and around the world about developments in Slovenia. Under this law, it is necessary to ensure free monitoring of the RTV Slovenia satellite programme in countries where this is possible. Therefore, without a subscription or contribution, RTV Slovenia will be able to monitor our natives, expatriates and our representatives of minorities, so it is all the more important that RTV Slovenia re-position and think about its programme. This is to get the right place a quality information programme and cultural and artistic programme, a program with domestic Slovenian production. The rest of the content can be obtained by Slovenians in place and around the world on other channels, and quality content important for national identity and Slovenia at home and around the world can only be offered by national television. According to our assessment, it is good that the law also regulates the status of a Slovenian without citizenship, which can be obtained by a person who is of Slovenian descent and who has not been deprived of his nationality. Such status allows access to libraries, offers more favourable conditions for education, admissions to college and so on. And finally. It is right to arrange repatriation that is the immigration of Slovenians into the country financed and organised by the Republic of Slovenia. This is in those cases where there is a severe crisis or danger in a country where Slovenians live. This offers an opportunity, even though it is not possible to expect this time to be served by the Slovenians around the world. It is also appropriate to have a repatriation status of up to 15 months. The SDS Group supports the law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Friday. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders is a law which cannot be contested at the principal level if we take Article 5 of the Slovenian Constitution as the starting point. However, it is necessary to look at it critically and to ask whether in its proposed solutions it is also appropriate enough and whether it is not really just about regulating relations, which can ultimately be understood as a relief for those living in the Republic of Slovenia, but whether it is also a good enough solution for those living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. I stress, however, that the idea of a single Slovenian cultural space has long been accepted, known and realized. That is why I did not miss the discomfort of some members of Slovenian national communities in Italy, Austria, Hungary and Croatia, who do not want to be named by the term used in the law, is a foreigner. It is also a different name when we are talking about members of the national communities of Italy and Hungary in Slovenia. However, those of Slovenian origin are spoken of as foreigners, especially when we are talking about 1 May 2004 and the European Union, when the concept of a foreigner receives a different connotation than it did in previous situations. Therefore, in the introductory text, I think it is very important to draw attention to the economic interest in learning Slovenian when, to raise national confidence in these parts, where Slovenians live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, it is a very important comparative advantage that they have mastered the language that has become one of the official languages in the European Union. I intend to return to the issue of language, but I would like to draw only one more point from this introductory part. It is also one of the objectives, principles and main solutions: State-owned or national approach, political party, ideological, confessional or daily political approaches to cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians beyond its borders. This is a good thing to hear at the principle level, but it is possible to hear different experiences from the story of Slovenians living in other countries, and it would be good to consider whether it is true that all the provisions relating to the financing of organisations are in the hands of the government. I am talking, of course, about the articles, the implementation of financial support. I refer to Article 47 and to the following articles, where the procedure for the distribution of funds is left to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does so by regulation. This is because the distribution, it says here, takes into account the analyses, assessments, strategy and interests of the Republic of Slovenia, but the second place is the needs, interests, assessments and proposals of Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia. If these are proposals, then the way in which funds are allocated could be arranged differently, since paragraph 53 of this proposal of the law, if read cumulatively, I find some contradictions in it. However, the criteria listed may be highly arbitrary. It seems to me that this, which is linked to the implementation of financial support, needs serious consideration, especially since, by the way, in any of the positions of the groups sent, it has also been heard that all Slovenian entities outside the borders of Slovenia have not been drawn to this proposal for a law. That is why I am joining those who believe that the public presentation of opinions on this proposal would, however, be appropriate, especially if this proposal is in many ways different from that which did not receive support in the previous term. Now I would only touch the previously mentioned problem of language, as I see it in this law. Article 68 states that they can enforce all three categories of Slovenians around the world, "the rights of this law can only be exercised in the Slovenian language". I would like to point out that in Article 37, where the talks on science and higher education are particularly focused on the participation of relatives, i.e. those who may manifest themselves and may be the second or third generation of emigrants who are known to no longer know the Slovenian language to the extent that they can exercise their rights, so they could be involved in the implementation of key tasks in the field of scientific and educational cooperation. My thought goes one more way: it would be nice if, for science, for higher education and for Slovenian, they were always so taken, even as far as we are concerned, I think here, in Slovenia. What's my point? Here I brought three invitations to the theatre performances from Austria's Koroška. And I must say that these are invitations, which are bilingual, in most cases, and that I see there the written names appearing in the written practice, which I advocate to be introduced in the country of Slovenia. It is said that we would have the right to use mowers and hazelnuts, which some consider petty. But this time, when they are fighting for bilingual tables in Koroškem, it is only right that we are aware of the specifics of the Slovenian language in Slovenian school beryl, and that with our strict attitude towards the spelling standards of the Slovenian language, we also give power to the Slovenians in Koroške, Austria, and Italy, who are fighting for the right to have their name written down with Slovenian alphabets, and that we do not have to listen to the opinions of many of our fellows who say they will ensure that the e-mail they send from other countries is such that it is adapted to Slovenian spelling, when they receive an answer from the Republic of Slovenia, and that the specifics of Slovenian alphabets are lost. It's just so much to think about, ordering someone to like Slovenian is impossible. I think that with our example, with our care and encouragement, and in particular with a respectful attitude towards every language environment, we can achieve what cannot be regulated by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable fellow Member, fellow Members, distinguished representative of the government. The Republic of Slovenia laid down in Article 5 of the Constitution that the State provides for indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for Slovenian expatriates and residents, and promotes their contacts with the country and that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia. The type and extent of these rights and benefits are defined by the law that we have on the table today, which is the law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. The state and its authorities are responsible for caring for Slovenians around the world and in place, cooperation with Slovenians and Slovenians around the world is taking place in several areas. The proposal and adoption of the law stems from the fact that, according to some data, even one quarter of the Slovenian people live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law shows a strong intention to help preserve Slovenian identity, language, culture and cultural heritage and to promote cultural growth among Slovenians outside its borders. The present law has several objectives, primarily serving to regulate the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians in place and around the world. It should also help to strengthen national awareness and national identity, foster mutual contacts and strengthen cooperation in areas such as culture, education and education, science, the economy, employment, social activities, regional integration and foreign policy. In addition to the interest in strengthening Slovenian consciousness and identity, the law also emphasises the economic interest in learning Slovenian as one of the official languages of the European Union. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is also high time that we finally, by law or in any other way, give our recognition and thanks to all Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia who are trying to preserve the Slovenia and who have also contributed to the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia after its independence. In my opinion, the proposed text of the law is a good basis for further consideration and I am sure that with possible additions we will adopt a quality law that will regulate, in my view, a very important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Aurelio Yuri. He's not here. There's no Franc Žnidaršič. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. A warm welcome to the representatives of the Office, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members! The proposed law came far too late at the tables of this national assembly and it must be said that any proposal that begins to regulate this area is better than nothing. Thus, this law certainly sets and represents a very big step forward, although today it is heard from the opposition types of a somewhat unconstructive crash into individual articles of the law. Given that this is the first reading, we have one way or another to try to improve it as much as possible. In particular, I would like to stress a few points which, in the broadest sense, point to the sensitivity and importance of this legal substance. I don't think it's ever been sufficiently stressed that in the last 100 years, there have been between 15% and 20% of our people living abroad. That's between 300,000 and 400,000 people, according to some broad explanations, up to half a million. We need to be clear that the diaspora is not something random, but a constant factor that needs to be taken into account and found the right place. It's time that we don't ask the natives what happens to them in 10 years, but we all ask ourselves what we want to happen to our diaspora today. They can't do it on their own. This view must embrace and convince the national mainstream, which means that we ourselves, otherwise such an encouraging concept as the law, will not be feasible. And, of course, this bill will help to a large extent. For centuries, Slovenians have known emigration as the only way to migrate. Therefore, it is time for flows to start turning in a different direction, including because of public policy. I am therefore pleased that the legislative proposal is also starting to regulate this area, and we must be aware that such a movement of people with relatively minimal costs of adaptation also represents the possibility of a rich flow of services of a wide variety of personal qualities and capital. If we place emphasis on globalisation and multiculturalism everywhere, it is all the more important to stress it today in the debate on this law. The times with the protected state border are over, however, that the world becomes one of you, there is no longer a metaphor, and it may well be that in the short term there will be no difference between being Slovenians, being Slovenian under the Ljubljana Castle or being Slovenian in Manhattan. And in such a case, it is necessary to take care of the connection at as many levels as possible so that we do not become non-Slovaks, both abroad and at home. For all things in Slovenia, if we look at in a broader sense as a country, as a nation within the national boundaries, we like to overlook something essential. We have little interest in what our fellow believers expect, what they experience, so we need to listen to them more. We must not forget that because of our fifty years of reality, totalitarianism has also been experienced by Slovenians abroad. The consequences have not yet been resolved. Some institutions that have sunk under the previous system have acted prominently in the ideological key, and the national component has been pushed aside, and perhaps because of that, today's responses from SD types are not acceptable to them if the government decides on the allocation of funds on the basis of the criteria set out in its Act. However, the national component is very important and also because it was absent somewhere. This results in a series of complex relations in Slovenian communities around the world. And these relationships need diagnosis today, as well as rehabilitation. We must not say briefly that we will not deal with old resentments and similar phrases. From this comes the word with great weight, our kinsman has been wronged, and these also bind us. That these words have weight, I can prove with the attitude of the Slovenians around the world, which we record among the people. Who dares to claim that in 15 years of transition in this sense a great step forward has been taken, in terms of mentality. Even where understanding is, it's more like not at the level of emotion. With real needs, from social to economic, the most common reflex is - yes, what do you want again? So we're in a lot of trouble at the beginning. I list these things because it seems to me that only with positive mentality will the law be able to come to life in such a way that it achieves the goals which, however, have been written and prepared and we have it before us today, so that it does not just remain a dead letter on paper without prosperity in real and life interpretation. Today we will take a step forward if we support this bill, we will try to improve it a little further. I'll back him up myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Battelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In principle, I also support the project of adopting a law on the comprehensive regulation of Slovenia's relations with Slovenians in place and with Slovenians around the world. I think it's urgent and good. I also hope that this law will ultimately take account of the subjectivity of Slovenians in place and around the world and that it will establish mechanisms that are effective and thus flexible, because I assure you that the situations experienced by members of minorities or displaced communities are many times extremely sensitive and almost neurological. And so such flexibility is necessary to me. I would like such a law not to come from the state in the sense that it meets the country's own needs, but to satisfy the needs of those people to whom the law is intended. It also seems ridiculous to me to say that in the past, aside from the national connotation, this policy did not have an ideological policy, which is indisputable in my view of things. However, I hope that this will not change in the way that this relationship will move from imposing one ideology into the enforcement of another and that we can be mature enough here to avoid such things. Now I am interested because this seems relevant to me also in the light of certain debates which the Office is sure to know and have triggered recently on the coast, and I would like to get some answers from the government to the following questions. So, earlier it was said that there were 100,000 Slovenians in Italy, and I want to know from the government whether that's true. Of these 100,000, I am interested in how many Slovenians in Italy have Slovenian citizenship - this is certainly information that you cannot hide and that you cannot say that you do not know about it. Then I am interested in how many Slovenians work daily in Italy through all these years - which is also information that can be easily obtained by the Ministry of Labour, these people also enjoy certain protection under an international agreement or protocol with Italy, which is, of course, correct and how many of these have obtained permanent residence in Italy over the years. Given that you have a final word as a government in the end, I hope that by then you can answer that question. This also seems useful to me to say that the atmosphere relaxes a little, especially in the coast, given certain controversy that is constantly occurring and that you certainly know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. I must say, we have met this issue once in the near past. At that time, the law on Slovenians worldwide was not adopted in the National Assembly. Despite the fact that we have in Article 5, I think that Article 5 clearly sets out what human rights are, what are the rights of minorities in Slovenia and what are the rights, that we must also protect the rights of Slovenians in place and of Slovenians in the world. Well, we are today, thank God, in the first reading, and I think we are on this path, for the first time, to adopt a concrete act for this area, a law that will actually start to formally regulate this area. However, I think that this law should be somewhat more ambitious. The fact that, in fact, a quarter of the national body lives outside the borders of their homeland and that in Slovenia there has been some change in the political scene, that at the moment the right political option is in power, which has always looked at the problem of the Slovenians in exile differently than it has been since the war. That's the truth, whether we admit it or not. Because the fact is that, in fact, the communist authorities have created this situation, that there are many people in the world today in a country where, most likely, if conditions were different at home, the Slovenians would not be or at least not in such a large number. Today we can write one or another law, but when I look at the comparative solutions in the introduction of this law, how the countries, which have as much of their population abroad as Slovenia, have given examples for France, where it says that the French living outside France have their representatives in the French Senate, for Italy, where we know that in the Italian Parliament, under the new law, they will elect their representatives to have their Members in the highest authority. Then there is Ireland, where it says that a number of working bodies present for Irish issues around the world are organised within the framework of the Foreign Ministry. Hungary has a special law for this area. Now we will have, but I think that, as I have said before, the ambition of this marriage should be greater. I think we should reach one compromise and also start thinking in Slovenia about providing Slovenians with a place in the highest authority, that is in the Slovenian National Assembly or, if you want, the Slovenian Parliament. Just as the Slovenians have arranged for both national minorities, both Hungarian and Italian, it would be time to arrange this for the Slovenians living around the world. I am aware that in this direction it would be necessary to think about changing the Constitution, because we have the constitution of the National Assembly, but - because it is willful, there is also a way. And if that's what you want, then I think it's necessary to find the opposition consensus and start working on it. Until then, the maximum of this issue needs to be regulated in such a way that Slovenians will have permanent representations in Parliament and within the Slovenian government in place and around the world, as well as in the Slovenian government, and we are very committed to this in Novi Slovenija. The fact and wish of the Slovenians, in particular those living in place, that the status of the secretary for Slovenians around the world should be raised to the level of the minister without a licence or whatever, at the level of the minister, is not something that would be unrealistic if we wanted to. The wish in Novi Slovenija is that this would actually happen. After this government law we have, all options are exhausted. However, the government law is not something that we could not correct properly in this House. By the time of Demos, we had a minister for Slovenians all over the world. So, of course, I am not saying that this area cannot be covered by the Secretary of State, but if we raise the Secretary of State to the level of the Minister, then this is a completely different position. As long as this function is a ministerial function, then the Minister is a member of the government and all the open questions that are not few, if we are to address the issue of repatriation seriously, then it is necessary to resolve it at such a level. Otherwise, there will be something left in the law, a possibility will be given, but for this purpose we will not really need more resources than is now envisaged, for the return of the Slovenians to their homeland will not occur. We all know that it is not so easy to return, that many things must be done to return. And given that we have problems in demographic policy and that, in fact, Slovenia is dealing with this problem and is trying to solve it in some way, it would be right to create, in the first place, the possibility that those who once for economic or political reasons have left our country will now, in some way if they want to, also return. But, of course, they come back, as I have already said, if we can create the right conditions at home. Just like that, inviting them will certainly not be enough, we will have to do much more than that. In an effort to resolve this, such a ministry in this area would be the first and true step in this direction or in the direction of achieving this objective. In Novi Slovenija we are inclined to do so and then in the second reading of this law we will try to cooperate creatively with our proposals. And if the will of both the ruling coalition and the opposition is to do so, I am sure that this law can be improved in many ways until the final adoption of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Branko Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Today it is certainly worth repeating that provision of Article 5 of the Slovenian Constitution, which gives Slovenians the right to enjoy special rights in Slovenia without Slovenian citizenship, and of course stipulates that these rights are determined by law. Interestingly, this provision is not a year old. This provision is as old as the modern Slovenian Constitution. So it's about thirteen years old right now. I therefore ask today all those who have already had a very critical debate, and these thirteen years have been heating chairs in this Chamber, why they have not poured this constitutional provision into life; why they have not passed this constitutional provision into an appropriate law; why they have persistently rejected every step that has gone in this direction, even the very concrete proposals of such laws, which are of political interest, because it was not a political interest. The former LDS governments, for example, had a political interest in priority even to increase the profits of casinos, so they passed a special law on a rapid basis, as if it were a natural disaster. It was about increasing the profits for casinos, but to do something concrete for Slovenians around the world, but it's not. Why? Because they had a status that is still being tried again in this national assembly, those who have become very loud at this moment are still trying to revive because if you step on someone’s tail, they have become a little bit weary. Because they try to revive it with the help of a cultural struggle. What they have seen in the past 50 years as persecution of such and other enemies was once classed, home was internal, it has always had this in common, that it was values, for those common human values, which are otherwise the foundation of European civilization, and they have been persistently persecuted and exterminated along with their class carriers. This too is happening again today in this national assembly. All those who are now very much proposing that these rights be extended - I too am personally for us to understand - but you know, the greatest help would be to those Slovenians in the world today who do not have citizenship and are either alone or their children, those who had to withdraw from the vulgar, wild, mad violence that took place after World War II, unfortunately on Slovenian soils, to stop this tactic. Every meeting of the National Assembly in recent months has been held in order to promote cultural warfare - by the LDS and the SD - let us just say it directly. Every darkness always attracts the Slovenian Church and values don't know what else and then the happy begins [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u177	Mr. Grimes, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u178	I'm going back to the law, Mr. Chairman. Now this law is trying to regulate relations that would allow for the preservation of the vocabulary, the vocabulary as values, the Slovenian people, if you want, which is a large part of these and also for some other reasons, which were more economically conditioned, abroad. I think this marriage is too late. It is far too late because it has been for decades not only lost, but it has taken several decades in a completely wrong direction, until the adoption of the new Slovenian Constitution. At that time, this changed significantly, but then thirteen years were lost, until now, when it did not want to be recognized or dealt with at the legal level of the problem. I would remind you that it is not only those specific laws that have been rejected, which have already been mentioned today, but also proposals, such as when it came to the majority electoral system, that these people should be recognised as electing themselves two representatives - exactly the same proposal that we are offering to the national assembly in another form today. However, it was then accepted by the knife, sent to the Constitutional Court, that it was necessary to change the constitution, but it was not the will, on the contrary. It went, as we all know, in a completely different direction, in a direction that gives more power to political parties and if you also want an ideological fight, and if you want less power to Members as individuals and less weight to the things we discuss. For this is also a consequence of the electoral system, and many times, unfortunately, it forgets. Now the law is in some way a compromise, a response to what Slovenia can do politically and materially at the moment. Personally, I would like this to be even more, and I would like, of course, to achieve the highest possible degree of consensus on this law, because it is also a small concrete step to overcome all that has unnecessarily separated us and hindered us in our common development, in our national development and in our efforts to live the best possible life and to progress together in the best possible way. But you can do something about it, and I've said it before. One concrete act that you can do before this law is finally adopted to stop all the elements of the cultural struggle that you constantly impose in this national assembly. Many of these things have been done in this session as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Rezman. [[He's quitting.]] Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to express once again the satisfaction that we can talk about this law here today. Of course, those who wrote the law are grateful. We have met many times with these and similar questions in the National Assembly. I hope that this law will not bring political divisions back to these premises. Somehow we must be aware of all of us sitting here together, this responsibility that we may step back in our own desires, so that we can all step forward together. Undoubtedly, this law can also be seen in a broader context, even as a step towards a device that has not yet been made in the Slovenian National or National Corps. I think that, as I say, it is the duty of all of us to look at it that way and that we are kind of restraining these feelings. What would a public presentation bring? I'm afraid they're fighting a little. We all know what we have to do, and with those conclusions that we will each contribute or influence through someone else in order to give them such or different starting points at this public presentation, there will be no contribution. An inappropriate term for "substitutes" was mentioned. This is indeed an unfortunate term, but the law uses "Slovakia outside the borders" or "autochtona national community outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia". And those who think the second term was better have no reason not to accept it in the course of the process itself. As for the Minister without a license for these matters, I would like to attract those you think is necessary. It is not necessary for this minister to begin his work already in this mandate, this could be for the next term. Of course, there is also a whole lot of such questions in the Slovenian space that could be asked to this minister. Here I am referring to the problems of our minority in Slovenia, our smaller indigenous, ethnic communities, demographic issues, integration issues, which Slovenian policy will also have to systematically address, and these are issues that this minister could address. So, I am an optimist, and also in the commission, our commission for relations between and across the world, we will pay special attention to this issue, and I want this law adopted in the first months of next year and that what should have happened at least ten years ago in order to succeed in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr Kramberger. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, representatives of the Slovenians in exchange, a very nice greeting! It will not be the first time, so for the second time in this Parliament, we are talking about the Slovenians who live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. There will be no rush when this law is passed, but I agree with those who have found that the proposal has taken a long time to do so. The fact is that we were sent to this law by the Constitution, then in 1996 a resolution, in 2002 a re-resolution, but also in 2004 the law first saw the light of the world in this House. That is why, on this occasion, I really thank all those professional colleagues from both the office and from this house, from Parliament and from other ministries of expertise. I am sure and share my opinion with some of the ministers of this government who, in government coordination, have given a sort of assessment of this law, that it will be one of the most important laws adopted by this government, and that is, in my opinion, true. Colleagues and colleagues, it is not true that this law did not involve both the Slovenians in the place and the Slovenians in the world. I'll get back to this job later. So, SLOMAK participated, coordination of Slovenian minorities in the place, Slovenians participated in the world through civil society and some directly via e-mail, through a meeting that was also organised here in Parliament this year and in the previous years. It is true, however, that this law has rambled into the government procedure and I must stress and confirm this clearly and loudly, in line with the Slovenian minority coordination and the Slovenian office in place and around the world. It is coordinated and once again I stress this to my colleague, i.e. coordinated. It is true that at the office we had a considerable time and with the representatives of the minority on this point, that everything was not and could not be taken into account, but that what we sent to the government procedure this June was coordinated with Slovenian minority coordination. After coming from the sectoral coordination of ministries as a product of the government and falling into Parliament, he, of course, experienced some changes. I did not personally agree with some of these changes, nor did the office, but, of course, the result of this was also, if you want, my resignation, because there is something I cannot do contrary to what I think is good; good for the Slovenes in place and in the world and good for Slovenia. The law is as good as it is. The law, as it is, will, of course, be complementary in the parliamentary procedure. If it is complemented by certain areas that have fallen out in inter-resort and government coordination, this would be the best, best for those for whom the law is written and for the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the law differs mainly in three segments. One of these segments is someone running the office. In order for the Office to be headed by a minister without a licence, it was already recorded in a resolution in 1996. At the time, this resolution was drafted by an ex-wife, now a former secretary in the office, and at the time it was - that is, those who prepared - a carrier from the Liberal Democracy Group. In the law that was drawn up in 2004, we also wrote that the office is headed by a minister without a licence. And what I have previously confirmed twice that the law has also been aligned with Slovenian minority coordination was stated in Article 15 that the Office is headed by a Minister without a licence, in Article 98, in the transitional provisions, it has been stated that this applies to the real next new government. So it went in this direction, however, that things would move on to a higher rank than they have ever been. The fact is that the management of the office from the position it has been assigned to since Demos was no longer in office - because, when Demos was in office, this office was also headed by a minister without a ticket - is difficult and in my opinion it is absolutely necessary to change this position. Change to have the most Slovenians and Slovenians living outside and the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, of course, also in the executive branch of power, someone would always watch over not only the Republic of Slovenia's relations with neighbouring countries, but also the relations of neighbouring countries with the Slovenian minority that lives there. My assessment is that the ratio of neighbouring countries to the Slovenian minority is both in Italy, in Koroška and in Hungary - so if I were to evaluate it from 1 to 10 I would estimate it from 1 so negative; that is, the worst as possible. Look, colleagues and colleagues. There is no justification that five years of adoption of a law in Italy, the so-called protection law, does not enter into force or that the position of the Slovenian minority in this part has deteriorated in both material and of course in institutional and of course in all other areas. It is not acceptable that for more than 28 years what is recorded in Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty is not realized; what is also recorded in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, etc., in relation to topography. Of course, it is unacceptable that the 1992 Interstate Agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia is not being implemented reciprocally, as it has been written. Regrettably, the Republic of Hungary also does not carry out those basic tasks that, like, should be referred to as a joint commission, etc., let alone everything else. Therefore, because of my failure to implement the policy of protection in the previous term as President of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, and even until now, when I was the Secretary of State in this area for Slovenians in place and around the world, I have very clearly and firmly warned about such foreign policy in the previous mandate and, of course, now that these things need to be brought to the point of starting to be resolved, not just at the verbal level. One of the co-creatives of this minority law, he wrote in coordination like this, he viewed as a kind of political assessment of the law on relations with Slovenians outside its borders. This assessment came after the law returned from government coordination to the parliamentary procedure. In principle, the Republic of Slovenia agrees and advocates the rights of the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries, seeks to implement international treaties, supports the subjectivity and autonomy of the Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries and so on. However, these principles must not interfere with friendly relations with neighbouring countries. Therefore, the representative of the Slovenian Office in place and worldwide cannot be a member of the government, since the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia would be constantly burdened by non-compliance with the protection law in Italy, by failing to comply with Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, by failing to comply with the Slovenian-Hungarian Agreement and so on. The Office should take care of the distribution of support provided by the Republic of Slovenia to the cultural activities of Slovenians outside the Republic of Slovenia. In short, of course, I agree with such an assessment and I think it must be exceeded. Members and Members of Parliament are the ones who adopt the law or not, as well as the amendments, and I believe that there will be positive amendments and amendments to the law in this direction. Just a sentence or two more about funding. I'd like to say the following. Colleagues and colleagues, there was anarchy in this area, a perfect anarchy! This was demonstrated by both the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, budgetary control. Both demanded that order be made in this area. This order was introduced last year, and even with the invitation to tender this year, I am sure it will continue. The Government's Law Service has made it clear that it is not possible to adopt any rules on the financing system and to regulate financing because there is no statutory law; therefore, there is no legal basis. And since this was not the case, colleagues and colleagues, it was also possible to use and use these funds for improper purposes from the funding anarchy that followed some sets. In December 2002, Mr Bernard Sadovnik spent more than 6,000 euros on travel expenses without evidence and evidence. This same Mr Bernard Sadovnik took a loan in 2001 from the funds that are for the preservation of Slovenian culture, language and identity, amounting to 100,000 Austrian shillings, with a return period of 25 months, without interest. She found that, thank God, control of the office for Slovenians in place and around the world when she went to review these matters. Therefore, some of the findings from some parties flying today regarding funding are not accurate and do not know the specific data. I've made this public and clear now. By means of an adopted law and a government regulation or any other, if the office is headed by a minister without a licence, this will also be prevented. However, as regards the financing of civil society, we have also taken a major step forward, as from now on funding will follow through on the basis of programmes and work. No one will remove anything, those who will not work in the interest of preserving the Slovenian language, Slovenian culture and Slovenian identity will be removed. Those who have also financed their private projects and their honorable consular tasks for some foreign countries in our institution will be abolished through this money. Colleagues and colleagues! I call on you to adopt the law to support it and to replace and supplement those little things that have fallen out of government coordination with amendments. I will be very happy to support this bill myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Tarchoon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. So a lot of points have been given to me by my colleague Pukšič now with a debate, I must say that. First of all, I would say, Mr President of the Slovenian Parliament, that I hope that your promise made to foreigners or Slovenian minorities will come true when you say that it is impossible to adopt a law that is not in line with the Slovenian minority. So much for the point. Now, I have heard some concerns, specifically from my colleague Kramberger, also about the Institute for Public Presentation of Opinions, which we have predicted we will propose. This initiative is based on the conclusion that the law has not been sufficiently coordinated and coordinated with the Slovenian minority or with Slovenians around the world. My colleague Puksic said that this was coordinated and that only some minor corrections were needed. At the outset, I said that I expect such important matter to be, because it is written in the law that we will have a state-level attitude towards this matter, also adopted by state-owned, that is to say with some consensus of political parties in this House. And here I say that if there is no radical change, it will not count on this consensus. And it will be the law of the ruling coalition that will be in force as long as there will be a ruling coalition that will be replaced sooner or later. And if you want to listen to yourself, then just listen to yourself. I usually listen to you too, but I also listened to the foreigners and the Slovenes around the world and they told me that this is not harmonised, that in fact there were only some beautiful corrections, and if you have a good purpose, allow the public to present opinions that the entire Slovenian public here before Parliament will hear the foreigners and Slovenes around the world, what they think about this law and whether it is harmonised. Primorski novice, 14.10., president of SLOMAK, coordination of Slovenian coordination, which covers about 90%, if not more, of the organisation of Slovenians in substitution, says in response: "Slovenian minority coordination has already made a number of proposals, not just a bunch of proposals, we have formed even our proposal for legislation, we have given it to the Slovenians in the world, but it has not been accepted. However, when we read the current bill, we have found that the government has taken very little account of the provisions covered by our draft. What does that mean? That means they don't take enough account of us in key moments." And one of the main comments to this law is that the minority or organisation of Slovenians outside Slovenia are not an entity, are not a partner. They're not proposing anything, they're not participating anywhere, except in the councils, where the sole right of appointment is vested in the Prime Minister and, of course, coordination with them. Here is the question, it is said, that the Prime Minister will name the one who will "belong" to him and he will say that this is harmonised and then this will be it. This is not just this fuse, it has even another guardian of marriage, which, Mr Pukšič, I ask you to explain it to me. Please, say, in the foreign world. I believe that it is not good for the foreigners to accept each other, but we know that many times, as we do, that they have their own organisation, that we have it, but it is our national task to find one solution that will be consistent and that will ensure independent influence and cooperation with foreigners and Slovenians around the world, regardless of the ruling coalition, if we want it to hold it for some time. And respected colleague Pukšič, you have written or government that in the world for Slovenians in place are four representatives of Slovenians from the autonomous country of Furlania-Julia, four representatives of foreigners from Koroška and two from the country of Austria Stajerska. So if they keep those numbers that were mentioned today, it's for one quarter of the Slovenian body, not to count, compared to three quarters, we have a ratio of 6 to 4 in favour of those that are smaller. So this is some kind of inconsistence that no common sense can understand. You must make some representation that will be representative. If a minority is a partner - and you are all saying that you will take it into account - why not at least give proposing options to a minority or organizations of the Slovenian minority, which would then be accepted by the Prime Minister or not. And if you ask for comments made by the foreigners, they have proposed even more, indeed they have proposed two laws, especially for foreigners, especially for Slovenes around the world, which is also controversial in terms of rationality, they have proposed that it should not be a world but a strategic world where the actual partnership between the Slovenian country and the foreigners would be to directly propose their representatives to this strategic council. I have proposed one intermediate stage that at least the proposal goes into the hands of Slovenian organisations in place, but not that it depends solely on the arbitration of each Prime Minister. That'll come back to him, or he'll come back to the government like a boomerang. So if we were to dissect law by element, we would see that these inconsistencies, these irregularities, this non-state approach, are one big sea. Therefore, if you promise to be partners and to cooperate, then you need to support a public presentation of opinions, then you need to listen to their voice and then you need to include elements of their codecision if the minority is a partner. This is the only way we will come to a satisfactory solution and because of the Slovenians, who are our fellow foreigners and because of our Parliament, even because of me, if you want to, as one who looks with another's eyes, as you see, and I don't care what happens in this area. There's something else I'd like to mention. Slovenians in Italy have a roof law that is not properly implemented. We are pleased that instruments that leave the local authorities to enforce this law and in some critical moments such as Trieste do not, for example, come to the realization of this law. And we can rightly be dissatisfied. But now at the country level - we need to take into account the role the country has in them, because it also has a legislative possibility, these are countries that are about the size of more or less than Slovenia can, and our neighbour is with a slight derogation - they also adopt a special law for the Slovenian minority. In this country's world, there are 5 country advisors of Slovenian nationality. And roof organizations got this law and created it in Italy, created it at the country level. They asked them what your concern for the Slovenians is all over the world? Just to show off how well things are arranged for minorities in our country and how the neighbouring country in Italy has taken them into account and attracts them to co-lock, and we, who care so much, have not even called them to co-decision. According to my information, good organisations will even be introduced into the law at the level of the country of Furlania-Julia. They don't even take them into account in our country. It must be said that the law has a lot of principled views. One of these is also, say, RTV programs. We have a special law. I had already warned that only by law can it be impossible to reach the Slovenians in place of Slovenian programmes. It's just a written word. No one deals with converters who are in their territory, no one has dealt with the fact that RTV will require a special payment for the content they have and so on. That is why today we have a law that is much more rigorous for this area than this roof law, and we still do not see the Slovenian programme. Writer - something in the law to be written, and to shop, how we don't know what we did, it doesn't help anything. A consistent law must be made. Today, Slovenians and Slovenians have been alerted to three things worldwide, and I have already mentioned them to a greater extent. One is their subjectivity and their role in the marriage. They have coordination, on-board organisations that are recognised, unless funding is done as was done in the past year, when they were eliminated, when a scandal arose, when they received less funds than before, when they are made aware of what they are using for travel costs - please, I allow the possibility of any abuse - but it would also be possible for any former secretary of state to report on how the mayor and the secretary of state is and where he is sometimes at work and so on. There's a room for speculation, I wouldn't go into it. But as for this funding, we know it wasn't satisfactory, we know it was full of controversy, we know they're unhappy with it. And when we wanted to fix this year's budget, you've all talked, and for an hour we've found that you're not reading correctly, that you're not reading or reading the law because you really had an index of 19% for Slovenians around the world, but this index was 19% mainly for bureaucracy in Ljubljana and for them. And that was accepted. If we do so then we can also adopt such a law. But such a law will not be a state law that has a consensus, which is necessary in this area for some state or state policy. One thing I said, is subjectivity, the other is the issue of the worlds themselves, I have already said something about it in appointment and so on, which would be worth considering - these are the comments of mainly foreign organisations - and the third is, of course, the role of the office. I was informed, once a minister without a license: agree on one minister without a license, as some countries already have, or put that office back under the foreign ministry, because as it is now, it is not possible. That this should not be necessary, although on the other hand we have a signed coalition treaty which gives an important place to the foreigners and also to the adoption of this law at the end of the day. A special story is also the repatriation and establishment of a home for immigration. Look, I don't think our cousins live abroad in situations like this, so we should use the measures that apply to the fighting situation after the "slap" wave of refugees into one country because of the situation. This is, after all, a little timid to them, it is necessary to invent some European comparable, modern categories of assistance, so that they can return home, and that they will be able to enjoy their prosperity here, if they so desire, but not to barter with these categories, such as a home of immigration, not to say refugee camps, which is, after all, underestimation, as I said. As far as the media is concerned, I do not know why this aid option is mentioned in the law only by the print media. In the modern world, when there are different forms of communication and media communication and transport, it is necessary that other forms of media space be supported, including in the area of financial assistance, not just some organisation of the world or any other body of the foreign organisation and organization of Slovenians around the world. I expect that, however, there will be a calm view of the law in the future. We have a new secretary of state, and I wish him plenty of success. I hope that in the end the light of the world will see an improved, quality, modern law, which will ultimately also be the fruit of one of the satisfactions of the Slovenians, to whom this law is intended and also of consensus in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Kramberger came forward for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to object to my colleague Tarchoon in the part where he wondered about the purpose of the public presentation. I have earlier in my debate, I hope to make it clear that after perhaps 10 years since this law should have been passed, I do not know, we see no point in having to make public representations on this issue now. Our Commission has also devoted a great deal of time this year to coordinating these issues and also to gathering opinions. The Bureau has also contributed greatly to this. This law was also created in agreement, as colleague Pukšič said earlier, with the coordination of SLOMAK and other civil organisations representing Slovenians around the world. Now, colleagues and colleagues, we have every opportunity in this parliamentary procedure to upgrade this law and give it the image we want. When the time is right, our Commission, as an interested working body, will hold a broad debate and invite representatives of both Slomak and representatives of civil organisations. And I think then a colleague of Kucler's, who's probably going to get this as a working mother, is going to pay special attention to this. And by calling for a public presentation of opinions, I see only as a delay. We all know what we must do, and together with a minority as an entity of international law, and the country of Slovenia is an entity on this issue, we must do what we should have done long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u188	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! If this debate is heard by a ignorant listener who has not lived in Slovenia for a long time, it would probably appear to him or him that it is only this coalition and Mr Pukšič who has discovered the foreigners and those who have discovered the Slovenians who live around the world. I would only remind myself that certain things have happened even in these fifteen years, and many things have happened even 15 years ago, both in connection with Slovenians around the world and in connection with the urban structures. For example, I will remind you of an issue that at least those who have been following the developments that have taken place regularly in Kobarid in recent years, this is a meeting of culturers, economists, schoolchildren, priests, politicians from both sides of the border, and this meeting has already seen more than 30 editions. On our side it is prepared by three mayors, but first one, on the other side comes people regardless of political and visual beliefs. What particular bullying and cultural fighting, as suggested at least in the case of the participation of foreigners from Venice and Onejec, as they say from Tolminska, is not. Those who do not know that certain documents have already been - say, Mr Grims - I answer that the National Assembly, in cooperation with virtually all Slovenian representative organisations in place in all countries, has been preparing a resolution for more than a year and has also adopted it in 1996. This committee was then led by a later consul in Trieste, Mrs Jadranka Šturm, and made sure that no organisation was excluded and that the text was finally acceptable to all the organisations in place, and if I recall correctly, because I was then the President of the National Assembly, including all the parliamentary groups in this National Assembly. Why am I telling this story? Since this is a model of how these things can be solved, it was also discussed by Comrade Terchon. That things were going on, whether it was marriage or not, I'm going to tell you in one piece, like the Ministry of Culture, which I ran from 1996 to 2000. We then continued and cleared out specific calls for these segments. Representatives of foreigners also participated in the commissions, the applications were made public, the call was transparent, the funds increased, there was no greater dissatisfaction. The Court of Auditors has marked all the years in a row the Ministry of Culture's operations as positive, which was very rare at the time, and I hear that today, if anyone thinks that order has only been made by him. We also appointed, regardless of the law, people to different commissions, boards of directors, cultural councils, the Prešeren Fund's board of directors and so on from different sides of the border. An open policy for foreigners can also be guided by a resolution, and it would certainly be easier to guide it if it were. But if, I'm going to say, the politicians do this thing responsible, they might be able to do a lot of things without the law. Other things have happened. In the Saturday annex, you could read about the situation in Italy. The subjective assessment of individuals on the other side of the border and representatives of foreign organisations is that Slovenian policy has contributed greatly to the collapse of the financial and economic network. They especially mention the role of the Slovenian right. That is also the question. These are realities that happen with or without the law. It is good to know that cultural warfare and other fights, I have no problem with these kinds of discussions, but they run, regardless of who and when they occupy a position. But let's get back to the law. Since I have known Mr Pukšič for a long time, I must take his word that this is a good marriage. I note, however, that it certainly cannot be better if he has participated in its work, and I also understand all those who say he is inadequate because he is poorly solving certain problems. This is what Mr Terchoon has been talking about, which is really touching in the end. In my opinion it is not, I will say, the central question is what is the name of the official who leads or coordinates politics to the suburbs and people living in remote countries. He could be a secretary without a license. He could be a director. He could be a secretary of state. As you will look through history, you will see that the people concerned have been differently pleased with the people who have done so. Above all, it was important that these people were honest and open, able to account for their decisions. If the coalition today is to appoint a minister without a ticket, it has an ideal opportunity. Instead of Mr Damjan, let's say he appoints Mr Pelikan to be Minister without a ticket. The government law makes it possible. If that's the key question for you, I'll say. I guess not. Let us return to the importance of leading an open policy towards these organisations, regardless of the world view. And I understand and encourage you to be a little reserved for the spiritual father of this document, because, finally, see, section 31 of the Act speaks of the Republic of Slovenia supporting the press, representative, to inform the Slovenians who live in all parts of the world. That she'd give money to that newspaper that was represented. In the previous year's invitation to tender, Mr Pukšič won a newspaper or newspaper house, which is no one in place, even less in Australia, Argentina, Canada, etc., he does not know. Where is this transparency now, and where is this respect for the provisions proposed by the law itself? It's not like that. It is, I will say, some sacred forgiveness and perhaps even worse, the will to be able to regulate everything with political power, without respecting the conditions that are different between the Slovenians in Austria, between the Slovenians in Italy, between the Slovenians in Croatia, not to talk about Gradiscan and even more, about those who are scattered on all continents. It is therefore worth supporting this public presentation of opinions and putting up with another month to make better decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Pukšič made contact with the replica. Procedurally, Mr. Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u190	Mr President, I am surprised that you did not warn Mr Školč about the low-level attacks on Mr Puksic. You may not have listened carefully, but with very perfidious methods, he was very much, in my opinion, very rudely trying to humiliate him. He wanted to question his intellectual abilities in some way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u191	Mr Jerovšek, what is your procedural proposal? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u192	Holy forgiveness and so on, he wanted to offend. [[...]] I am disappointed by this behavior and I want you to harden my colleague Školč, because here the representatives of the Slovenian minority, the roof organizations listen and in fact do not seem to be excluded in such a way, stigmatises the Member who has focused all his energy on this, for a certain period of time, for the worldwide boom of the replacement, the Slovenians in the place and in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Puksich, you applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to say two things to Mr. Skull. First of all, I haven't discovered the Slovenians in the place and in the world, but I have discovered and done what his Liberal Democracy has not done in power for 12 years. And the second message I'm sending him, Mr. Skolcz, is not worthy of being replicated to him by the low-level attacks he's made about me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. The Act on relations with Slovenians around the world and on substitution is the duty of this State Parliament from the time that this duty was clearly enshrined in Article 5 of the Slovenian Constitution. Here in Article 5, the founders of the Slovenian Constitution wrote, "Slovakia without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits in Slovenia". The protection and scope of these rights and benefits shall be laid down by law. The founders of the Slovenian Constitution were aware of the future and also of the past, that it is important that we take care of every drop of Slovenian blood, that we care for all those who still feel the roots of Slovenia in their families, in our identity and that we maintain consciousness, national pride and Slovenian identity. Sorry, that didn't happen. Regrettably, the policy of political division was still largely at work. And there has not been an open policy at work, as we have heard correctly from my predecessor, but should be at work in this area. And in such a situation, the Slovenians, both in their place and in the world, would say that they cooperated constructively with the queen and did a great deal in the time of Slovenian independence for the implementation and international recognition of the Slovenian state. And, unfortunately, after that time, we did not take advantage of such a law of this boiling, stuttering Slovenian national pride in our place and in the world. That's why I think there's something already missing. Now is the time for us to make a meaningful definition of this law, which, in my opinion, is well written, which, in my opinion, covered the overall issue of the Slovenians. As a result, I also expect to be accepted by acclamation and I am disappointed by such critical or sometimes low-level approaches to solving the problem or dictatorship of this law. From this place I would like to thank the two great Slovenians from the interior, who have contributed greatly to the implementation of the Slovenians and the Slovenians at the borders of our country and who, this year, one has stopped, the other has ended the management of the roof organisations in Austria or Italy. This is Jozet Wakounig, President of the National Council of the Korean Slovenians. I thank him for his outstanding national patriotism, for his strong Slovenia and for his upright Slovenia, that he also rejected the notion that in Koroška Slovenec they can also exist as a roofing sight or that Slovenian language can only be folklore characteristic or some decoration. The second is Sergij Pahor, President of the Council of Slovenian Organizations, who, after 9 years this year, hands over the baton or the presidency to his successor. Among other things, the spiritual father met at Draga, in the municipalities. I thank these two politicians, like all other politicians and presidents of umbrella organisations, for their work so far. They worked during the period or their organization, especially the two presidents, under conditions where their mother was often a stepmother to their organizations. These were extremely difficult times when the burden of ideological hatred and cultural struggle, as has already been mentioned here, was being broken in their organizations. Unfortunately, I agree that some of this approach to cultural warfare cannot be rid of even in this national assembly. I wish or actually expect these two great leaders of the Slovenians to receive the state decorations awarded by the President of the State. This is my proposal to the President of the State. If I go forward and go back to my marriage. I think that the law has quite comprehensively tackled the overall problems and I am quite restrained from the inappropriate characteristics of the articles that talk about repatriation and everything that is said about repatriation here. I am proud to have introduced in the resolution on foreign policy the first one by my proposal or by introducing that Slovenia is obliged to take care of and assist in repatriation and I cannot agree with some of the almost offensive characteristics that have been regulated in this law, because unfortunately, Slovenians are not very effective in this area. If we look back on the Croats, Jews or others, Hungarians, you will see that these matters are much better arranged. I am sure that our lawmakers have also followed these solutions, which are effective. Therefore, do not say that this is now offensive to the returning Slovenians. I can really agree that Slovenians may be something special, but I can't rule out that in the country where they live, war situations or emergency situations can also happen. We know the Argentine break at that time. If we had a solid policy, including these institutions of repatriation, I think we'd get more Slovenians back and more of them back. We need citizens of Slovenian blood with diplomas, with knowledge, with mentality. There was such a government at the time that there was no interest in it, and that did not happen either. And once again, to accompany this law with the desire to perhaps complement it, to perfect it, I would really like to see the policy of exclusion outside the borders of the world and within here once and for all. Here in this law we must especially be aware that we all come from the same roots and that the world is our duty to preserve Slovenian identity and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Today is December 20th 2005, and we hear for the second time in this National Assembly that we are nothing in the year. This morning, when appointing a Minister without a licence, the candidate, it was said that we were not aware of the need to develop, nor of the globalisation processes, nor of the economic necessity, but today, in the debate on this proposal, we are faced with ideas that nothing has been done in this area in the field of Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Nobody cared about them, there were no calls, there was no television, there was no language protection, there was no resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities, as there were no regional laws dealing with this issue. This is, of course, an inappropriate approach, and I believe that even more so that the approach adopted by this law will not create better conditions. Let's stop at the repatriation chapter. Who will be able to move to the country whose organisation and funding will be taken over by the Republic of Slovenia? Of course, those who live in countries where there is a severe political and different crisis, as well as Slovenians and Slovenes, who can contribute to the development and implementation of the Republic of Slovenia. What about the others? Which one? Do we have only those who have an interest, namely, those who are better than those who are in the first and second classes? How will these people prove Article 63 how will these people prove that they will be granted the status of Slovenian without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia? Applicants will have to prove that they know Slovenian, proof of membership and activities in Slovenian organisations. Which ones? Written evidence of his ties with the Republic of Slovenia. Or by e-mail, with the files, with the airline tickets? And a written declaration that they do not belong to societies, political parties and other organisations which oppose the international, constitutional and legal rights of Slovenians in their place. So we're already meeting up with the selection. Since I'm running out of time, I'm gonna take a quick walk through other proposals. It is not true that representatives of foreign organisations agreed to the proposal for a law. It's just not true. They objected to him until the last, submitted their comments, were not heard. That's right. Maybe they'll be next. After all, Mr Pukšič, you yourself said that you had left because of changes in the law. This position of office, as requested by Prime Minister Janez Janša, has unfortunately experienced too much turbulence. First he changed, came under the auspices of the Prime Minister himself from the Foreign Ministry, to see how his importance will now be increased. He didn't. On the contrary, he's shrinking. Not only was your resignation not appointed for four months, not only did it work without a chairman from July to December, but the foreigners themselves had estimates that there had been no improvement. Then the world for the Slovenes in exchange. Comrade Terchon has properly divided it into how the world will be inoperable. The Council, which is to meet once a year according to the key of appointment, which is very strange and inappropriate, will not be effective either. The composition of the world is nicely said to be unusual. Applicants are deliberately overlooking the actual reality of the organisation of the foreigners in the four neighbouring countries. Come on, if I skip real fast. The rights and benefits of the status of Slovenia without citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia and the entire chapter of repatriation are questionable. The rights and benefits resulting from the proposal for a law are disputed by the equalisation of the status with the rights and obligations of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that the Constitution clearly states in Article 50 that Slovenians without citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits whose nature and scope are defined by law. However, special rights and benefits are probably not meant to favour the category of Slovenians against Slovenian citizens. And there is a problem and a conflict with existing legislation. Now I don't have to exactly share this issue. Today it has been repeatedly heard what would have happened if the Minister without a ticket, Mr Pelikan, had been able to occupy, as the previous interlocutor said, the city of Mr Damjan. What if Mr Damjan took the place of a gentleman, for example, a fictitious minister without a license, which was also discussed in the state council, what would happen? Watch what happens in the Repatriation section. These citizens and citizens can get free health insurance, come to that house for immigrants who would be someone - how was it said? - camp, I think ghetto, but they can get some specific ratings. It's okay. After all, many countries have done so, the Berluscones have done so, he has also done, I think, the late President Tudjman, that the people who have dispersed around the world have tried to return and have granted some privileges. But these categories or ways of how - I can't say privilege, benefit or some advantage - how these advantages are achieved are controversial. And if Damian, who is angry that people or children who are driven by parents with a Mercedes come to kindergarten, then what would he say to such criteria, where it is not determined, who, why and how he can participate in certain benefits that this law brings. In addition, I hope that today something has been hinted at in terms of how repatriation will repair the demographic picture of the Slovenians. I don't think one of the publishers really meant it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Pukšič made contact with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u200	Ms Shirce's statement was incorrect that the Bureau was not led by the chairman. That's not true. I served as Secretary of State until 30 November this year, and on 1 December, the new Secretary of State took office. So the Bureau wasn't even a minute away from the chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Friday has the floor. There are no replicas on the replica, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much. As mentioned several times in today’s debate, this law comes with great delay and very late. Apparently it was necessary to replace the government in the meantime to get this law on the table. In doing so, we must welcome all the efforts of the new government and also colleague Puksic to get this bill on the table. Article 5 of the Slovenian Constitution has been mentioned several times on this site and the fact is that Slovenia is a constitutional category and the position of Slovenians outside the borders of Slovenia. It is interesting, however, that in these 12, 13 years, that all attempts were doomed to failure, we know that with the legal initiatives of Dr. Jože Pučnik, Dr. Janez Podobnik, he was among the first to submit such a law, Ivo Hvalica, and he tried Dr. Dular and could still list. I would say that this law is also important because Slovenians living outside our borders would not get the feeling that Slovenian countries are on the road, as if they are a burden when the state has to finance their sports, cultural, economic and other activities from the budget. In a way, these people could also see through this law that Slovenia has serious intentions and that they can be to our joy and pride. In the past, it has been said that minorities are a bridge among nations. I'm getting a little nervous about this syntagma, because after all, there are bridge walkers, and if someone walks on you, of course, it's not pleasant, so I'd rather say that Slovenians outside the border of Slovenia are a noble bond with the country of origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grimes earlier said that some 13 years had been heating this hall and that they had persistently rejected all the laws that had been proposed. I am a Member of the ninth year, a third term as a member of the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, since its establishment in 1997, and I say that this is not true. The Commission has worked with consensus so far. In 1996 and 2002, both resolutions were adopted by consensus, the first resolution on Slovenians beyond the borders of the Republic of Slovenia and then the resolution on Slovenians around the world. As has been said many times today, 28 different laws have been adopted to deal with this issue or touch on this important area of the Constitution. It is true, however, that just before the elections last year, opposition parliamentary law was not passed on this subject because the government had a lot of comments. However, the government has promised, as does the government today, that when the law is being sent in the procedure to prepare a comprehensive solution, it has unfortunately taken place earlier in the October national elections and that the new government has now come with this law. Comrade Grimes also invited us today to stop the cultural struggle. I don't know who he was arguing with in this national council. I feel like if he doesn't have a opponent, he just makes it up. This law, or this area governed by this law, is an ideal opportunity for politicization, and we have deliberately avoided it. If you have listened, I have explicitly supported the law on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, but of course I have also had some concerns and comments and I have told them what is most normal in the parliamentary debate and therefore nothing special. In all these years, the Group of Social Democrats has taken care of the state principle on this issue, and we have not deliberately politicised this area. I don't know why so much talk is being said today and the syntagma of the "cultural fight" is repeating from one and the other mouths of the middle of this national assembly. Once again, I would like to say that we will also support this law today, when it is under general consideration, that it will also be given a green light in our votes to continue this process. However, we will certainly make our comments in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr Gulic has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Tank, time's up. A representative of the government also has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Pelican. Yes, Mr. Gulic, are you awake? If you'll excuse me, Mr. Pelican, Mr. Gulic will speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u206	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I didn't hear you. I must say that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be supported by the law because, and to me personally, it seems good that the law goes into procedure, that the subject being dealt with is being discussed, that it is being considered, that it is complemented, that opinions are being broken, even in such a law which speaks of a significant part of the Slovenian population living outside the borders of Slovenia. Now I'm not just thinking about the Slovenians. I'm going to use that expression for a stranger, because I think it's quite appropriate, Slovenian, it's one word. He's also talking about the locals, he's talking about the expatriates, and he's talking about everyone who somehow feels they're Slovenian. However, there are many problems that arise when reading this relatively large law. Not all of them today, but there are some things that I think are important, perhaps even as answers to everything that has been said here this afternoon or now toward evening. In view of the fact that Slovenia, as a country, did not worry that the law had not been adopted. This is in some ways true, but it is also true that Slovenia has taken care of Slovenians all the time outside its borders in one way or another. There was no law. Now we have it in some form before us, and it is up to us, however, to bring it into such an image, that we will have some agreement here within Parliament, at least in part, of harmonisation, and in particular that those concerned by this law will be satisfied. Apparently, so far they haven't been much. And also to Mr Pukšič, who has been trying for a bad year to bring things together in order to put them in a certain order, this has failed. I do not think now that this is a matter of his ability or incompetence, but, above all, that even within those who have decided at that time, there was not sufficient consensus on how such matters are being resolved. It might be better for this office to return to the Ministry of Foreign Policy and live its life there in a constructive and functioning manner. But there is one thing that bothers me in some way, and I sometimes say something on our committee. It is this will and desire to maintain the vocabulary. Here we probably have very different views, but now I don't mean inside the customers, but the Slovenians who live here in their homeland, those who live in Austria or Italy, and those who live across the ocean, or those who live in Germany, Denmark and wherever the Slovenians are. The preservation of Slovenia must not be the preservation of any dialectological phenomenon or historical phenomenon, as we usually imagine, something that is no longer and which is also the result of a number of disappointments, which have been repatriated. In fact, Slovenia is definitely going its own way and also the countries in which Slovenians live are going their own way. Thus it is not about maintaining some static, diahronic position of Slovenian culture, Slovenian being and cereals, but it is something that is involved in time and is evolving. Those of you who have walked the world know that these are major problems that this law does not even mention and ignore. These are matters that will have to be taken into account during the first and second readings, and I am also in favour of opening a broader and public debate on this. Despite the fact that this has ever been done, time and circumstances are now different. The situation in Austria, Italy, of course, would have changed, but also in the world. And we often forget about those Slovenians who are not in some way organized in these societies, we forget about countries where Slovenians are very individual and are in some way bound to their homeland, so it is their will to look for us. Therefore, let us also say something so outdated in this law that only printed media or their press is supported. Things have been going on since 1984, we've had computers, there's been Internet, websites and so on since 1987. It's all alive, and this law, which is supposed to be modern and acceptable to everyone, including those of the fourth and fifth generations, and it doesn't see it in any way, it doesn't want you to see it, but it does live in the conviction of some folklore who stays somewhere for the craftsmen. These are things that I think are worth paying attention to. I'm also worried about this proof of Slovenia when I'm being repatriated. I don't know exactly how much purity it's going to take to deal with those of the mixed laws, maybe even some mulattos or creoles and so on, because the Slovenians just went around the world. These aspects are of interest to me as to whether it will be enough for a person to feel Slovenian if he is there from the fifth generation, and he is interested in it, looking for his roots, and in fact he would like to find his new world, a new life. All of this will have to be taken into account, understood, and, of course, if we are so very principled, even accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Pelican, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. As a representative of the Government, as Head of the Office, I thank all Members and Members for your views. I have listened carefully to your comments, both those who have been favored, laudable and those who have pointed out certain open matters in this text of the law. This interest of yours somehow confirms the interest of the National Assembly in this concern for the Slovenes in place and around the world. I must say, however, that the question of Ambassador Battelli has put me in a bad spot. I understand his concern because I realize that minorities are always very vulnerable. Even the best laws usually fail to meet the needs of minorities. I can repeat in response to Mr Battelli what I said in the opening presentation, that he lives around 68 000 Slovenian citizens worldwide and that the estimates of how many members of the Slovenian national community are in Italy, in Furlania Julianjska Krajina, are very different. They're moving out of 70, 80, 85 thousand, 90 thousand, 100 thousand. I think these are different factors that affect this. It is precisely because of the vulnerability of minority communities that I wish this law governing relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia in place and around the world to be adopted with wide support, with a broad consensus. I'd just like to explain something to Mr. Bevk. In this first position of the Group of Members, he mentioned this transfer of funds from the Ministry of Culture to the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world. This transfer of funds has taken place, and I think this is the right choice, because these are the funds allocated to the Ministry of Culture through the invitation to tender to the Slovenians, for the cultural initiatives of the Slovenes in place and around the world. By transferring these funds to the Slovenian office in place and around the world, they essentially merged into one public tender, so that the Slovenians are no longer required to monitor two calls at two different addresses in Slovenia, but one alone. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture retained its role in this, as two representatives of the Ministry of Culture are also included in the expert committees that decide on these roles. The Office is pleased to take the initiative to participate in the drafting of the amendments. I think it is clear from my intervention that we will make every possible effort to harmonise this law with the amendments so that it is acceptable for Slovenia, for you Members here in the National Assembly, as well as to bring some opportunities to the Slovenians in place and around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Pelican. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I will read them: Pukšič, Battelli, Jerovšek. Here you go. You've got five minutes. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since there was also something to be heard during the debate about the work done in the previous year, and in particular about the invitation to tender for the magazine, I would like to explain the following. The evaluation of the Office's work in the past year was made by Slovenians and Slovenians living outside the borders. I thank them from my heart. The assessment was theirs because we worked in this office for, I have often said, the gold of Slovenian grain, wherever it is on this earth. As regards the last draft of the tender for printed media, however, the following is true. Two years ago, about a year and a half ago, such a call was also made on which the Commission, which was composed of the Office of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education, elected as the publisher of the Family. A political decision, therefore, contrary to the invitation to tender, was made in the invitation to choose the one to meet the best conditions proposed by the Commission, but Mrs Richtareva, Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel and then State Secretary Jadranka Šturm Kocjan politically decided to give it to someone else. The magazine Slovenia.The world that has been going on for a year and a half, although I have been doing this work in the last year on only one visit to the Slovenians outside, on this occasion I have asked about this magazine and they are that, since what is not the National Gruda, they no longer have a newspaper. That means they didn't know much about this magazine. The magazine, which has now been chosen by the Commission, was of eight members, i.e. the selection of seven for and one has been identified as one, not the one currently complaining. Three members of this committee were the same as they were about a year and a half ago. The choice was based on the application, based on the material evidence at the time of the application, based on the four best discussions with the Commission and also at the end before the signing of the contract on the basis of a discussion with the then State Secretary. I am sure that the choice was the best, but it will only show up with the work of this magazine, but not only in writing, but also in electronic or online form, so that it will have its portal because it has not been so far. I hope and wish that it will reach the highest possible number of Slovenians and Slovenes in the world, because it is actually intended for them. Now, in connection with the transfer of this office back to the foreign ministry. My belief is that this would be one of the bad choices again. During the 12 years it turned out that this did not work, and even this year it turned out, but not only this year, but also the need, you yourself mentioned 28 regional laws that kept on the watch and watch over these areas for Slovenes in place and around the world. So the need, the integral need, also due to economic integration and development. And I am sure that this would also contribute to the development of Slovenia in the future. I am sure of this, just as I have been for the past six years, which I am actively engaged in, is the best for the Slovenes and Slovenians who live outside to be headed by the Minister's Office without a ticket. I am convinced that it is good to have a financial minimum in this law for the functioning of this and to introduce or record possible tax reliefs for all those working in this area to preserve Slovenia and Slovenia's culture. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Puksich. Mr. Battelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you, President. I'm not going to be friends and colleagues, and I'm not going to be stealing too much of your time. But, look, on such sensitive topics, because this is not only about the fate of the community, but also about individual fates and so on, how many self-referential discussions were there, and also at the semi-empty hall. I stress this because, otherwise, such a topic has always been the subject of great demagogic fervor. That's one thing. That is to say, the self-reference of these discussions and the justification for the actions of certain persons. And then I see here again, and not only on this subject, but I detect a lack of basic information for the entire assembly to make the right decision. This is now a broader problem, which has proved to be very apparent here in my humble opinion. And thirdly, what I was going to say is that it is the ideology of this policy and the correction of injustices in this area as well. You know, the constant rectification of certain injustices essentially distracts attention from the real problems of people who live here and now and must still have the opportunity to live with dignity. It takes away the attention from that. Therefore, it will be necessary to find consensus that this will stop, because it is not possible to use the same methods when, as I would say, it also rightly accuses them of having existed with the same methods, to challenge it. You can't. Not in this area, not in any other area. We need to find one maturity, sufficient maturity to stop this and finally focus on solving the problems that exist and which are also drawn from the past, from history and so on. This courage and maturity must be sought on the basis of true information. The profession is offering them to us. The problem is not in the profession, the problem is politics that doesn't hear, doesn't understand, doesn't want to deal with this problem. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, at 7.30 a.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u214	Dear Members and Members, Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and co-workers! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, an orange light must be lit on the right side of the card, in which case the vote can be carried out. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - the consideration of the candidate's proposal for a minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: For a Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, Dr. Jože Pavlič Damjan is hereby appointed. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Of the 72 Members and Members, 47 voted against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that Dr. Jože Pavlič Damjan is appointed Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] I congratulate the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on his appointment and wish him to perform his duties successfully! I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u215	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and that I will work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u216	I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposed Mountain Routes Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposed Mountain Routes Act is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Mogue, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u217	I will certainly vote against this decision, because the applicants presented in the working body and also in the national assembly that the law is fine. This law allows for free passage through private property to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, this law allows us to legislate and try to protect it by law by naming it after Mount Knafelec. This law provides an inappropriately safer route through the mountains, since there is likely to be fewer accidents, fewer injuries, and fewer deaths. And lastly, this law is a law in which we also show Slovenians our identity. It is not surprising that we Slovenians have chosen in our backs exactly Triglav as the highest mountain we have, is symbolic. It is not too difficult to say that the mountaineers have contributed in any way in the past to the preservation of the reputation, and it is necessary to say when voting on this law that the mountaineers, regardless of the color they belong to, do not have mountaineering in their feet, but have it in their hearts. Therefore, I ask you not to support this decision and allow the mountains for Christmas to shine a better sun on their mountain trails.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Here you go, please. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. Of course, as co-signor of the proposed law, I will not support the decision proposed by my mother's working body. The fact is, mountain paths need to be made safe and especially friendly to the mountains. I certainly cannot agree with what has been said in the debate if someone does not support the law because there is no real legal relationship and is disturbed by the fact that this law allows for the passage of mountains across private land to a certain mountain point. Therefore, we can expect that the journey of one mountaineer, who now spends two days to the top of Triglav, will last if the new government prepares the law for about 14 days, because he will walk across the Regional Gora and Celovec to find all public roads so that he can reach the top of Triglav. As far as the sign is concerned. We have already heard in the debate of my fellow Member, Mr Barovic, that today we have our mark on Slovenians. Or maybe we're waiting for Europeans to make it a blue ball with E, but if we find someone else who will have time to draw stars instead of a bullet - thank you very much! I will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u220	Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the decision of the parent working body, because it proves that this government does not like the mountaineers. It is simply this: there were some starting points, a good basis to be discussed, a matter that could be rewarded and improved, and unfortunately you have come up with a political approach to such a bright topic that connects many Slovenes because of the wrong proposalr, which is not and will not be good for this nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u222	Ma'am, Master Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposed decision will not be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law that we are now referring to has some provisions that could be supplemented by improvements. Before this law, we have already adopted and supported proposals for laws that have had a lot more shortcomings than this, and we will also declare another such law appropriate for further consideration. It is a pity that the marriage proposal will not receive the support that mountaineering enjoys between citizens and citizens of Slovenia. It is a pity that only the challenge of this proposal for a government law was so great that it decided to draft its own law, which would, of course, speak of mountaineering and mountain trails. We believe that the bill deals well enough with the issues on which it is addressed, so we will vote, as we say, in the Socialist Group of Members against the finding that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u224	Mr. Juban, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Chairman. I respect certain comments mainly from coalition types that the law should be amended or finalised in some parts. And after the short talks, we found that these comments were very few and that even coalition Members would be willing to support the law, but - but they can't. In this house we often hear about the development of tourism as alternative activities to the celebration of mountain areas, rural areas and so on. Let someone explain to me what restricting hiking by mountain routes would mean for the accelerated emptying of mountain areas or tourist farms that survive exclusively through this activity. And one of the things that surprised me most in the debate of the coalition Members is that hiking is more harmful than the benefits. This is something you don't hear often in this angry Slovenia. And the reasons - why this law is not appropriate - I do not think they are justified, and I will not support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u226	Mr. Jelinčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you very much. During the 12 years of the LDS and the United List, we have experienced something like this many times that I fear we will experience today, that a good law will fall because of the wrong man. I think it would be nice if we didn't repeat the mistakes of the 12 years, because we see where they brought us, and it doesn't make sense to do what they've done before, and to take revenge in this way. The law is as a basis good, the amendments can be tabled and I do not think there will be any problem with accepting this amendment, so I think it makes sense if we all vote together against this proposal, as I will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u228	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour and 37 in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure under the bill has therefore been completed. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u229	I'd use it on a case-by-case basis. First of all, I would like to thank those who supported the marriage. And whoever wants to co-sign the law in the third form, I have it here, as I promised, and this law will again be in the procedure tomorrow, corrected by amendments at those points where the legislature said it was wrong. Anyone who wants to do this can sign it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u230	I regret to warn you, Mr Moge, that this was not a procedural question. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support such a proposal to conclude that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. The Act on Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia finally comes into the parliamentary procedure, and this law, for the first time in fact, expresses a high political principle to Slovenians in place and around the world through the 1996 resolution and the 2002 resolution, this time specifies in a legal act. Secondly, this law specifically lays down the powers and tasks of both the social and economic life of Slovenians outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Thirdly, the law finally provides a legal basis for regulating the financing of activities and the organisation of Slovenians in place and around the world. It is almost impossible to imagine that for so many years there was no law for Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship in accordance with Article 5 of the Constitution, and this law also solves this problem. Finally, the law also regulates the area of repatriation, which I think is very important for Slovenians and Slovenians in areas where there is a government or economic or political crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u232	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 15. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Sustainable Use of Uranium ore and Prevention of the Consequences of Mining in the Mercury Mine, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please, Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u233	Good evening, Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the law before you is to ensure that the closing parts of the uranium mine continue, particularly with regard to the smooth continuation of works at the permanent rehabilitation of the mining and hydrometallural waste disposal sites Jazbec and Boršt. The current legal basis for the permanent suspension of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine Zirovski vrh, as defined in the law on the permanent cessation of uranium ore exploitation and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine, was set as the deadline for the completion of all parts of the permanent recovery at the end of this year. This proposal to amend and supplement the law, however, provides for a new deadline for the completion of all parts of permanent rehabilitation in 2010, mainly due to the technically very difficult parts of the permanent rehabilitation of the mining and hydrometallural waste disposal sites Jazbec and Boršt. It should be noted that the uranium concentrate production facility was closed as planned from the amended programme with less used resources than planned. Above all, it is important to note that by the end of this year, full work has been done on the rehabilitation of the cave or plant for the production of uranium concentrate. However, the closing works at Jazbec and Boršt did not begin and the main reason is that, on the basis of additional hydrological, geological and geomechanical research required, the project bases have been changed, requiring new project solutions and the production of entirely new documentation. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law brings about a rationalisation of the costs of the state budget, as the current public company workers at the Žirovska Summit will also carry out the radioactive monitoring to be provided by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Radioactive Waste in the management of radioactive waste, which, in accordance with the law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, carries out the compulsory State economic public service of long-term control. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also been given the opportunity to transfer the Uranium Žirovski vrh to the directorate and thus further reduce the costs of closure by reducing the costs of current operations. In 2002, a new system law on protection against ionising radiation was adopted which classified Jazbec and Boršt landfills as radiation plants. This also required the fulfilment of additional measures and conditions for obtaining authorisation for the execution of closures and remedial works. As I have already mentioned, further research and studies were needed for Boršt landfill; these have shown that technical solutions are relatively difficult. In addition to the already known condition, slopes, plasmidity of the area, a change in the properties of the suspended material was also found. The Law on the Permanent Cessation of Uranium ore Exploitation provides that, following closed closures and remedial parts, closed facilities shall be subject to a period of management for the purpose of continuous monitoring of environmental impacts. However, management includes control of environmental impacts and maintenance of closed and rehabilitated facilities. On the basis of the rules, this period is divided into two parts, a five-year transitional period and a long-term management period. The management of closed and rehabilitated facilities is governed by the law on protection against ionising radiation. However, a specific part of management is monitoring environmental and human health impacts, which are carried out in accordance with legislation. In order to complete all closures and remedial works, it will be necessary to provide approximately 7 billion Slovenian tolars for the period 2006-2010, or 6 billion Slovenian tolars, or 6 billion 933 million tolars. I would like to point out that I am convinced that the decision on additional research and new projects, which will ensure greater security despite the delay in the completion of the works and thus the extension of the deadline for the completion of the closing works, was correct. It would be unacceptable for the villagers in this valley and also our craftsmen to accept, respectable Members and Members, that, on the basis of new knowledge of greater security in the final resolution of landfills, despite a somewhat higher cost and in fact higher costs than originally planned, these new knowledge would not be taken into account. For the public company Rudnik Žirovski vrh and the professional, which participates in the project of closure and rehabilitation, this would be unacceptable and irresponsible. I am of the opinion that it is therefore right to support the proposed amendments to the law, thereby allowing for the continuation of the remedial work. On the Committee on Environment and Space, you have also improved the law of MEPs and MPs with the amendments. I would like to point out that the Government also supports the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed Milenk Zicherl, which adds a new third paragraph and thus writes into the legal standard the content of which we have discussed extensively on the Committee, namely that the compensation provided for in this paragraph is paid as compensation for the limited use of the premises and that the recipient is a substitute for the municipality. Under the regulations in force, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will draw up a sub-legislative act. I suggest you confirm the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Petan, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor. At its urgent meeting, the Committee on Environment and Space considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and preventing the consequences of the mining of uranium Žirovski vrh. In addition to the representatives of the proposed law-and-legislative service of the National Assembly, representatives of the Rudnik uranium Žirovski vr. d.o.o. and representatives of the municipality of Gorenje of the village of Poljane. In the introductory explanation of the bill, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, presented the objectives and main solutions of the bill's proposal, which ensure the possibility of continuing closures and relate in particular to the permanent rehabilitation of the landfills of mining and hydrometal industry Jazbec and Boršt, by 2010, due to the technically difficult parts of the permanent rehabilitation for which revision of the revised programme is required. Upon completion of all closures and other tasks, it is envisaged to transfer to the new operator. During the entire period of implementation of the remedial works, conditions will be provided for the smooth implementation of parts of external operators, and a gradual reduction in the number of employees and the rationalisation of the running costs of the public undertaking will also be envisaged. This also provides for the possibility for public undertakings to be transferred to a overhead facility. Despite the accelerated financing of the closures, 9.3m euros of incarceration and rehabilitation works remain following the revised programme. However, additional resources will need to be provided for the completion of all closures and remedial works between 2006 and 2010. The Legislative and Legal Service has proposed some nomological improvements to the texts in Articles 2, 3, and 4 of the draft law. The Ministry of Environment and Space was given the initiative to explore the possibility of placing a warehouse for low- and medium-radioactive waste in the uranium mine area of the Žirovski Summit in the context of the operation of remedial works, as well as in other locations in the country. That initiative would make sense to take into account the resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The Committee on Environment and Space adopted the following amendments to Article 2, Article 3 and Article 4. After the discussion on the articles of the law and the debate and vote on the amendments to the Committee in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, he voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law on the permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Urinian Mine was prepared and is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Drago Koren has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u237	Good evening, Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposed amendment of the law on the permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine will be supported by the Zirovski Summit. We see in this law three changes that this change is ahead of us. The first is that radiological and meteorological monitoring tasks will be carried out by workers of the current public company Rudnik Urana Žirovski vrh, which will certainly contribute to cost reduction and rationalisation. Another important thing that we see in this law is the possibility of liquidating a public undertaking before all the tasks envisaged in the closure programme are completed, if it is estimated that a public undertaking as such is no longer needed if the number of employees - which is also recognised - is to be reduced and that this can only become a management facility within the Ministry of Environment and Space. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that this move would be worthwhile, so that it would certainly rationalise certain costs. The third and main amendment is, of course, an extension of the deadline for the complete closure of the mine and the permanent rehabilitation of the mines and hydrometeorological heifers Jazbec and Boršt, which is extended until 2010. We all know that, after the current programme, the matter should be completed by the end of this year. On the committee, we were informed by the Director of the Public Mining Company that the mine itself would be closed when it was closed. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u238	I'm sorry. I'd like to ask if you'd stop with the parallel meeting. Gentlemen, if you leave the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u239	Says it's just gonna be the closure of the mine. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u241	and facilities completed within the deadline, it is said, by the end of this year, that the problem is in these two landfills Jazbec and Boršt, where new projects will need to be prepared, new programmes to make things better. [[...]] Although we have been asked whether there are any reasons why this rehabilitation was not already started in these two landfills or that it is not yet successful and if it is possible to find any culprits here. There is also a question in the parliamentary group about the financial consequences of this law. After this programme, there is a need for 7 billion tolars somewhere, which we estimate is quite a supply, but we hope that the funds will be provided and that this recovery will also be completed within the foreseeable time frame. We will support the proposed law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Honourable Director of the Directorate, Dear Fellows and Fellows! The law on the permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the effects of mining in the uranium mine Žirovski vrh, and the novel track for the permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Žirovski vrh mine, define the permanent suspension of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Zirovski vrh mine until the end of 2005. In fact, it works due to the amendment of the legislation and the finding of different geomechanical conditions at the landfills of hydrometallurgical and cavern beef will not be completed by that date. At the landfill of Jazbec mining heifer, rehabilitation is already under way, and in the landfill of Borst hydrometal heifers, rehabilitation has not even begun. It is urgently necessary to set a new deadline for the completion of all parts of the permanent recovery of the end-use of uranium ore and to prevent the consequences of mining in the mine by the end of 2010 and to ensure that the closing parts of the Žirovski vrh mine can continue, in particular with regard to the permanent rehabilitation of the landfills of the mining and hydrometal industry Jazbec and Boršt. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, representatives of the Municipality of Gorenje Vasi - Poljane were also present, saying the local community that belongs in this area and gave some views. On the basis of a contract on the free transfer of property, the transfer of land to the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane in 2003 was carried out and the transfer process is delayed, causing problems to the local community in the process of granting building rights in the Todraž economic zone to interested entrepreneurs. Thus, the municipality of Gorenje vas - Poljane was deprived of all 35 years of economic development, since all investments were intended for the uranium Žirovski vrh mine, so at least during the mine closure phase the requirements of the local community are required to be respected. Moreover, the additional disadvantaged local communities also constitute the non-payment of compensation for the use of building land on the basis of the claim that the landfills of Jazbec mining and Boršt hydrometal mining are not radioactive but that radiation facilities are located on both landfills, although there is a higher amount of radioactive waste. The municipality of Gorenje Vas - Poljane also notes that the amendment of the law does not provide for a regular member of the Supervisory Board as well as a representative of the local community. Such conduct constitutes a barrier to good cooperation between a public undertaking and the local community. The involvement of the local community is essential, as it is only in this way that a constructive relationship of good cooperation between the municipality and the public entrepreneur of the Žirovski vrh mine can be established, which the municipality is constantly working on. It is therefore essential to facilitate the equal participation of local communities. It is also necessary to recognise the limited use of space due to two disposals of hydrometalluric and cave manure in the approximate area of 10 hectares. This matter, however, is being resolved by the amendment, of which I am also a signatory, which is in line with the government, and we will also support the Members of the People's Party, as we will also support the law on amendments and additions to the law on permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine, Žirovski vrh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable persistent colleagues and co-workers of the National Assembly. Closure works are a very difficult process in all mines. And, of course, every law or bill amending and supplementing the law is welcome. Welcome, if it has - and I think - objective reasons for the closure work because of its high degree of difficulty to take place safely, at the time it takes, and of course with all the accompanying measures, which are not only and only an extension of the time or increase for this necessary means, but are also a solution to some of the social problems of the miners, both the uranium ore mine at the Žirovsko Summit and elsewhere. The proposed amendment law has its reasons, has a desire to complete the closures, to seek smooth implementation, and is also here to ensure safety at work itself, to find out, to verify the situation of the threat and, last but not least, to question compensation for the use of space, because every space that is consumed is like a person who has a severe wound on any part of the body. And looking at nature, of course, is not pleasant about it. Above all, I welcome in this time period, which moves from 2005 to 2010, for closing works, also the Government's proposal or idea to explore the possibility of placing low- and medium-radioactive waste storage in both the uranium mining area of the Žirovski vrh and in the areas of other closing mines. For at this time, of course, it will also be necessary to be aware of all of us, what is, in fact, low - and medium - radioactive waste, why they are harmless, to what extent they are harmless and in what form and content they are harmless. Of course, this solves both the financial and the other spatial problems of closure. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will support the proposal for a law because we are aware of the difficulties of these works. Of course, as elsewhere, we will very much like to hear and see how these works are going on and that the funds, for this purpose, will be intended primarily for security, rational consumption and also compensation for the beautiful land of our country of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u247	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposed law is to ensure the possibility of continuing the closing parts of the uranium mine, namely the permanent rehabilitation of the landfills of mining and hydrometallural heifers Jazbec and Boršt. The Law on the Permanent Cessation of Uranium Mining and the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Uranium Zirovski Top, as well as the novel programme for the permanent cessation of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine, define the permanent suspension of the exploitation of uranium ore and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine itself, Žirovski vrh, until 2005. In fact, all closures and remedial works due to legislative changes, the findings of different geological and geomechanical conditions in landfills will not be completed by the deadline foreseen. It is therefore essential to propose a new deadline for the completion of all works by the end of 2010. This ensures the possibility of continuing the closing parts of the Žirovski vrh mine, which relate mainly to the permanent rehabilitation of both mining and hydrometallural waste disposal sites Jazbec and Boršt. The new deadline for completion is extended mainly due to the technically very difficult works required by the permanent rehabilitation of both landfills. However, further stages of permanent recovery also require the establishment of an area of limited use of space due to landfills and also the level of compensation due to limited use of space. This also summarizes the proposed amendment. Due to the difficult remedial consequences that could have arisen in the event of an unforeseen natural disaster, it is imperative to extend the deadline for the completion of all parts of the permanent recovery and to provide a legal basis for the execution of the said works. That is why we will support both the draft law and the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u248	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Dr Pavel Gantar will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u249	Mr Vice President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS Parliamentary Club, we will propose amendments and supplement the law on the permanent cessation of uranium mining and the prevention of the consequences of mining in the uranium mine. We will also support the amendments adopted by the parent working body, as well as the amendment prepared by the group of Members concerning the compensation to which the local community in the area of which the facility is located. The reasons for the adoption of the law are the delays that have occurred in the closure of the uranium Žirovski vrh mine. The reasons for the delays could be debated for a long and broad period of time, but we should and should say that these delays were mainly due to objective factors related to the difficulty of recovery, to the changes in legislation and also to the new and identified problems of a technical and other nature arising from the works themselves. It is not to be forgotten that it is an object intended for the extraction and processing of uranium ore, and therefore, given the potential risks that would result from the professionally disputed closure of the mine or the decommissioning of facilities or the rehabilitation of landfills, this is a very sensitive issue. A particularly sensitive issue and technically difficult is the permanent regulation of both landfills, where it has proved to be technically more difficult due to the hydromechanical, hydrological and other conditions already mentioned. At the same time, as has been said, both landfills are also radiating facilities, and so, of course, also required re-checking and supplementing the documents governing this rehabilitation. At the same time, we support the possibility that, after a certain period of time, what will be left of the mine will be transformed into a overhead facility under the administration of the Ministry of Environment and Space. We will, of course, define this when the Ministry decides to do so, but in principle we support this option. I would therefore point out once again that the LDS Club will support the proposal of the law and also support all the amendments annexed to the opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to second reading, this is to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled on 15.12.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Milenko Ziherl, you are on the bench. Since I see no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. We're voting. I find that 58 Members and Members have elected 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 60 against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of Number 154 Convention on the promotion of collective bargaining. I give the floor to Mrs Breda Pecan to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u251	Good evening! They told me that it is best to be the only one who gives the position of the Group of Members on an individual proposal addressed at this meeting. I think it is appropriate and right to warn Members and Members, but above all the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that this Convention is not just so. And that if we ratify international conventions, we stick to them. I would like to point out that there is a whole series of international agreements, conventions, or whatever these agreements are already called, which our country - inter alia, the Kyoto Agreement - does not comply with, even though it has ratified them. I would therefore like to point out that we are ratifying the Convention on the Promotion of Collective Negotiating only today because the Labour Relations Act, which allows the ratification of this Convention, was adopted in 2003, and that in 2003 the Social Agreement for the period 2003-2005, signed by the largest number of social partners so far, has also been signed an agreement to promote and develop a system of collective bargaining and strengthening social dialogue in our country. For this reason, I would also like to point out that when social partners, employers and employees meet to agree on new negotiations for the period 2006 and beyond, it is mandatory and right to participate in these negotiations, even when they only agree on rules on how the negotiations will proceed and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia participates. Regrettably, even though this government has proposed that the State Assembly ratify the Convention, it was not necessary for the first negotiations on a social agreement to be held in our country, for the first meeting of negotiators. I believe that this Convention also commits the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to certain acts which may not be of particular interest to it, but which it will have to carry out. Therefore, the Social Democrats Group supports the ratification of this Convention and at the same time supports all activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to facilitate, facilitate and facilitate social communication and collective bargaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u252	Thank you very much. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the bill. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted for 56 against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - This is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on mutual legal assistance between the European Union and the United States of America. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on the articles of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. Of the 58 Members and Members, 54 voted against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Period of the agenda - This is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of an agreement on extradition between the European Union and the United States of America. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted for 55 against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE CERTIFICATE OF THE BROADING TEXTS OF THE LAWS. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the hospitality law." We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 58 against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Employment and Work Act is confirmed." We're voting. 61 Members and Members, 57 votes to 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of that law has been confirmed by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The officially refined text of the law on products of noble metals is confirmed." We're voting. 63 Members and Members voted 62 in favour, against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Criminal Procedure Act is confirmed." We're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 63 in favour against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Notariat Act is confirmed." We're voting. 65 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on Measures to Eliminate the Effects of Certain Large-scale Earth Plazas in 2000 and 2001 is confirmed." We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 65 against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I find that the purified text of that law has been confirmed by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The official text of the Ski Safety Act is confirmed." We're voting. 65 present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has confirmed the officially purified text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the travel documents law." We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 65 against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Police Act." We're voting. Of the 59 Members and Members, 58 voted against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially refined text of the law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products is confirmed." We're voting. There are 63 present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider ten proposals by the Judicial Council for election in a judicial capacity, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Ombudsman, a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are disputed in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy, and the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition of the appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigation Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination and assessment of the factual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the exercise of control under the law of the State Prosecutor's Office [[Uh-huh. I. RS, No. 110/02]] , officially consolidated text, amending legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. Proposals for decisions on the election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly ten proposals for the election to the judicial office of the Court of Justice, namely nine District Judges at the District Court in Maribor, Slovenska Bistrica and Celje and the District Court in the District Court in Ptuj. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? Thank you very much. [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, France Sušnik, for the presentation of the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of Article 28 of the Law on the Courts and Article 130 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia proposed 10 candidates to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The mandate-election commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposals of the Judicial Council at its 14th meeting, on 7 December 2005. She did not have any comments on the proposals and supported the proposal of the Judicial Council for the election of the 10 candidates proposed for judicial office, so I propose that you vote in favour of the election as we have voted so far to elect a total of 56 candidates proposed for 10 meetings, and together with today's 10 candidates we will elect 57 judges and 9 judges from the beginning of the mandate to today's session. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u254	Thank you very much. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Aleksandre Fridl Boc to the District Court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted in favour, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mihaele Pasek to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. 57 Members and Members voted 53 against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Eljana Roma to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted in favour, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Medved Ladinek to the District Court in the District Court in Slovenska Bistrica. We're voting. 58 Members and Members voted in favour, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Daniela Ružič to the District Court in the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There were 60 votes in favour and 55 against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Katja Kolarič Bojanec to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Ptuj. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted for 56, against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Perc to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. 61 Members and Members of Parliament voted for 56, against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mateja Dečman Venchur to the District Court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There were 58 votes in favour and 54 against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Gordana Malovic to the District Court in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There were 59 votes in favour and 54 in favour against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 2]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tanja Dol Bozič to the District Court in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted for 56, against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has adopted the proposed decision. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Deputy Ombudsman. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission, Mr Francet Jamnik, to discharge his duties as Deputy Ombudsman of 31.12.2005. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Frances Jamnik as Deputy Ombudsman of 31.12.2005. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 57 against 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are contested in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. I give the text to the President of the Commission, Franc Sušnik, for presentation of the report of the Commission. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! At its 11th meeting, on 30 November 2005, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an act authorising a parliamentary inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of capital company shares d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are contested in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. On this basis, it was the mandate-holder commission of the National Assembly to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry. Therefore, the parliamentary groups were asked to submit to the Commission a proposal on the number of representations of each parliamentary group in the composition of that commission of inquiry, as well as proposals by candidates for president, vice-president and members and alternate members of that commission of inquiry. In doing so, it was necessary to take into account that the parliamentary investigation was initiated at the request of a third of the Members and therefore, the fifth paragraph of Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation applies to the composition of the Commission of Inquiry, after which all the members or their alternates have the same number of members in the Commission of Inquiry. However, the President of the Commission of Inquiry shall be elected from the Members who have made a request for a parliamentary inquiry. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the Group may cancel membership or representation on the Board of Inquiry. The Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation in Article 6 provide that each member of the Board of Inquiry shall have his or her deputy, who is a member of the same parliamentary group. The National Assembly shall appoint a President and a Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry from among its members. It follows from the proposals submitted by the Group of Members that the members of the SDS, NSI, SLS, SNS and DeSUS, the LDS and SD Group have submitted a notification that they will not participate in the Commission of Inquiry. On the basis of the responses and proposals sent by the groups of Members, the mandate-holder committee has drawn up a proposal which you have received for today's meeting and is in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry. On this basis, I propose to the National Assembly that this proposal be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before giving the floor to individuals and even later to the debaters, I would like to draw your attention to something. I believe that we will discuss the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President. If there will be any other debate that will not be linked to the composition, the appointment of the President and the other members of this Commission, I will adjourn the debate. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you very much. There was so much talk about this committee that I would have nothing to add that the president would not accidentally take my word away from me, I will say on behalf of the New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party that we will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, no, no, I just brought a reminder to myself that I will know what conclusion we are discussing so that the Vice-President does not accidentally interrupt me or use what he may have to do against someone today - or I hope not. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a decision. We note that the decision of the National Assembly to set up an investigative commission is legal, even if it is adopted, we estimate that it is also legal, but we regret that two opposition parties have not taken advantage of the opportunity and proposed their members - only if you are present can you change matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. I would ask you to continue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u261	Mr Vice-President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u262	Dear Master Žnidaršič, I would not like to use Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, so continue, Mr Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u263	Yes, a respected vice president, colleagues and colleagues. Our parliamentary group will support the proposal by the Commission's mandate-immunity committee, deploring that not all parliamentary parties participate in this committee, which we think would be good. It is not the best thing that will happen for the coalition to have its own agenda by proposing its members four coalition parties and one replacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Znidarsich. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. Dear President, fellow Members, fellow Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the decision on the composition and appointment of members of the Commission of Inquiry. It shall be drawn up in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure. The Commission may, if appointed, start work and it is also good in view of the extensive proposal and the subject matter of the investigation to start work as soon as possible. That is why the SDS Group will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeakle on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u267	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Given that time is not limited, we could talk for a long time, but I don't think it's necessary to talk long. I suggest you vote on your committee as soon as possible. I propose that the Commission begin to work and before the next meeting of the National Assembly, we will check whether you have begun to consider the Mercator case, whether you have invited Mr Janša, Mr Visiak, Mrs Starina Kosem. And if you are not, we will propose to the President of the National Assembly to exercise what he has said, the constitutional right of the second group of members of the National Assembly. Everything else is a waste of time. I suggest you start working, after Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The establishment of your commission of inquiry is due to the wrong decisions of this national assembly, both the President and the majority. Since you have made this decision, today it is only the result and enforcement of this fact. This will be an investigative commission of the coalition plus Jelinčič's nationalists, an investigative commission in which at least one third of the members of the national assembly will not be present, an investigative commission that will not have opposition parties, that will be your investigative commission, which will not represent the national assembly with dignity. Formally, you can have it. However, I expect this National Assembly to know whether it will be recognised elsewhere, that we also have the right of an investigative commission of Members and Members of the opposition to guarantee the Constitution and that we also have the right to investigate. As long as the legal violence in the National Assembly is as it is, you will work and make your own decisions. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u270	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u271	Now I have to adjust to this general mood, so let me put it this way. I will respect your warning. Since I have no data on the height and width of candidates and candidates, I cannot say anything about them, because I don't know their weight either, I don't know how difficult the commission is, I don't know their sports activities and cavalry, so I can't say anything about the composition of this commission. I also wish her a happy journey, and with great interest and expectation I expect mainly the part of the report that will apply to Mercator.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Bajc, you have the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Bostian Zagorac. [[He's quitting, too.]] Mr. Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you, Vice President. I'm not giving up. I'll talk about the composition of this commission. This composition, as well as the Commission's proposal by the President, speaks of the fact that this commission is fictitious, being false. The name of this commission is also wrong. It is not a commission that will identify political responsibility, but it is a commission that will obstruct and prevent the identification of political responsibility. If we were colleagues and colleagues from a coalition in good faith, we would simply resolve the matter, as was proposed on our part at that time. However, since you have not accepted our proposal, the mask has fallen and you have proved that you do not want to find political responsibility, but to prevent it. And the composition of the commission proves it. I can tell you today that if you find out anything, you'll find some little things in the operation of two funds. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u274	Mr. Aurelio Juri, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u275	I'm talking about composition, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u276	I would ask, no, what the commission will find or find out, we're talking about composition and appointment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u277	I'm talking about the composition. This composition predicts even today that it will not find anything further than the moment that your authority has taken control of the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. [[Ad in the background.]] Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u279	Respected and esteemed! I can only talk about the composition of the commission in a parable. Of course, this composition will not be able to produce the results it promises, but it can bring the one that is, in fact, the only salvation. The Commission was set up in order not to set up another commission, thus performing its function, it is said, in a way, a miracle, an adventurous miracle occurred. But as far as the compositions are concerned, I must say, there is always a Bedanec in these stories about Kekc. The bastard doesn't want to do this, and that's why there's definitely not going to be this show. But I want all those who will take part in this commission, and especially those of Moses, the blind Moosa, who seek righteousness, happy!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u280	Thank you very much. It's Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik's turn. [[You're giving up.]] Mr. Milan Friday. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich. [[He's quitting.]] I'll read you and whoever decides to raise your hand, please. Aloise Posedel, Maja Shirca, Lucky Friend is gone, Davorin Targeton, mag. Branko Grims, Ivan Grill, Rudi Veršnik, Rudolf Petan, Mitja Ljubeljšek, Miran Ptrč, Zvonko Černač, Jože Tanko. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition of the appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of capital company shares d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are contested in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. Peace, please! 40 votes to 12. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish and assess the factual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the exercise of control under the State Prosecutor's Office Act [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 110/02 - Officially purified text]] to amend legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. There are no announced debaters. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition, appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the exercise of supervision under the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office for amending legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional competences of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 63 present, 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda - to consider the proposal for a law amending the law on local elections in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading under the simplified procedure, namely the decision on the two amendments to Articles 1 and 2. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1. Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. A very brief explanation of the amendments that we have prepared in the Slovenian National Party for the proposal for a law on local elections. We have prepared the amendments that you have before you, namely that the number of signatures per cent of the population and not the electoral beneficiaries is required, as envisaged by the bill itself, for a very practical reason. On the contrary, we all know that a ballot or candidature should be issued at least 30 days before the elections, while the electoral directory ends six days before the elections and in our conviction, it would be very controversial if a list were rejected 30 days before the elections, while six days before the elections, they would have found that this list, I will say, met the required number of signatures in order to be properly submitted. In order to avoid such and other constitutional opinions, we have proposed amendments to Article 1 and to Article 2 of the Act in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Genius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u283	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u284	We are discussing Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u285	We will support this amendment, although the adoption of this amendment on the one hand reduces the number of signatures required for the candidacy in view of the previous two per cent solution. The problem, however, is that the lower limit has also been dramatically reduced and there will now be only four signatures in the smallest congregation, which, of course, is a kind of solution to which the amendment's proposer seems to have no intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u286	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. I note that 69 Members and Members voted 16 to 45. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I note that 68 Members and Members voted 14 to 49. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. I note that there were 71 votes in favour and 71 votes in favour, 51 against 17. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 6th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the wine law. On Friday 16.12.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. Mr. Juban, do you have a procedural question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u287	Mr Vice-President, in the review of the agenda for the January session, this same wine law, third reading, is on the agenda. There must be some misunderstanding, I think that if we make a decision today, then January would be no more or if we were in January, then we can't make a decision today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-20-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Juban, for this warning. The January meeting of the assembly will be adjusted to the decision of the assembly today. We're voting on the law. 68 Members and Members voted in favour, 50 votes against 10. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. The third hearing will no longer be held in January. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 8th item of the agenda - addressing the proposal for a law amending the trade law - the third is being considered in the context of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third hearing in the context of a reduced procedure. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the LDS Group of Members and the amendment of the four coalition groups of Members to Article 1. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 1. Note. If the amendment is adopted, the next amendment becomes irrelevant. We're voting. I note that 69 Members and Members voted for 25 votes to 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 1. We're voting. I note that there were 64 votes in favour of Members and Members, 47 against 17. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. I note that 66 Members and Members voted for 48 votes to 18. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 18.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and wish you a pleasant night. Thank you.
