ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Dr Pavel Gantar from 12.00 p.m. on, Feri Horvat, Anton Kokalj, Jakob Presečnik, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Matjaž Švagan and Milenko Ziherl from 15.30 p.m. on. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory, Summary Procedure. I inform you that a total time of 3 hours and 20 minutes is foreseen. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Student Organisation of Slovenia on behalf of 5,000 voters. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Miha Ulcar, for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Squeakle, please don't disturb the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members, welcome! The new Income Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2005, has made the social situation of students and students in the Republic of Slovenia very much worse. Student work is a major social adjuster, because because of the inadequacy of other instruments providing education such as scholarship arrangements, living problems and the like, many students and students are allowed to study at all. In the student organisation of Slovenia we have already tried to resolve these matters in December, but since the case has not moved, on the basis of Article 88 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of Article 58 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and Article 114 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have submitted with the necessary more than 5,000 signatures of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income. In this novel we have proposed the following solution, namely to remove the age limit for eligibility for special personal relief, as we are aware that special personal relief must be linked to status and not to age. As far as status is concerned, however, it is precisely defined in higher education legislation. Then we proposed an instrument for the regressive decline of a special personal relief based on the level of income, as it seems unacceptable that an individual loses all special personal relief if he deserves a tolar more than a legal restriction. That is why we have proposed to introduce a tool of regressive decline in terms of income levels. As follows, we have proposed arrangements for an appropriate method of control. We are aware that there have been and are still various abuses, and we do not support this in the student organisation of Slovenia. However, the current control procedures are not effective and only constitute bureaucracy. Then we also proposed to abolish the withdrawal of up to 113,583 tolars. Otherwise, in practice, less than 4% of students pay the advance, exceed annually and pay the income. So, that means that 96% of students and students would get this deposit back in a year or more. What does that mean? This means that the country’s interest-free lending of money or financial resources is needed by students and students for their current survival. The comparison of a student or student for an employed person is out of place. The fact is that the majority of students and students do not live at home at the time of the study, but live at the study centre, which means increasing the cost of living, eating, transport and the like. According to our research, the cost of the study is between 90 and 120,000 a month. As I mentioned earlier, the biographical issue is not regulated. 16% of students can live in dormitory, others have to look for a place to stay in private, which imposes huge rent costs. As far as scholarships are concerned. 22% and a half of the students receive scholarships, out of 100,000 students, of which 12,500 are social, 6,000 Zois and only 4,000 staff scholarships. It is worth noting that, compared to abroad, we do not have a living problem, as I said - 16%. We do not have properly regulated transport subsidies that the prices of study literature are several times higher than abroad. The belief that students want to work during the course of their studies and that it is possible to make an unjustifiable profit in this account is misleading. The fact is, students work to be able to study. As I have pointed out many times, student work is not used by students or students from wealthier families, but is served by students and students who do not have a material position at home, an economic position to provide them with studies. In any case, student work is the great social correctional officer that allows students to study. And if we want to be a knowledge-based society, then the state has to make sure that we all get an equivalent education. To conclude the last meetings with the government, the Ministry of Finance, we have also signed an agreement on this novel. We have come up with an agreement to abolish the deposit of up to 100,000 on a travel ticket by addressing the other three proposals that we have proposed in the autumn package when this reform will be completely renewed, in order to take our proposals into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you. I allowed Mr. Ulchar to spend 40 seconds, but only because he's not from this house and probably doesn't know the rules as well as the rest of us. However, all other Members and Members and Government representatives are subject to all our rules so far. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Bojan Starman, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Honourable representatives of the student organisation and representatives of the Ministry of Finance headed by Minister Bajuk. At its 3rd meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Income, a reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and reception by 5,000 voters whose representatives in the legislative procedure are the Student Organisation of Slovenia. On 11.4.2005, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided that the proposed law should be dealt with in a reduced procedure. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was forwarded to the Committee. The Committee also received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 28.4.2005 with amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Act. In its opinion, the government states that proposals for amending the Income Laws are being addressed by the expert group on tax review and preparation established by the Government in January of this year. In this context, of course, the issues of student work and proposed solutions will also be addressed in particular. The Government further considers that taxation of the income of natural persons needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner and that, rather than partially resolving the comments of individual groups of taxpayers, it would support the inclusion of the issue under consideration in a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the Income Act. Nevertheless, the Government does not object to the basic purpose of the bill's proponents, but considers that the proposed text of amendments to the law does not fully achieve this purpose. The Government therefore proposes that the National Assembly, when considering the law, adopt a further amendment to delete Article 1 and that the amendment to amend Article 2 should abolish the annual income adjustment in the event that the individual income does not exceed EUR 74,000. Amendments to the student organisation and amendments to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were transmitted to the Committee. The Committee was also given an opinion by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, which I am summarizing to support in any way possible to allow for the best possible conditions of study and thus the conditions in this work in order to facilitate the income position of students. In the introductory explanation of the members, the representatives of the student organisation to the individual proposed solutions relating to the abolition of the age limit for eligibility for special personal relief, to complement the legal solutions with the instrument of regressive decline and to facilitate the level of income, and to empower the Minister of Finance to arrange for the supervision of the work of students and students by the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Labour Inspectorate, with a special provision and to abolish the adjustment of the income to the amount of individual income of 115 thousand Tolars. In an additional explanation, the government explained that the proposal by the applicants to raise the general relief that has not been mentioned so far raises to 2 million 080, that this amount exceeds only 0.4%, and that then the proposal to delete - the Secretary of State pointed out that so far a certain amount exceeds only 2% of the entire student population, the other students, which is 150 000, who on average realize 484,000 tolls. The increase in the border, which also provides special relief, would mean that only 0.4% of all students would lose their right to special relief in 2003. It was then defined by the proposal to delete the age limit that can still be discussed, and finally by the Article on the abolition of income. To shorten the matter. At the end of the extensive debate, which focused on the conditions and status of students and their material status, the amendment to Article 1 of the Act was adopted by adding "up to the age of 26" in the first sentence with the words "up to the age of 30" [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u5	Mr. Starman, please, if you finish, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u6	and the proposal was adopted that up to 74,000 tolls should not be paid an advance on income. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you. I give the floor to a government representative to present his position. Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrey Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u8	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members, representatives of the candidates of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, dear students and students, who have decided to follow this debate today in this National Assembly. The Student Organisation of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act adopted last year in this National Assembly, which entered into force on 1.1.2005, proposing that it be dealt with in a simplified procedure. The student organisation of Slovenia proposes to amend the tax treatment of the incomes of students and students obliged to carry out temporary or occasional work on the basis of a travel authorisation issued by an authorised organisation which carries out the activity of the intervention of work to students and students in accordance with the employment rules. Thus, for the first time, that a special personal allowance of EUR 1 million 200 000, as set out in Article 107(1) for residents, students and students whose total income does not exceed EUR 1 million 600 000, extends also to those beneficiaries under this paragraph whose income in a specific tax year is more than a million 600 thousand dollars and less than EUR 2 million 80 thousand. In this case, a personal allowance, a special large-scale relief of less than the amount of income, would be granted: if there were incomes above a million 600 thousand and up to 1 million 680 thousand dollars, this personal relief would be 1 million tolars; if there were incomes above 1 million 680 to a million 840 thousand tolars, then this would be a relief of 800 thousand tolars, but if there were incomes above 1 million 840 to 2 million to 80 tolars. Only if there were incomes above 2 million 80 would a special personal allowance not be recognised. Another time. A special personal allowance shall be granted to students resident and students regardless of age. Third time. The obligation of employers under Article 107, paragraph 4, to inform the tax administration and the inspectorate of the employment of students and students with the proposed fee shall be amended by leaving the mode, deadlines and form of information to the act of the minister responsible for the finances. It is also proposed that the 10th paragraph of Article 121 of the Income Act should be amended in order to ensure that income for temporary or temporary work received as a resident student or student does not pay an income adjustment if the individual income does not exceed 113 000 583 tolars. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has adopted two amendments to the proposal for a law by amending Article 1, paragraph 1, in the amended bill, by which a special personal allowance is granted to students and students eligible for this benefit only up to 30 years of age, and the exemption from the allowance for income is fixed at EUR 74,000 on the basis of the adopted amendment of the Government. Your Honor! Proposals for amendments to the Income Act are being examined by the expert group on the review and preparation of legislation in the tax field set up by the RS Government on the proposal of the Minister of Finance in January this year. The government therefore considers that it would be more appropriate to address the issue of student work in its entirety in the context of the changes to the income law currently under preparation. Nevertheless, the government does not object to the proposal to abolish the annual income advance on student work income if the individual income does not exceed a certain amount, namely, $100,000. It was agreed that the Ministry of Finance would prepare the amendments of the RS government to the proposal for a new law in this sense. The second point was therefore resolved and the content of the other points will be addressed in a comprehensive proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Income Act prepared by this group under the leadership of Dr Mark Kranjc. It was also agreed that such an amendment would be accepted by the government, which it had also done and tabled. For these reasons, the Government reiterates its proposal to support the Government's amendment to Article 1 as well as the Government's amendment to Article 2 of the amended law. Both amendments are harmonised, as I have already mentioned, also with the proposed bill, the Student Organisation in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Member Martin Mikolič has the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u10	Nicely greeted! Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, student representatives, distinguished students, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Parliamentary Group New Slovenia will support both amendments of the RS Government to the amended Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the content of which has been adopted on the home labour body. We will therefore support our parliamentary group, as government representatives have said, the agreement reached with the bill-makers, this is a student organisation, to delete Article 1 whose content will be resolved in a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the Income Act. However, in Article 2, the amount of income shall be increased from EUR 74,000 to EUR 100,000, from which no payment of income shall be made. As is known, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set up an expert group on tax reform, which will also examine the issue of student labour taxation. The Government’s view that the issue of taxation of the income of natural persons should be addressed in a comprehensive way is certainly correct and that the inclusion of the issue under consideration in the comprehensive proposal for amendments to the Income Act is the right approach, since it is only in this way that a final solution can be reached, not a partial solution to individual groups of taxpayers. In the Nova Slovenija Group, our views on the amendments proposed by the student organisations have been clearly defined and have also been presented to the amendment candidate at the meeting. In other words, the age limit to which a student's work can still be carried out is necessary, since, otherwise, if the restriction is lifted or this limit is unreasonablely extended, as adopted by the committee, it will unduly ensure the right of a certain part of the population to substitute for regular employment by means of a fictitious admission to colleges due to the possibility of a student's work. In this case, it is unfair competition for employees or those who employ workers in a regular working relationship. With regard to the payment of the income allowance, it is appropriate to determine the amount to which the deposit is not charged, given that the income should be refunded to students with a lower income than the limit at the end of the year. And that is now the proposed amount of 100,000 tolars. We also consider that the existing law sets a specific personal relief ceiling for students amounting to a million two hundred thousand SITs if all its revenues do not exceed one million six thousand SITs. That exemption stems from the point of view that very few beneficiaries reach incomes above that limit. However, the proposal by the proposer for a progressive scale would mean that beneficiaries of a special personal allowance compared to those who do not have the right to such relief would have a fair share of EUR 2 million in gross income of EUR 80 000. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we are aware of the fact that it will be necessary to improve the area of scholarship in order to allow students to focus more on the study and have less care for daily bread. However, studies have shown that under 15 hours a week, undergraduate work does not affect studies. We must admit that the way of student work that we know in our country is specific and in all the controversy and debates that have developed in the last period, we are increasingly finding that this way allows for a number of irregularities that employers, student services and why they should not be students. It is not surprising, therefore, that today some student services have abnormally large assets, that there is a grey economy, and it is clear to everyone that for the company the work of students is the most cost-effective form of employment, as a student who receives 100,000 tolars of net salary costs the company together with taxes and contributions of 115,000 tolars and a worker with a contract of employment would cost him as much as 219,000 tolars. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we believe that student work should be more limited, as this would force the employer to employ only students after completion of the study, and it will also be necessary to introduce more control and control over student work. All these facts show that today we are facing a broader problem involving many spheres and factors, and not just student work taxation, so the government will have to make appropriate solutions in this area. As I said in the introduction, our parliamentary group will support the bill, of course with the two amendments proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice welcome to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Colleagues and colleagues! Respectable students! Members of the Slovenian People's Party, when we had an interview with representatives of the student organisation during the winter, we expected that students' understanding of the effort to amend the law on incomes would be a comprehensive amendment to the law. In view of the fact that the student organisation has decided to collect sufficient support on the basis of constitutional law as well as the law and rules of procedure of the national assembly, it has decided and tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income and has put it into practice, we have actively participated in both the committee and in further discussions with the government and the representatives of the student organisation. And at this point, I can say and welcome the decision of both the student organisation and the governments to sit down and discuss that they had reached a partial solution to the Income Act and that they also agreed that all the open issues raised last year with the adoption of the Income Act would be resolved in a comprehensive revision of tax legislation. I would now like to try to substantiate the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on individual articles. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the deletion of Article 1 for the following reasons. We believe that it is a basic purpose and I am sure that students too are studying, but not working through student services. And according to the Lisbon strategy, which foresees a reduction in educational time, so that students are likely to be able to even master at 25, 26 years of age in the future, we do not feel that there is any need for a limitation or age limit. However, we expect that, for example, if this is medicine, we will be able to take this into account when the income law is re-examined. With regard to the regressive scale of taxation or non-taxation, I do not think we should make exceptions. The same scales shall apply to all employees on salaries and income payments, the same scales shall apply to eligibility for child allowances, the same scales shall apply to the acquisition of a scholarship, one or another, the same scales shall also apply to the payment of the cadastral income and so on. You get one tolar, you get one tolar, and you get one tax rate. For this reason, as it is said, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the government to delete Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act. With regard to Article 2nd. We have already advocated a solution in this article in interviews with representatives of the student organisation, as well as on the working body, in the sense that in this article we could talk about the non-payment of income in the amount that parents can claim as tax relief under the basic income law. I think it's a million 156 grand right now. For this reason, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the Government's amendment to Article 2 which replaces the number 74,000 non-payment of income to the amount of 100,000, which means approximately the relief as already envisaged in the basic income law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you, Ambassador Bajc. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! It was in the middle of last year when the previous National Assembly passed the Income Act. The then proposeder, the government of the Republic of Slovenia, spoke of an elastic law, a quality tax law that touched all areas of life in our society. Unfortunately, today we see, or better than 1.1.2005, that marriage was bad. Today we have met with one segment of corrections, corrections to the work that talks about student work. From this place at least on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, I must congratulate the 5,000 voters who signed the bill and thus show that they can enter the legislative process despite the ignorance of the Slovenian government or, better said, the Slovenian policy. I would like to point out that we would like to assess that, in order to avoid the amendment of the law, or to prevent today's adoption with only one element, if our finance minister, Mr Bajuk, were more elastic, and if he would agree to speak with the representatives of the student organisation, and if his consent reflected the acceptance of the content offered to us today by 5,000 voters and voters. Unfortunately, Mr Bajuk was not prepared to meet and Mr Bajuk would not be ready to listen to the needs of students or student organisations during the time of the creation of this law. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that, in the case of dialogue, where we believe it would be necessary, today's bill could not only be avoided, but, more importantly, be improved in this situation. In view of the fact that the proposal for a law, at least according to our assessment, demonstrates the non-lifelessness of the previous bill or of the existing law, which was given, as I said, at the time of its adoption in 2005, the three moments prove. First of all, today's situation, which is due to the current law, is the country's interest-free lending by students, which is totally unacceptable. Secondly, the indifference of the country to the study obligations to which it includes, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the issue of the period of study; and thirdly, the legal leave - stressing, leaving - control over student work. However, the proposed law that we are considering today improves two of these negative elements, which I have just mentioned, according to our assessment. As far as the third element is concerned, this is the period of study or as the Minister said in his presentation, so that the law does not provide for a age limit, and I must say again that according to our assessment there is such a deficit in the law - it is true that it is performing, but only as a result of the lack of willingness of the finance minister under agreement. When we met with representatives of investors in the SNS Group, they told us that their solution was also a controversial issue in hand, but of course they could not be included in the normal legislative procedure. So in order to bind this period, which has been exposed to criticism, I think from the two speakers in front of me, to bind to the period of study in a particular direction. This is an assessment in the National Party in order to meet the latter, possibly the negative element in the field of student work. From this point of view, at least within the framework of the parliamentary group, we would like to highlight the emerging, dilemma or problem; this is a problem of universal communication between the ministry or the Ministry body, which is specifically established to lead the communication, and between the so-called student organisation or the student population. The fact is that, despite the establishment of this body, a meeting between them has not yet taken place or at least during the period when the proposal for a law has been tabled. We will, of course, support the proposal within the National Party. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is up to the law-maker whether he supports them or not, and we will follow that in the National Party. In the final stage, it is necessary to be aware that laws are passed for the benefit of the people and not for the sake of the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u15	We continue the debate. Here comes the presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group. Mr. Ambassador Rezman. I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. It probably doesn't tell us to do it again, but it's only right that we might say something that wasn't explicitly written. Today we are and will hear some very similar reasons why individual parliamentary groups will support a proposal that has not been so unitedly supported until recently. What remains hidden is probably the motive for this support, which will certainly be given today. That is why I would like to say what our Member's position is, the DeSUS Group's, because it has some history since the Members first visited us and we have provided support, to the support we have provided on the home labour body, and to the support we will maintain today. We have no particular demagogic and propaganda reasons to do so, nor will we do so for the sake of other, more acute measures being announced. We simply think that our position, our position, is one that holds back. But I do not approve of certain positions, and it is right to say that we do not approve of the holding of a father who has just held a son of God, but just before that, he was "left" until he resisted. So I want to say that what I am talking about today has been really caused by the fact that some injustice has been committed in the past year or that it has not been sufficiently thought out when the legislation has changed, and we cannot today for this reason at least temporarily until autumn. If I make it a little easier or metaphorically put it, today we're on the juvie exam, the government has fallen, and the students and students are doing the correctional work. I am sure that this exam will be done, at least this year, it will last, and we will meet again in the autumn. We support efforts for two fundamental reasons. First of all, because some ratings have been taken away by some standard. And our view is that it does not show that we take away what has been achieved, that it shows what has been insufficiently done or badly done to upgrade and correct. The second thing that should be at least a fundamental guide for our Group of Members is that, while we are correcting when we want to help correct individual mistakes, we mean that those who do not have all the levers of power in their hands should also be helped through parliamentary procedure. Since we have promised not to repeat what has already been said, let me just repeat that we have supported even the 113-thousand-thousand price to which the deposit is not to be paid and at the same time honestly say that it is necessary to consider in further procedures or this year how to deal with similar tax burdens. Students and students, I don't think, are looking for any special and unjustifiable privileges either. So, because of what I have said on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members, we will also support what has been coordinated with the proponents.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Ambassador Boyan Starman, may I see your payphone?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of students and the Ministry of Finance. We are talking about a special tax relief, which already in 1993 in the Income Law was made possible for students and students to lower their tax threshold by means of this relief and thus ensure better conditions for obtaining work. This was the case until 2004, when the new Income Act was adopted, which is a relief, we are talking about a special relief, a general relief of 11% of the average personal income in Slovenia, an additional 40% of the average personal income in Slovenia, which was 21.5. I would like to say what has not yet been said that students have organised themselves in the same way as now and have requested amendments to the Income Act, which was also amended in July 2004, where the general allowance has risen to a million 668,000 to a million 200,000 tolars and the deposit has decreased from 25% to 12.5% for no more than 74,000 tolars. This was, of course, corrected and this is what has been used since 1.1.2005. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party do not want to have any influence on the deterioration of the student situation. I think that, while a special tax relief is only the tip of the iceberg, from which, in practice, students have very little benefit. They've got other people's benefits. They have employers, student services. Under such conditions, students have only a better chance of getting this job. Even when we look at the scope of this work, as I mentioned earlier, 150,000 students applied practically on average on an average of 484,000 tolars in 2003. This thing, when we calculate this amount, is about 73 billion dollars. And that's when we listen to different ads about how many students get net for their work, 500, 600, 700, in exceptional cases even more, that's about 100 million hours of work -- done by students. If we divide them into these 150,000, it is said that students perform extraordinary work on average 700, 800 hours a year, which, previously heard, does not allow a normal study. I think it would be necessary, and it is right for students to seek that part of these concessions, which the State gives away, is part of the money that the State withdraws from special tax relief and also students have no other protections, does not pay social contributions, pension contributions and so on, it would be wise to provide any further and different changes in these further discussions. We also support and are pleased that a compromise has been found between the government and students, that Article 1 of the Law is deleted and considered as part of the preparation and amendment of the Income Act within this special group, and that up to 100,000 tolars are not paid up to this amount. It is true that from the beginning we could not understand why the deposit is paid if we know that it must be returned. If we have given relief, I think it should be the sense to collect the deposit, of course, in that the deposit is as close as possible to the final account. Here, however, it was known in advance that practically the final account would be completely different than the amount previously collected. It is said that it is only about lending, and we believe that this proposal is acceptable and we will also support it, the amendment to Articles 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u19	The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u20	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ulčar, representatives of the student organisation, as proposer, MEPs and Members, absent Minister of Finance, Mrs Erjavec and Mrs Ferlež. Nicely greeted! On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I will present my position on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act and the individual amendments. First of all, I would like to point out that we do not oppose the adoption of law in the LDS. No reform is such that it cannot be fixed yet, and with some arguments, in particular with regard to Article 1 which the students have submitted, we can accept this. However, we will oppose the adoption of the amendment, as proposed by the Government for the deletion of Article 1, in particular by presenting why we consider the deletion of this Article to be inappropriate in terms of transparency. We do not oppose and welcome the agreement reached by the government and the student organisation to increase the deposit to 100,000 dollars. Last but not least, we have proposed that the non-payable deposit should amount to 113 thousand tolars, but under one condition that this 113 thousand exemption would pay a minimum of 1 tolar or, depending on the system, 1% of the deposit. Why are we not completely opposed to the law? First of all, because, of course, in the basic Income Law with specific provisions of the legislation, we have actually allowed today to have amendments to the Income Act, when we allowed up to 74 000 advances or the National Assembly adopted the semi-lowest advance on income. Nor can we oppose the law, because if the new government has decided or believes that it has enough money and is willing to "roll" on the left and right, then the new government cannot stop anything from doing so. It will stop the new government, especially when the money is gone. We have already heard that due to the amendment adopted today to Article 2 the liquidity and revenue shortfall of the state budget will amount to at least 10 billion tolars. However, what we are more concerned about is that, after we have experienced disagreement on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy with the Government's proposal that Article 1 be deleted, the article proposed by the students themselves, and when we ourselves Members of the Liberal Democracy have proposed that this article should be opened with the aim of agreeing on a common solution to improve transparency until the adoption of the law, we regret, of course, the Government's opinion that this Article 1 simply deletes total ignorance. We don't understand these governments. We do not understand the government that it does not want this law to empower the Minister of Finance to regulate the way students and students work by the tax administration and the inspectorate for work with a special regulation. Students themselves point out that the problem of student work is to a large extent a problem of control over student services, because otherwise the number of employees in student services would increase from 600 to over 1200. Why, as some Members have found for themselves, would some services be large shares or profitable companies? It is unclear to us why the government is not more transparent, why the government at its meeting simply says that it deletes Article 1 which allows for more transparency in everything it wants. With regard to Article 2, you have agreed, of course, that the deposit, which is tax-free, is 100,000, but you have, in particular, made a second mistake in regulating the public financial system, in our opinion. The first mistake was when you gave up last year's richest Slovenians and Slovenians and significantly reduced your capital gains. Today, the government gives way to the second time that it excludes minimum fees for students from the income system. In Slovenia last year, at 263 billion advances, we returned 26.3 billion tolls of overpaid advances to more than 100,000 Slovenians. These Slovenians and students are now in an unequal position, so of course we will not support the amendment of the government to Article 1, but we will not fully oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the student organization, representatives of the Ministry! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the changes in the income law. We Social Democrats have committed ourselves to acting constructively in areas that will help bring Slovenia into the most developed countries. We believe that the knowledge society, whose main creators are educated people, can sustain and increase the competitiveness of our society in the long run. So we will support the change, even though the proposal is partial and eliminates the injustice of only one social group, which has been more persistent, and the government has simply feared its future moves if it did not listen to them. The fact that the new Income Act, which entered into force on 1 January this year, had a strong impact on the field of student work and that, with its changes, the social situation of the students would deteriorate, we knew in the parliamentary benches, the government knew and knew the finance minister when we adopted the new Income Law at the end of last year. In December last year, the government and the finance minister decided not to favour any interested group and, with this excuse and argument, supported by the government majority in this national assembly, all of these groups received relief or benefits. This is how they took advantage of students, culturers, creators, craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, journalists and others. So today's debate and the amendment of the law could have been avoided if the government and the finance minister had listened to both students and some other groups at the end of last year. None of the above were willing to talk or exchange views. And more than that, the finance minister even said at the end of last month. [[Quote]] : "The government opposes partial infringements of tax law, as the system is then completely undermined. It is impossible that at the moment when we are all trying to take over the euro, certain changes could threaten the overall management of public funds." [[End of quote.]] We must therefore first find that the situation in which politics, i.e. the government, changes its views daily, is a poor policy and it is difficult to talk about strategic orientations, even less about the future. This increases the uncertainty of the political, economic and social environment, which could otherwise be the direction of the government, but it certainly is not and cannot be the direction of the people of the Republic of Slovenia, and this certainly is not the direction of the Social Democrats. So, I want and I expect the government or its ministers to keep their word for once, if not for the first time, for the third time. On this occasion, we also point out that the criticism that flies about having a poorly regulated scholarship policy, building a home, repressing transport and the like is justified, and that these problems have a much greater impact on the social and other environment, which is unfriendly and unfavorable to students, students and adolescents than the problem of student work. However, it is a fact that student work for many students in these circumstances is an emergency exit and an important social adjustment. In this respect, we note that the Coalition Treaty also states that the government or coalition will give greater emphasis and attention to the scholarship policy. However, as it appears from the priorities so far, this area will not be a good time. In these circumstances, the only solution to the burden of student work is to allow the country to study as many young people as possible. So, regardless of the two-face game of the government and the minister, we will support this law because we believe in people because we believe in their abilities and we believe that investment in people and knowledge is the right political direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the articles and amendments tabled. I will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 17.5.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the government. Please indicate this by raising your hands by the Members you wish to discuss. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Zagorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have a feeling, and I don't think it's cheating on me that it's like yesterday or today's knowledge of impact. Yesterday, we can call it "spar program", at least according to the government's belief, at primary school it was based on "spar program" in knowledge. Today we are considering or will consider the student proposal. At some point, the former government wanted knowledge or students to be the one to lend it. Of course, we cannot allow this in the Slovenian National Party. The European Union, of which Slovenia is a full member, is somehow encouraging and forcing us to create a knowledge-based society, you have the same thing, colleagues and colleagues, written in a coalition treaty, and with your actions all these facts, which I have just mentioned, are increasingly denying. The fact that students - and I'm sorry that this part of the text is meant for the finance minister - has been kept waiting or you haven't found time to sit with them at the table for as long as it hasn't come to those extreme time limits, doesn't do you any good. Not least, when you finally did this and tore away these very important few minutes or hours to meet with those who will create the future of this country, you found consensus very quickly. You see, it's not that hard. You just have to sit down and listen to someone. But speaking of amendments, let me say a few words about both amendments, not just the amendment to Article 1. As far as I am aware, you have reached an agreement between the government and the student organisation, on the one hand, the government has committed itself to taking students' demands into account in the preparation of the new income law, I think, somewhere in the fall. I must say that I am so skeptical until such an agreement, you have already promised so much, so little so far; but let us be surprised. Last but not least, we will give you a chance to prove it, but believe me, we will monitor very precisely how many of these promises you will actually keep. However, as far as the amendment to Article 2 is concerned, I can say that it is better than nothing or better than it was in the previous proposal. You have found some middle-level solution that, in my opinion, is far from reaching what students would really want and what would really be appropriate for them, but, because I say, you've agreed, you've sat down at the table, so I'm not going to argue with the amendments myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Rugl to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Sasha Pece. A nice greeting to all present especially to the representative of the student organization. I am pleased that our government, together with the students, has found a common language and have also found an appropriate solution, here I am thinking mainly of the amount of SIT 100 000, for which students will not have to pay income up to this value. Unfortunately, at this point, I could also point out some shortcomings or disorder and exploitation of student work, which is not particularly an honor to the student organisation - here I am thinking mainly of some exploitation of this. We all know what this is about. In this area, I believe that the student organisation itself should do more to protect its own name. Of course, as I have already said, I am pleased to welcome these common solutions and, of course, I will also be happy to support these amendments of the government. And I want students to have a lot of success in their studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you for your discussion. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Janz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the students. Of course, I'd be happy to support these two amendments. But is it true when I listened to the debate when it was said that if someone did not understand this government - how would anyone understand the previous government that had adopted the law? Dear colleagues, fellow Members, this income law has so tightened that even the best financiers can't explain how certain things are sitting in it. And so the first step, when the students, together with the government, the ministry, found some sort of minimal correction of stupidity, is here today and I will gladly support it. True, there are still many things ahead of us. I also had a question on Monday about small vineyards. Total nonsense, what it says in there to destroy Slovenian, I would say, a national story in such a different way. I think here - and, of course, I would ask that the government solve this whole thing as soon as possible, in the autumn and before, this story. Because this touches on every citizen, many groups of individuals affected by this Income Act, and I hope that these corrections will achieve what our citizens rightly expect from this assembly and this new Slovenian government. I support the student work for sure, and I also used it as a student with pleasure, although not so much for the basic costs, a little bit more for the improvement I needed at the time, but I think it is also fine, and not least as an ex-employer I have very much benefited from the work of the students, was very pleased with them and I think that this matter is more than positive. However, it is also what my colleague said before me, but unfortunately these things have been overused in the wrong sense, both by employers, unfortunately, as by students. For they work on these journeys, both of which are different, which have nothing to do with the student. I'm sorry. This may not be the student’s fault; it may be the fault of some of the services that do not do well or do bad things. I am thinking mainly of inspections that allow such and other under the cover of student travels to perform such and different works. I think that some things will have to be stepped up here so that students do not work mostly in certain service activities today. I mean hospitality and other things, because after all, there are no more regular jobs. This country is not proud, there are no contributions, there are no taxes, and not least, but it is a pleasure for the employer in particular, because the work here is so much less taxed. However, this is a set of issues which the government certainly also, I believe that it understands and monitors, but I am pleased that this story has finally been brought into line, that it will not be necessary to go to the street, and there to demand some rights to be found here, in some way a constant way in some conversation and that a bit of one and the other will be relaxed and a step will be taken. I hope that there will be more steps like this as soon as possible, in this common story of the Income Act, which is totally insolvent to this Slovenia and to these citizens of this Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the student organisation, Ministry of Finance! I will, of course, personally support the two proposed amendments to the law. I am pleased that Article 1 is deleted as this gives time and opportunity for a wider discussion within the working group to prepare tax policy changes. However, I would warn students here that this tax relief is the top of the iceberg. I think we need to find more ways. I agree with you that studying with us is expensive, and our standard is that special conditions must be taken care of. Unfortunately, however, what the state denies by not charging taxes on this work, not charging contributions and all that, of course, is very insignificant, as I said before, only affects a better job search position. Otherwise, all these huge reliefs are, I think if we compare student work with regular work, the country here gives up 70 billion tolars. That's a lot of money. I think it would be very useful and wise to negotiate not only on this law, but also on a general level, but on the status of students it is possible to provide one part of it to get to you. I think it would be wise to get in the form, as a student service, to intervene 10% and then to do something for the work of student organisations and so on, but perhaps it would be wise for the employer to also be obliged to put some money into a special scholarship fund. Then some of this would come to you. Now, practically, students and students are doing cheap work and doing virtually unfair competition with those employees. Employees, if we compare the lowest guaranteed salary of 117,000 SIT received by someone, and we deduct contributions and taxes from it, we come up with 80,000 net money. If we add contributions and regresses and all of these things, of course on the lowest wage, a gross amount of 117,000, it is the cost of work per hour of 1,200. But I can see that students and students are doing business for 500, 600 tolars, so the whole difference, what you choose here, all these reliefs, is being cashed by others. This is where we need to find ways. But, of course, even as I mentioned earlier, the number, the number, the number of these hours, is converted into hours, 100 million hours, as I mentioned earlier, and 700 hours into one of the 150,000 hours, that's impossible. So, at least 70%, 80% is just fictitious transfer through your travels when you give up your right to others to exploit it. I don't think it's normal that there's not enough control over these travel tips. Of course, this makes your own situation worse, where this right, which we are now virtually returning to 93 or 94, you have chosen a practical return, perhaps even worse than it was. It would be wise to think about it. If, in fact, students and students have to work in businesses and everywhere, it is not surprising that the deadline for completion of the study is prolonged. He's studying a lot because they don't get a job. This is also a general matter. A whole range of things and economic matters need to be linked here. In any case, I will support things to at least get them back to their original state. I would also like to say that I call for further discussions on the conditions and status of students to be actively involved in order to actually improve these conditions. I think that the issue of literature, which has been mentioned, is more expensive for us, that subsidies could be introduced in some way. In particular, I would point out here an uneven position for colleges, not only in higher schools, but also in secondary schools. They are practical here because there are no more scholarships, very neglected people who are more from faraway places because they have to pay for transportation or these things. If we want to be a knowledge-based society, it is necessary to ensure the conditions of study in every way and allow those who want to study to study as quickly as possible and to introduce this knowledge into our society and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you. I invite Ambassador Uhan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! The president of the Slovenian student organisation wrote that the government believes that students want to enrich themselves at the time of the study. In Novi Slovenije, we do not feel this way about making students rich with work. However, the student services were enriched by the commissions they gave, which they received through the issue of student travel. Let's not close our eyes here, because they were buying companies, hotels, etc. Quality control over the issue and the work of the student service would be very on the spot. Maybe it's through the employment office and stuff. I agree that a student's work should not be taxed up to a certain limit or payment of an advance of up to 100,000. As far as relief is concerned. Whether you exceed 1 tolar or not, you will calculate how much you earned that year and decide whether it is worth going across that border. With regard to age restrictions. I support the government's proposal. The study should be aimed at studying and not working and solving social problems. This must be regulated within the framework of the scholarship policy, social policy. The Bologna process, supported by the students, also involves shortening the study. According to statistics, the extension of student years in Slovenia has increased in recent years. And the first prospectors are on average at 27. This is at least three years longer than when I studied for myself when our first goal was to study and find a regular job. I support both government amendments. With regard to the current government and obedience to students, however, I would say that the current government has listened and agreed substantially, compared with what the previous government has prepared, which has prepared all of this, which we are now correcting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you, Member. I call on Ambassador Sok to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! First of all, let me say that in New Slovenia we will support the amendment to Article 1, so that Comrade Squeakl will have no reason to speak here about how something "the ground" rules. On this occasion, however, I would also like to say the following, and as a starting point, I took an occasion, one record. Some of the students came to Socrates and he said, "Teacher, I need to tell you one big news." So he stopped him and he said, "Is what you're gonna say true?" He said, "No, I guess not, I didn't check." He says, "If you haven't checked and if it isn't true, is that what you're going to say, at least well-intentioned?" The student says, "No, where, it's not well-meaning, it's even bad." And Socrates says, "Look, if it's not true and it's not well-intentioned, is it at least socially beneficial?" He says, "No, not socially useful." Well, and then Socrates says, "If it's not real and it's not good-for-nothing and it's not good-for-nothing, then we're not going to talk about it." I've told you this to actually express some form of protest here. In fact, to share such a leaflet and the poster and the current minister, who had nothing to do with the formation of this law, even as the opposition MP objected, to display as, the image shows how, and along with the writing of the seventh command of God "Don't steal", is followed by "Don't lie", it is kind of said, representatives of students, I am glad that you are here, irresponsiblely, irresponsiblely and maliciously. Such moves are neither real nor good, but at the very least they are socially beneficial. First time. Why aren't they real? They are not true because you, on behalf of the student organisation on 12 and 13 May 2004, have negotiated with the previous government with Mr Robb, what kind of income law will be passed. I can read here a proposal for a decision which reads: "In the framework of the negotiations, a compromise has been reached for students to withdraw from their intention if the government undertakes to propose amendments and supplements to the Income Act following its publication in the manner agreed in the framework of the negotiations." And what you've negotiated, it's in the law that entered into force with 1.1.2005. That's right. So six months after that, you share leaflets that say "don't steal" and someone else who has nothing to do with what you've said, in the image of the devil. If this is true, it is not real, and because it is not true of course it cannot be well - intentioned. And then there's the third one. Your request that the study be extended, namely that this student work can be carried out by the age of 30, cannot be socially beneficial for a number of reasons. I studied the vet myself, which lasted five years. I had a family during college, but I didn't get an apartment in a dorm because I was the son of a bullet who worked at some hardware store in Innsbruck, so we could live on a farm. But by the time I was 26 years old, I had completed my studies. So anyone who wants to study can also finish if it's a wish. Prolonging and taking advantage of this matter as proposed cannot be socially beneficial. After that, you can also calculate if someone starts working at 30 years of age, when then when the retirement period is extended, he will retire. We must strive to shorten our studies, not increase them, because we have one of the longest studies. And there's one more thing. With these frightening words from the representatives of the student organisation - not all students, but representatives of the student organisation - how the students are threatened if the government does not comply with all these proposals and so on, the information published is correct: in 2003 about 150,000 students and students who worked through student services earned on average 484,000 tolars. This means, the vast majority, it is said, 98% of students earned less than 1.6 million tolars, which is what the law places as a threshold for applying a reduced base. 98%! So everything you do is done on behalf of 2%. Who are you in this 2%? So, the poster was designed by Matevž Frangež, co-owner of company B, if of course the information in the media is correct. E.ONE [[?]] From Maribor, Mr. is the former president of the student organisation of the University of Maribor, and currently he is the leader of the Council of Social Democrats in the Maribor City Council and also a member of the Council of Social Democrats. Co-founder of B. E.ONE is a student service company d.o.o. from Maribor or its notorious director and owner Marjan Krajnc, known for his very controversial acquisition of the property of Voda Julian. I hope that all those students who are working, as Mr Starman said earlier, are monitoring this and will once again really start to wonder what is happening to those 10%. Also, the decision in this National Assembly to allocate 2% of the student work to the construction of student homes, which you have negotiated with Mr Gabr, even under a concession, was, of course, wrong from the point of view of the country as such. Students' homes must be financed by the State in a different way than by the student work. What students do, then they really have to think that they can fix their social status and that it makes it easier for them to study, not that these things are then played in different ways. I was once in Pirano - and I conclude with this - and there a friend showed me a youth hotel, and he says, look, the owner of this hotel is at least 31% Dominik S. Černjak. I asked how such a young man could have come to this. He says that's what I'm asking myself, but I don't know. Well, there's a lot to clear up. And I agree, student work control is going to have to get a lot tighter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u35	My colleague, Commissioner Squeakl, I didn't see you mentioned. You were?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u36	Mr. Sok, can you look at the magnetogram, he mentioned that I said something was "top." Indeed, the "tala" Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the new government of the "tala". It also has 64 billion revenue in 2005 due to such a poorly implemented tax reform as you said, and now it will distribute about 40 billion dollars more, while canceling what you will adopt today, 10 billion liquidity revenues in the state budget. In this respect, of course, I have criticised and, of course, we will object to the fact that the government that advocates greater transparency is the same government that has criticised or the same minister who, as the chairman of the budgetary and other public finances monitoring commission, has criticised the previous ministry in order to prepare a non-transparent budget, this same minister has sent the same budget balance to the state budget equally untransparent. In this context, I would like to say to Mr Soku that the problem of what is proposed in this law is not what is proposed to be an advance of 100,000, we have proposed that the exemption should be 113 000, but should the 1% or 1 tolar be intended to reintroduce the student work into the income system. Since there are 160,000 taxpayers in the Slovenian income system and 779 thousand of them out of a million, according to 2004 figures, are credited by the state budget. Of this they have, if you want, 14.1 billion Slovenian municipalities receiving 35% of their overpaid income and 65% or 26.1 billion government budgets. From this we currently finance the expenditure of the state budget. This is a system that, by amending the Income Law, tried to include student work and other work in a single system. What you will accept today, of course, if what is currently proposed, as the only amendment, remains, is that you will oppose the Minister of Finance ensuring greater transparency and will be in favour of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u37	Ambassador Cwickl, I interrupt you now. You've used your three minutes. You've already used or exceeded the contents of the replica. As you probably know what the replica is meant for, I'm interrupting. Are you going to break up alone or am I going to shut you down?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u38	I will, one sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u39	We're moving on. This time, exceptionally, I'll allow you a replica of the replica. Please, if you stick to the contents of the replica and the time for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u40	Absolutely. First of all, colleague Squeakle, payment of 12 and a half or 25% and then a refund, according to our estimate, is unnecessary administration. Of course, the costs of this can be higher than the annual inflation rate envisaged. However, if you want control, what you have said can be over one tolar, and control can also be made possible differently, for example through the employment agency. That's one way to go, too. And one more thing. Nothing about this government is "the ground," but it's normalizing some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u41	We continue the debate. Member Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u42	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about very complicated matters, on the one hand, and, of course, on the other hand, about a fireman's solution. I must welcome the fact that students have managed to unite their forces and in some way show the problem that is being dealt with primarily by those who are socially weak. But all the data that was presented, and on the board, and also in the daily newspaper, shows that students don't have much of their work. That they mainly have employers and intermediaries. To exploit them in many ways. In addition, many employers also use students for channeling, for various transactions that are certainly not covered in all these tax reports and in income analysis, and in all that people know, so we know that a lot of tolar flows through a student name and is thus cleaned up. It's just regular laundromats. This has already been discussed in previous discussions, so I will not repeat everything that has been said. However, it is necessary to regulate these matters once and for all, and not so that students would still be those who would cause social dumping and destroy the labour market, but by being adequately paid for their work, in order to be properly rewarded, that their work would also contribute to Slovenia's overall growth. It is true that their first task is to study and that the study time is prolonged, but it is nothing unusual. I think that this is in the whole of the European Union, so it goes on for various reasons. But the other thing is that school years are actually devoted to clean work. According to data, some are as burdensome as those who are regularly employed, of course for much less pay and for much less status. The analysis does not talk about this, but students tell themselves how they are exploited, exploited, how their work goes in ten hours a day, and how they are treated. This should also be asked by the student organisation when protecting its members, not only about what it receives from the remaining money. I'll back it up, but it's only until autumn. There's a limit. I will support this because I am convinced that there are so many students who live off of paying and expensive books and relatively expensive lives during studies, but I am not impressed with such ad hoc emotional solutions. But above all, it seems to me that it is unworthy of students to be a channel.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next one, please, Mr Aurelio Juri, if you stop making a phone call, or have a conversation outside. For the last 5 minutes you've been on the phone, and in accordance with the meeting management agreement, I'm obliged to warn you about this and ask if you can continue your conversation on the phone outside. The head of the parliamentary group, Mr Potrč, may I ask that your Member cease to use his mobile phone during the plenary session. Mr. Run, thank you very much. We continue the debate. Ambassador Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will certainly insist on the facts and content and words I have spoken on the competent home committee. I'm saying we're saving the student organization and the students with the wrong law. I warn the government to be aware of the fact that it is solving one segment, and the law on changes and additions to the Income Act is linked to several segments of people. From this place today, I remind the government to be aware of these words when another group, another segment of people, will arrive in three months and demand the same way of rescue as this one. Instead of writing a law on scholarships, a law on students, you solve student problems with the income law. I claim that this law is water on a mill to employers who are a purely classic example of the capitalist exploitation of students who create extra profits at the expense of the work of students. However, if this law is already written by the government, it should also be written in this law that the employer is obliged to give, for example, 10% of the funds for all the money paid to the student principal to the student fund. Write this down in this law. No, no, no, no, no! I'm saying that a few student services are a clean money launderer and they're the richest. What if he gives student service to students who come looking for a tip for work? What does he give them? He takes 10% and puts them in his pocket. This needs to be addressed in the Income Act. And what is the result of both the employer and the service? That students are pure exploiters, that they are actually forced to work and that they suffer from their basic work. Instead of allowing the students to work properly and paying them for their work to bring into practice and create and work at the institutes, they are simply and simply exploiting the theory they receive at school. That's the truth. I know, colleagues and colleagues, students who are 47 years old and who go to work with a student guide. If anyone explains this logic to me, I'll be very grateful. I am referring to the amendment to Article 1, no matter why it is written, no matter what happens. We agreed on a committee that the study age must be limited. It has to be. There's been a change. I object to the amendment of Article 1, and I will be strictly against it. As for the second amendment, my respectable colleague and colleague, let us all be ashamed! You know what we are? Common merchants. Both the amounts proposed, 113 000, the student proposal, were calculated on some basis, another proposal made by the government, 74,000, was also calculated on another basis. And now we're buying. It's a shame, we'd have left at least the 113 grand if it was like the students said. What does that mean from 113 to 70, 70 to 80, and 80 to 100? It's a common store and shame on us. It's normal politicization, it's normal politics, it's nothing else. Why is this amendment now, but why isn't it worth 113 grand and something else, as the students themselves predicted? Why? Don't explain 250 or 23 million financial differences to me later. It's not true, it's politics, it's mere shopping with students. We all suck at them today, but in reality we are not honest enough to look them in the eye. Because, last but not least, this amount will have to be taxed once. If not in the beginning, in the end. That's the truth. And shame on us all. We now look forward to the government's promise of what it will do in September and so on. She's not gonna do anything. It is not right to solve the real problems of students in this way, it is wrong!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you. The Member of the Staff has the floor. Mr. Squeakle procedurally, please. I apologize, Member of the Staff.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u46	Mr Pece, I had to call you now because you did not give me a procedural option earlier when you gave Mr Barovic your word, despite the fact that Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure states that a Member wishing to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure should be given a word as soon as he requests and should not speak about it for more than three minutes. But what I wanted to say is that maybe it's already a belt, and it doesn't say that we don't use cell phones in the National Assembly. It is true that you have suggested that some, especially the President of the National Assembly, should prevent the use of mobile phones, then I suggest we stop using the computer. What you said did not hold, no agreement, no decision at the College of the President of the National Assembly was that Members and Members should not use mobile phones and I wanted to protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u47	It probably doesn't make sense for me to comment on your latest performance. I am in charge of the session, and as long as I am in charge of it, I will not let Members of the plenary, when another Member speaks, interfere with the conduct of their phone calls. However, I also inform you that an agreement has been reached on 18.1.2005 to unify the conduct of the meetings of the National Assembly and I think that my rules will also be followed by the two other Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly. However, this is a common practice that stems from the previous mandate. So, Mr. Squeakle, I'm sorry I gave you my word. We're continuing our session. Member of the Staff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government or ministry, students! A positive student’s work or a student’s work has, in fact, been completely produced over the years. And some consistency, some systemicity of this has gone in the direction, as has already been said, of washing, even laundering money and as far as colleague Sok has already mentioned, of the student service Maribor, which can afford billions of purchases and even billions of investments, instead of the mechanism of student work or student work, if you like, in some public interest. Student services, if they must already be as intermediaries, if they work only in the public interest, should not generate any profits, as should all others who work in the public interest. However, since things have completely evolved, there will be a need to cut down on the measures completely elsewhere. This solution is not disputed today, and it is by no means the essence of solving problems. In my practice as a student and as a giver of work to students, it has always been designed that the student worked to correct his lack is a low scholarship or his social status, and on the other hand he acquired work and professional practice through work. And the work for students or students, with whom I worked, has always been positive, focused mainly on the direction of gaining practice, a better feeling in which direction he will then professionally specialize or how he will decide as a student for further study. Unfortunately, everything has gone beyond normal borders and I therefore call on the government to act immediately against some. I have already taken the initiative specifically for the Maribor Student Service to take action in cases where some of them have been helped by the previous ones, I would say that those responsible have obtained such a volume of work and thus such revenues as to go on billions of investments. Even for some criminal investigation and finding out how something like this is even possible, matters have matured. However, we know that in Slovenia there are many perfectly normal student services, which act as student clubs, have their student service as some kind of indirect activity and thus acquire funds for their activities and to help their members in fact. And if this is not regulated by the government and also by the student organisation, by allowing such a situation, the student organization is actually cutting itself. However, some other cases have already been warned by colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you. Member Rezman has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Actually, it would come from one of the wonderful points that I got from an interviewer in front of me. He says it was once the goal, to study and find a regular job. I ask what a new government means to regular employment and where it is actually a guarantee of regular employment. Where are the measures for the employment of young people? Forgiveness without any ground of guilt does not follow the same objective as mentioned by a fellow Member. In fact, this should be known or known mainly by members of government parties. Work experience is important, work experience gives breadth, and ultimately quality. Last but not least, hand to heart, it's hard to get a job experience at the age of 30, or only after you've finished your studies. The government is citing the possibility of abuse, and offenders must be sanctioned. Is it true that the exploitation of student work - is not the country responsible for allowing the exploitation of student work? Concessions are shared by the state. Finally, the concessions also set out the conditions for the work or functioning of student services. Let me remind you, the students themselves have proposed greater control over the grey economy of student services. The fact is, there aren't enough inspectors. Control is also supposed to be with the help of students, and so far, the minister has not found so much flexibility to nod. Are we really going to have to wait for promises or promises to be fulfilled that we know where they are going? Work, as I've already said, is important, including work during study. Let me mention that, in fact, today I was surprised to hear that the student work or students working during the course of the study represent unfair competition. I was on my own at the time of school, and when I was a student at high school, I actually worked all the time. I worked because I came from a working family, and because I had this way of getting my work experience, that I was actively spending my free time, I also deserved to be able to live better during my studies. And my mother, even though I've earned more than she's earned with a regular work salary, never once has she read that I represent unfair competition to her. But in fact, she was proud that I was actively spending my free time and that, finally, with the work experience I was getting during my studies, even after my studies, I was able to actively participate in the search for regular employment. And once again, I'm going to end up with an amendment or government promise. At the first amendment, of course, the government promised to take all the other student requirements into account towards the end of this year when it was supposed to go into a radical amendment of the Income Act or the Tax Law. This assurance, similarly assured, I will say, has been given several times in plenary sessions of the National Assembly. But since the government does not actually have sanctions for this if it fails to fulfill its promises within a certain period of time, what assurance has it made that the government will fulfill or keep its promises this time? In fact, I simply don't believe it, so in the first amendment tabled by the government, I will press the "quorum" button and watch carefully whether the government will really take into account the new legislation of the student's wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, you checked in earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I want to discuss it after my voice was taken. First of all, in the debate in the amendment to Article 1, I would like to highlight why I am going to oppose this article or the deletion of Article 1. It is necessary to go back to the discussion that took place on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in early May and to find that, because of the discussion that was held on this committee, where student work has been found to be a lot of problems, not in what students do and what they deserve, but because we know who it is, these are student services, it is of course reasonable that Article 1 of the Law, as the students have proposed, remains. The students were explained in this article, and this provision of this article is also intended to give the Minister of Finance the power to regulate the supervision of the work of students and students by the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the inspectorate of work with a special provision, which is, of course, the reason for the abuse. However, abuses occur due to ineffective inspection and the inactive role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I have to say that this is probably true by 1 January 2005. After 1 January 2005, the following happened. According to the system of income, companies had to obtain a tax number from students in addition to the fee so that they could deduct 12% or 25% of the deposit on the basis of the tax number. This has had an important impact on the reduction in the number of student travels that have been carried over. Giving someone a student guide is one thing. Give someone a student's license and a tax number, but it's a little more complicated. Because, of course, by giving someone a tax number, you're committing some kind of tax offense. The logic of the Income Act was as follows: all incomes should be taxed at approximately the same amount. And that's why we put this student work into the Income Act. Realizing that only 4 or 5% of students are such students, not those who abuse, who will actually pay their income at the end of the year, but this withdrawal has decreased. And for the first 74,000 tolars, as I know it, the deposit was reduced to half of what is paid in Slovenia by 779 thousand taxpayers. In 2003, 779 thousand taxpayers paid the country more in 2003 than they were due for 2004. And this is the income system that we know and we wanted to put student work into this income system in order to double-check: student travel and tax numbers, reduce abuse. Correctly, the students said that this is probably not enough to make sense, given the fact that a million 224 thousand passengers were issued in 2003, in 2005 there will be a few million in terms of the reduction in these travels. And because these travels are a million 200 000 and because they are dealing with more than in 2003, as many as 1269 people, and in 2002 as 698, it makes sense, of course, and we supported this, that the Minister of Finance, who supports transparency, would be given a special mandate and arrange for the supervision of the work of students and students by the two competent institutions that are involved in this work in Slovenia. That was the whole logic of the law. And students, if you remember, about six months ago, about a year ago, six months before the elections, actually, they agreed. Students signed an agreement with the previous government last summer that 12.5% of the deposit was a 74,000 right deposit. Six months later, and of course everyone would have done the same when they read the coalition contract, but of course the students found and well understood and congratulated them for the fact that, of course, it is possible, in accordance with the law on referendum and human initiative, to obtain more, a higher exemption. And, of course, that's another story. There must have been someone else in the back. Reduce this control mechanism introduced by the Income Act that a tax number should also be provided to each student traveller. We will probably hear in the government's response that this was an excessive administration, but you know, Slovenian companies are doing this for 779 thousand people, actually working for all one million 160 thousand taxpayers, of whom 779 thousand taxpayers are lending the country. That is why, of course, it was no problem for Slovenian companies, because every Slovenian company that has this set up is doing it normally. It is difficult to explain or to know all the reasons that led to this marriage. One is probably the one that makes sense to increase the withdrawal. But what we didn't understand and still don't understand today is why, on the proposal of the amendment, that the withdrawal would not be 74,000, or 100,000, but as much as 113 thousand, why students' lawyers say they don't agree that the minimum deposit would be 1 tolar or 1%. The answer is likely to be that a few million student travel tickets will be issued. In this sense, if you have already agreed, as a government, that no deposit should be made in Article 2, we do not understand those who advocate the transparency of the system, that the government has not elected a minister of finance, as the first financier in the country, as the most responsible for public transparency, to have the option to regulate this system. This is what the students suggested, and that's what we all supported on the Finance Committee. Since the government's amendment on the Committee on Finance was not adopted, then of course a lot of 'rabuke', why it was not adopted, the discussion was similar to today, and then, of course, with the understanding that this first article would make sense to correct it, we proposed on the Committee of Amendments with which we opened Article 1 at all. A week later, 10 days later, a new agreement between the student organisation, I guess, with student services, the finance minister, the deposit is higher, and we don't care about transparency. Of course, there is an answer here that this will be resolved in the context of tax reform, and I believe that Dr Kranjec will have a lot of work to do when he tries to do so and another requirement to include in the changes to the Income Act. But you know, there are currently 779,000 employees in Slovenia who, if you accept Article 2, will be in a constitutionally unequal position because they are paying an advance, even though they would not have to pay the advances. Let me also say that we have proposed one tolar for the following reason: because everyone who has more than 1,000 or less tolars to pay back, and such is 225,000 in Slovenia, this is transferred to next year. And students wouldn't have any extra payments or repayments if there were 600 grand in this million and if they paid for it, say, 12 tolars of deposit. However, I was surprised, and I am surprised today that the student organisation's lawyer at the meeting felt that they could not support such an amendment, even though it was economically better than what the government then proposed. The government proposed 100,000, we said 113,000 and at that 113,000 one percent or one tolar. This is what we estimate to be valid in this regard. And because of this, I say that the new government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has greatly criticised previous governments, how untransparent we have a system, this government has not taken advantage of this option. I've said before that we will not oppose the adoption of this law. No tax reform is such that it cannot be fixed. However, we are concerned that, by adopting this amendment to Article 1 first, and then possibly amending Article 2, in fact, a very large number of requirements will be opened for the creators of new income legislation, which will have to be taken into account in the autumn months. And in this sense, in some way, this robustness is being undermined or, if you want, some basic principles. Just one more sentence. That this so-called grossness - you pay the deposit, you get the refund - of course it was necessary and that for this to be done in 2004, you should only look at the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of public finances and public financial expenditure and in this regard also of the Public Finance Act being made in accordance with the principle of turnover. The government has made a different decision, the students have agreed to it - in particular they have agreed, I suppose, on the intermediation of student work - and since the adoption of this law we will no longer have a situation when an individual student will have to bring a tax number along with a student's travel. And I have no doubt that in the coming months, there will be no years of lobbyism or pressure from student services. So, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we not support the amendment of the Government to Article 1 so that simply Article 1 remains as it is. That the Minister of Finance may be able to join us and welcome him! - issued a regulation to ensure greater transparency of student work. This I think is in the interest of the students, I think it is in the interest of all Slovenian taxpayers, recipients of state budget funds and, last but not least, I believe that those who support or advocate that we have a more transparent public financial system in Slovenia. I will be discussing Article 2 when we open the debate to Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you. Just to be clear. As part of your implementation of the replica, you have no sound or speech, because you have used the time available for the replica, that is 3 minutes. We continue the debate. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have recently witnessed a statement made by the President or the first meeting of the Prime Minister with this information that the government must deal with the large number of companies in bankruptcy in the first sessions. Of course, the added value in this state in the country is not growing, but it is somehow falling. This is mainly because students are part of our society, who are somehow helping themselves. We know that the hour paid for the net payment of 400 to 500 tolars. Indeed, it is an unsustainable situation here to in some way lend to the state by essentially treating it in a way that is the same as all other citizens, of course, to them, irrespective of how much the total annual amount of their work they have done. Student services, many of you have talked about how they get rich and so on, how much they have extra income, what their enormous earnings are. I am also joining these claims, but I would say to what they should serve, unfairly and unjustly to the students that they are not returning this money to the students. Be it in terms of the invitation to tender for young students' scholarships, for the construction of student homes, part of this profit could also be returned to them in this form. In this discussion we have today, we must not forget the students. They are themselves in some way helping and coming from many working families, in which economic status none of us would like to be. We know that working wages are lower and that today, in fact, studies are already kind of privileged. Not all families can do it. If we are talking about the new added value and the State's obligation to provide students with work, then we should also talk about the country's obligation to provide normal conditions for students' studies. These normal conditions do not appear to exist, as is shown by the lack of their living conditions. We know that student housing is not enough to have fewer or more applications than those available. I welcome in my own way the ingenuity and the willingness of those who can help themselves. Therefore, it is also possible to conclude in this debate that we may not have done all the work as we should. As the colleague said, the law or amendments could be better. My colleague Barovic spoke about the fact that we are actually going shopping, and that we do not really understand the problems that plague this population. I join this opinion myself, and I think that we should do more in this mandate in order to resolve this issue in an integrated manner and not just put out the problem that is currently ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you. Among the debaters, it is now the last time among Members to report, this is Cyril Testen. However, I would like to ask if there is still an interest in applying among Members to let me know that we know how to plan the continuation of the meeting. Mr. Kumer, you're still here. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers. With regard to the student work, I would say first that we will support or support the two proposed amendments. As for the work itself, I would first point out to Mr Barovic that the law was not proposed by the government but by the student organisation. He stated that the law had been proposed by the government. But I'd like to explain to Mr. Squill. He found that the students in the collective agreement realized that it was possible to survive more and that they had therefore made new demands to the new government. It's obviously working. It is not clear, however, that the LDS opposition changed its position and attitude to the students from last year to this year, even though it promised a constructive attitude after the elections. As far as the students are concerned, I'd like to touch especially the part where the age limit is. Today much has been said about this, and also by the student organisation it was presented that there should be no age limit, but this should be linked to the status. I would even agree with this personally if this age or status were not exploited in such a mass way. It has to be said that in most of those colleges that do not have a description limit, students who see a college are studying only when they are enrolled, and they are about 30%, and when they pick up school certificates. This form can be extended or extended in college for two years, and since we have three universities in Slovenia that do not know each other, this can be extended to a very long period. As far as student work is concerned, I would also like to draw attention to this part, which has already been written in the public media, to the black economy. There are many cases, and I personally know them when they carry out their student work on student guides for sons and daughter as well as friends or neighbors' parents as well as pensioners and thus undoubtedly correct their family budget. I think that the problem of student work is so great also because there are many other things for students that are unresolved, which the predecessors have already mentioned to a large extent, from housing problems to student policy, but I have not heard any of the previous speakers to touch - there is a form of lending studies in the world. With us this lending - I don't know or have not heard of it lately, but I think there are interesting solutions that should be linked as quickly as possible to the completion of the study and, of course, to the success of the study. I think that there is no doubt that student and student work is causing great harm to student services, which some abnormally quickly and successfully enrich, including some individuals in the context of student services, as has already been said. I read somewhere that the director of the S.H.I.E.L.D. has a higher salary than the rector of the University of Ljubljana. So these things are very worrying and I think that this is not good for the student work and that students will also have to make a contribution to make these things work out for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. To abuse student work to create extra profits for employers and student services, there is no problem of students and therefore cannot be sanctioned students. Last but not least, we have a colleague accused of misusing the situation because of the abuse of a student's passport or student's work. The functioning and functioning of student services is not a problem for students, but is a problem for this country and this government. And also that the young population does not have the same opportunities to study, not just students or just students, but, of course, the problem of this government. And the chairman of the committee and this country and this Parliament, the Chairman of the Finance Committee today, Comrade Starman, even mentioned what I was surprised to see the country canceling 70 billion revenues. Can you imagine if these billions were invested in improving the student’s living conditions? I don't think they'd have the problems they have today. So, of course, I'm sorry, I'm a little surprised that Members of the ruling coalition are groaning about these problems that I found here. I suggest that you do this when you assess the implementation of the coalition treaty and come to this Parliament with solutions, as you have in the coalition contract. All the way to the end. I would also expect Members of the ruling coalition not to build discussions on articles in the yellow or populist press, but because they are in power, they have copies of authorities, of course, they can also check things out, and they can debate these things with credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you. He has a word, and that's only one, and that's Mr. Joseph Horvat. And I ask everyone else to be so collegiate with the speakers and let them speak their way. Mr Lakhovnik, Mr Kangler, Mr Tanko, Mr Grims, I would like your attention. If you need to talk, do it outside.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members. Honourable Minister, Dr. Bajuk, with co-workers, Honourable President of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Today, we are certainly all in favour of the proposed amendments to the Income Act, although it is a bitter taste. We are partial to such complex legislation as tax legislation. Partially because it is only about adapting tax legislation to a specific group of citizens, to students and students. Of course, common sense enables everyone to understand that the tax system and consequently the public finances system cannot work if we consider in this national assembly the wishes of individual groups and per partes, especially during a period when we are all working together to take the euro. I would almost like to announce the unanimous adoption of this law that we are considering today. Observance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly for the requirements of the student organisation of Slovenia is obvious and understandable. While this is a compromise solution, we could say, as has already been said today, a fire solution. I myself believe that today's debate does not actually deserve as much time as it has been reserved. I would prefer to see a debate here today in the National Assembly on scholarship policy in the Republic of Slovenia. This is another major task, if you want, dota, very complex for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly. I must say that I will fully support the proposed government amendment, and I will fully support the law, from the alert to students, honest students, who are regular students, and unfortunately they must work too, because otherwise they cannot survive. If I put myself in the role of an entrepreneur who signs a grant contract for my employee, a student, in the interest of, clearly, my own company, I would certainly enter into this contract a clause on the completion date of the study. This would by no means exceed 25 years of age. It's just the logic of private finances, and I think it's good. In addition to the scholarship policy that I have already talked about, we need to talk in the future about how we will service our student work at all. Today, there have been many talks about student services that provide students and students with work. Allow me some balance sheet data from 1999-2003 for the largest and second largest student service. The first one has the status of a company - a large company, a second medium-sized company. Between 1999 and 2003, the average business growth was 72%. Net business outcome of the accounting period - average growth 54%. Average stock growth - 44%. And the net profitability of capital, the average growth over the four-year period I'm talking about, 37%. And the second largest student service: business output - average growth 129%, net business outcome 134%. And a net return on capital of 30%. I'm not commenting on any further. In itself, the question arises as to who and what is financed from this profit. We want to talk to you, respected students, just as we have accepted you in all our parliamentary groups, as far as I know. We feel for you and your social standing, with your hardships. We're gonna have to sit at the same table and properly underline the right, talk. And not as I read in Magu - now, what color is Mag, I don't know whether it's yellow or whatever, but I quote the following passage of the article: "The Slovenian Student Organisation last May's legal provisions, which are now relentlessly attacked, represented its great bargaining achievement with the government of Rob. This great achievement is in the wake of the law, this year, which has suddenly become one of the causes of the poor social situation of students." This is a chapter we haven't heard from today. Were these negotiations really so successful and who was "holding a fig in his pocket". One more time to finish. I would like to open a debate as soon as possible in this National Assembly on a new scholarship policy, because, last but not least, this national assembly must also have to have students and students, which is up to the intellectual potential that this Slovenia, I am sure, will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you. For the time being, Mr Rudi Veršnik is the last Member to be declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the distinguished representative of the students, colleagues and colleagues! I have always thought in my life that students should study and not engage in other activities. However, the situation is not such that we can stick to it. Today, when we talk about amendments, I certainly support the amendments as an emergency exit. I've always stood up for a comprehensive solution. These comprehensive solutions are somewhere in sight, probably this year, at least that's what Mr. Minister has given us. They tell the rich they don't have to work on a student service. I agree with him, but I hope to say that the same mass loan you their name. But we know for what purpose. I claim that student work is very much the result of the exploitation of employers and student workers. I come from the economy alone, and I can say that this has happened and that this is still happening and is likely to happen. Employers see cheap labour in students and these students are not adequately protected, both in the workplace and in all other areas. The Labour Relations Act was well defined by the student work, but as soon as it was implemented, things began to turn in the wrong direction. And once again, I can say that the student's solution is not in the student work, but in the better scholarship policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you. We have thus concluded the list of so far reported Members. I would like to take the floor to invite a representative of the motioners, Mr Mih A street man. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u64	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. I see there's a lot coming up, I've written a lot of things down. As far as student work is concerned in general, I agree with Mrs Žgajner, that student work, as I have said before, is a major social adjuster. Then, secondly, student work also offers work experience, and whatever work you do, you gain some experience. I am myself, or I am still doing college work, because I have to survive myself and I have done something or other, and I have accumulated a number of experiences that will benefit me in my future life. And then the third time, why is student work important - contact with employers. I know a lot of students who, while they were in college, got in touch with a future employer and then got a job. As far as the talk was concerned, it was a great deal to get involved or to get the student work out of work. We know the situation in the country that employment has been a problem since 1991. And actually, here I don't see student work eating up. The status of how long a student can study is precisely defined in higher education law and here depends on the universities themselves or higher education institutions, what procedures, who can be enrolled, how much time can be enrolled and then how much time can he study. Then I would also answer Mr Cwickle about these amendments, or these two amendments, which we have somehow agreed with the government or the Ministry of Finance, to compromise that up to 100,000 will somehow end the withdrawal and the other three solutions will be resolved in the package. I certainly believe that the agreement has also been signed with the Ministry, with the Minister, that these three matters will be resolved in the autumn time and, of course, that our proposals will be taken into account. As far as student services are concerned, I've been listening here more or less all the time, somehow it's a mix-up. We, Students' Organizations of Slovenia, and student services somehow put in the same basket, but this is not actually true. We're not student service. The student service is awarded concession by the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour keeps records of student service revenues, and is supervised. As far as abuse is concerned, we have proposed in this novel that the area of control should be regulated because, in the Student Organization of Slovenia, we do not agree that abuses are taking place, but we need to pour pure wine on ourselves, that abuses are happening everywhere, even in the economy, even in black work, if I say so at home - this is still very much, everywhere. We in the Student Organisation of Slovenia are aware of this, so we have also proposed to regulate the area of control and will certainly settle, which we have no doubt, even in the autumn. As far as concession fees are concerned: Where does it go, how much services do they earn? The law states exactly where these concession fees are going, which employers have to pay additional to the student service. A few percent of this is just the functioning of student services and their business, something goes into the work of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and its entities, and something goes into the special fund of the Ministry of Education, or now after the new Ministry of Higher Education, to build and rebuild student homes. So we are already investing in the construction or planned construction of student homes and reconstruction. Earlier it was also a question of if I refer to this again: student services, Student organization Slovenia is a umbrella organization and represents all Slovenian students. You can look at the student organisation of Slovenia, all its members, on the Internet, what projects they carry out, how many interesting or research activities are taking place for students across Slovenia. As for the business of student organisations: reports are public, at the Student Organisation of Slovenia we work transparently, all matters are clear. You can also see, all the reports go to the district commission. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] If you could just answer the question, would you please? [[...]] Mr. Sok, if he's not here, I'd answer your question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u65	I'm sorry, there seems to be a misunderstanding. I thought you would finish, but we can't break so many rules of procedure, because you already answer to individual Members. I'm very sorry, so I take your word for it. Thank you. In view of the authorship of the amendment, I also ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia if it wants a word within the time available? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! For the amendments tabled by the Government on the basis of dialogue and the final agreement with the Student Organisation of Slovenia, we propose that you accept them. This is a solution to the situation. As regards the new legislation, the government's position on tax legislation adopted in this National Assembly in 2004 is also well known. We have proposed certain key amendments, which we have assessed to be really unacceptable, to exist as proposed and enshrined in the legislation, or we have immediately begun the work of preparing changes, both the Income Act and the Law on the Profit of Legal Persons and, lastly, the Tax Procedure Act. The work of this section is indeed continuing and is very successful in the time frame that has also been set. We are confident that not only these proposals submitted by the student organisation of Slovenia, but also others will be examined in full. However, the fact is that we also need to draw up a proposal for amendments, where simplification will in particular follow the principle of simplification. We are convinced that our tax legislation is too complicated to make it much more friendly, as it concerns the taxpayer, because they are finally only owners of this country. Many have asked themselves in today's debate why this change. Obviously this is not in line with the government's approach, but according to our legal order, the student organisation of Slovenia has presented a proposal for amending the law and it is realistic to respond. We believe that, in line with the principle of simplification, although this will only cost something to manage the country's liquidity, that this is an acceptable compromise, and therefore we also propose to the National Assembly that you adopt the Government's views through both amendments and continue our work in other areas. However, we also commit ourselves before you, as we have with the proponents, that we will really review their aspirations and proposals and also take them into account as far as possible. However, the fact is that we must all be concerned that, not just the government, but all Slovenian society, we are in certain difficulties as regards the public financial situation in the sense that we must fulfil the commitments made by the State, as regards the fulfilment of the convergence programme and the adoption of the euro. It is said that we will not be able to take greater risks as regards public financial revenues in 2006 and 2007. I am already putting this to your heart, but the process of amending tax legislation is a long-term process, so that the things that we will still have to implement in this change will continue elsewhere. Just recently, I have had the opportunity to discuss these matters with the Finance Minister of the Netherlands, who is famous as the country that has done the most in the last decade, concerning the simplification of his tax system. If anything was clear to me from this conversation, it is that simplification and legislative change is a business that never ends. We started this way, and we hope that with your support we can make it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u67	Mr. Bayuk, thank you. I also conclude the debate with Dr Bayuk's debate. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the voting devices, as you know, an orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. In view of the fact that I do not see any comments, I estimate that everyone is working on voting devices. Before we go to the polls, I'll ask if anyone has a wish to explain their vote. Mr. Ambassador Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will also use my explanation of vote in this direction, because Mr Bayuk is now present and I will repeat that matter again. Otherwise, they also committed themselves and promised that you would stick to the agreement as a government and take into account the student’s wishes or comments when preparing the new income law in an integrated manner. However, I am afraid, and I am also concerned by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, that today students have managed to take one step that is possible somewhere in the future, perhaps not through your ministry, but through some other, they will pay a great price in return. I will not oppose the amendment to Article 1, but I will certainly support the amendment to Article 2. Given that we are talking about a very important topic such as for students as well as for the country and the state budget, I would also like to ask you, President, to take this opportunity as a procedural option, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to allow me a 45-minute recess to consult in the parliamentary group, because many of the new facts have been expressed, which we would like to examine and, of course, once again draw up with the drafters of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u69	Comrade Zagorac, I ask you, did you make this proposal on the basis of Article 73 on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u70	I'm sorry I didn't say that at the beginning: yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u71	Good. Then I propose a recess by 1:00. Is that acceptable? Good. The National Assembly will continue its work at 1300 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u72	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. I ask the representative of the Slovenian National Party Group whether he wishes to explain the conclusions after the consultation. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Following this very constructive consultation of the Slovenian National Party Group and taking into account all the facts mentioned in the debate, I would like to say that in the Slovenian National Party we will not support the proposed amendment of the Government to Article 1 of the Act, but we will support the amendment to Article 2 of the proposed Act. I would also like to take this opportunity to say: most of the words about the grey economy and the large resources of individual student services in the Republic of Slovenia came from members of the ruling coalition. I must say that it is with everyone or with most of the information you have given about the operation of student services that I agree with. But who gives the concession and who lays down the conditions for student services to operate them? Isn't that exactly the government of RS? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thanks for the explanation. Before we go to the vote, I ask you again to check the cards. There's no more explanation for the voice. According to the voice, there's an interruption. Procedurally. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u75	Mr. President, can you please check which card is in? [[...]] Because it doesn't work for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u76	Mine. Here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u77	Then I'd like to ask if the jobs come by before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u78	So I'm asking the technical services to check it out. I'll be off in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. The technical services have found that after cleaning the voting card, the voting device is now in operation. We are therefore moving on to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u80	Mr. Chairman! In accordance with Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a recess of 10 minutes to consult the Group of Members to discuss how we will participate in the work of the National Assembly, because the previous Chairman did not give an opportunity to explain the vote to Members and Members, but, after the first explanation, ordered a recess in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. And we also request a break in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, 10 minutes, because you are not giving us the option of 10 minutes. [[...]] So I can explain. Ten minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. I'm adjourning the session and continuing at 1.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. I ask the representative of the LDS Group to explain the conclusions of the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At the meeting, we found that you and the Vice-President must have made an unknowable mistake. The mistake was that at the beginning of the explanations of vote some Members and Members of Parliament had applied. Mr President-in-Office, he gave this opportunity to one Member and then interrupted the point for the consultation of the Group of Members. If you are now interpreting that after we return to the breakup, there is no more explanation of vote, you are introducing a new practice, because this practice simply means that the vote will appear first, request a recess, return from the pause and vote. Therefore, we regret such conduct, your conduct, Mr President, because you do not give the opportunity before the vote to explain our vote. You told me that, of course, I would have the right in three minutes - mercifully - to explain what the Group's position is on this substantive amendment, and I will do so, although I will probably be interrupted by you because this is no longer an explanation of procedural complications. We are opposed to this amendment by the governments of the Republic of Slovenia. We oppose the fact that this amendment actually abolishes the possibility, the legal possibility, the legal commitment that the Minister of Finance, as the first financier in the Republic of Slovenia, would better regulate the anomalies in the student work. This was a good proposal from a student organisation, but it has simply lost its way of dealing several times already today. We therefore believe that it is the responsibility of these Members and Members, who have spoken today about the problems of student work, to join us in this vote and that we do not support this amendment of the RS Government. We will, however, propose to the business commission that today's conduct and new practice be decided by the business commission, not just by itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Let me explain the procedure that just happened. In fact, the suspension before the decision was always before the decision, even if the Member or the Group of Members wanted the suspension earlier, at the time of the vote, it has always waited for the explanation of vote to be completed and it has never happened that they would continue to explain their vote after the interruption. In fact, an interruption under Article 73 shall be ordered before the decision is taken. And before that, all stages of the vote must be completed, from the announcement of the decision to the explanation of vote. Otherwise, if you put this on the business committee, let us wait for the final decision of the business commission. Mr. Petan, you want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, I request a 20-minute recess to consult the Group before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u86	Is there any other procedural proposal? If you'll excuse me, there's another procedural proposal for an interruption. Yes, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u87	However, I would like to suggest, Mr President, that you clear up the President from the previous phase, because this is where I think there has been a misunderstanding. You probably did not notice that Mr Pece, I will say, unplannedly suspended the meeting at the request of the parliamentary group and that he did not complete the phase you are talking about. Thus, there should first be explanations for the vote and then the suspension of the sitting, so that in today's case it would probably be advisable to continue with the explanations of vote and then give leave to the SDS Group. This would be correct for me and today, because I think it came from the change of president to brief contact and, in fact, a mistake, so I would ask you to reconsider and that you decide to proceed with the explanations of vote and then give a break to the wishes of Mr Petan or his Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you. I'm adjourning the session. We'll resume at 13.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. I'm asking the SDS representative? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask you once again to see if there is a light on the right side of the card. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. We're voting on the amendment. 56 Members and Members present, 40 votes against 11. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the amendment to Article 1 has been adopted. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the government. Who wants a word? Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u90	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will be the amendment. You must give me the time of the delegation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u91	The debate is, Mr. Squeakl, there is no explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u92	Yes, so give me the time of the mission group, four minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u93	Please sign off so we can do it again. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle, one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u94	I would also like to discuss, within the time available, the position of the Group on the second amendment. We will not oppose this amendment, we will not oppose it because we believe it is good that the student organisation has only agreed with the government and is the number that is now harmonised, 100,000. The students proposed 113 thousand, it's a hundred thousand. We suggested on the committee that the withdrawals should be higher, but that a minimum deposit should be paid. The government and the student organisation obviously do not want this because neither the government nor the student organisation want the tax number to be given on student travel. The government's proposal is in a way consistent with what the government has already said to the amendment to Article 1 and what you Members of the ruling coalition have just confirmed that you do not want more transparent controls, greater transparency over student work. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that, given the situation in public finances in Slovenia - and this situation is also good because of the tax reform carried out - that it makes sense to continue what was started last year at the proposal of the Income Act, which is that we gave students 50% lower withdrawals than everyone else in Slovenia. Now the government has decided that this discount will be 100%. We proposed a 99% discount, or 99.9%, if we went to one tolar and a few more decimals, but that was not acceptable. Thus we have an amendment that is coordinated between the government and the student organisation, but of course the amendment, together with the deletion of Article 1, means that this law, once adopted, will once again exclude from the income system an important part of the debtors or people who simply earn money in Slovenia. Whether this will continue the abuse, or whether we will have not a million two hundred in 2005, but a million five hundred, two million student travels, will show time. However, we will closely monitor what the government will propose with Dr Kranjec's working group as a solution to ensure a more transparent treatment of student work. I think that according to the amendments adopted today, first to Article 1 and probably also to Article 2 very difficult against the other 779,000 workers who pay the advance in Slovenia will eventually get the money back, which means that they are lending the country that it will be very difficult for this working group of the Ministry of Finance to reconcile all the different interests. Mr Minister spoke about this yesterday, and even some members of the ruling coalition pleaded to help limit public spending. We will support such measures, measures that will ensure greater transparency. As we have not previously supported Article 1 which reduces transparency, we now regret that there is no possibility in this Article that at least a minimum adjustment will be paid, but I will not oppose the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I am closing the debate and moving to a vote on the Government's amendment to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 65 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to these articles. Nobody. Then I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph Friday, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 in attendance, 67 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. Given that the 1st item of the agenda is scheduled to continue at 2 p.m. - these are questions of Members and Members, in the context of questions of Members and Members of Parliament, I suggest that the government not start with the 9th item, but wait a minute for the Prime Minister to arrive. We are therefore moving on to the continuation of the 1st item of the agenda - questions of Members and Members. Under this item, three questions from members of the opposition and a question from the ruling coalition will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša, whom I welcome. The first question will be put by Mr Bojan Kontic on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. For some time, the Minister of Health's public forecasts of the so-called privatization of health care have been made both at the primary and secondary levels, both in the field of health homes and in the field of hospitals. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that it is merely predictions that are not supported by concrete proposals for amending health legislation or perhaps even a national health programme. It is true that we have a national programme bearing the 2004 anniversary, a national programme entitled Health for all until 2004 and in this national programme, which is still in force, because it has not been amended or supplemented, it is, of course, stated that the health homes of those institutions which provide preventive and also curative services in a way that their operation is not compromised are not threatened by the granting of concessions. The problems are also through the award of concessions, since the way that is now present and allows the doctor to find out that he fulfils all the requirements and then requests or requests for concessions is later decided by the concessionaire, without checking whether this is necessary and tendering the concession, of course it is not the right one. These are, of course, the Minister's assessments, which, according to our assessment, are not in line with the National Health Programmes for all until 2004. In this national programme, as I have already said, the healthcare home has preserved the content of the work imposed on it by law to the extent that it makes it possible to operate successfully in the award of concessions, since it must not jeopardise the existence of a healthcare home. I ask the Prime Minister: What is your position or position on the so-called release of concessions at the primary level of health care and, consequently, on the future role of health care homes and the announced privatisation of Slovenian hospitals or the participation of private capital in their ownership structure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u98	So, honourable Member, thank you for this question. To a large extent, I agree with the description of the situation where you say that some things are out of order, that the award of concessions is complicated, that control problems, etc. Since 1993, when it was possible to grant concessions to private doctors, the first trend in directing doctors to private practice has been very large, but this trend has calmed down in 2000. At this point in time, I think that the percentage of doctors working in private practice is about 26% of all that Slovenia considers to be very low on European average. There are very few countries with a lower percentage of doctors working in private practice. I can tell countries that are mainly more developed, where this percentage of privacy is between 60 and 100%. This is Austria, Germany, Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, Switzerland, Luxembourg. And most of the new Member States of the European Union are also increasing the share of private practice in the healthcare system. I would point out, however, that we should not separate private practice and private financing. Even if someone provides a service in private practice and this service is paid through public funds, because he has a concession, it still ensures the same from the point of view of the user. In fact, to be completely honest, private practice, not only with us, but in all countries, is being introduced for greater competitiveness, due to greater competition and as a result, because it brings better quality of services. Where there is no competition, species are longer, quality is lower and costs are higher. Of course, in Slovenia we separate approaches at the primary, secondary level. As regards the secondary level of health care, matters have not yet been regulated. The situation is what it is now, somewhere in the beginning. The government is preparing solutions. I would not have prejudged them because they have already been discussed in part, but the government has not yet addressed them; the Minister is working very hard in this direction. We also intend to regulate this area of private and public partnership in general with a special law that will, in principle, regulate this area, which is not regulated for us - it is not just about health, but about the whole sphere. In this way, it will be possible to ensure private and public capital participation, to regulate control and to improve the quality of services under a transparent transparent system. This is both in the government's programme in the coming short term. These solutions will all be discussed here when the government proposes appropriate legislation, so I appeal that we deal with this problem together and resolve it in the interests of greater efficiency, shorter waiting types and better health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. The Member wants to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I am pleased to offer to deal with these matters together. I think it will certainly be the willingness of all the political parties represented here in Parliament. When you talked about stopping the trend of doctor leaving in private practice, let me say that the trend has stopped mainly because the granting of concessions is within the competence of local communities that have decided not to grant these concessions precisely because they are at the same time the founders of health homes and have to take care of the institutions that they are the founders of. They also have very poor experience with dental on-calls, where mainly concessions have been granted, and a good analysis will also be needed in this area. First of all, has an analysis been prepared so far to give us the answers to how much health care has been valued, since we have a private health network? Has the analysis been carried out to respond to what are the indicators of the higher quality of health services in the case of privacy and how much reduction in the shortage of doctors since we introduced privacy in Slovenia? At least the answer to this last part is known because the doctors are missing, but that is probably not the reason in private. But I'm sure privacy won't be the reason for the doctors to miss it in the future. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u102	The problems that have arisen in surgery have not been the case since yesterday. In 2000, when this trend of concessions was partly halted, there were several reasons for this. They do not grant concessions only to local communities; local communities need the Ministry's consent. So this is the last word of the state when the Ministry has to approve such steps. However, this regulation or legislation is the legal basis for the whole area that is at some point. In 1993, the first step was taken, and then it was partly complemented, but the system never reached out. This is a key reason why we stayed at some point where the results are mixed. Those who grant concessions may also withdraw concessions if they do not respect the procedures, the rules which are laid down in the concession contract, if they are done poorly, may be withdrawn. That's how I see no problem here. Where things weren't as good as you say they were, there was a possibility. I don't know many of these cases, but there were, of course, many of them, which means that the local communities were mostly pleased with the introduction of this novelty, which, of course, was not introduced by this government, because it started 12 years ago. But now it is necessary to take a step forward. I am convinced that a higher quality of administrative services also means a lower need for a number of doctors or a number of operators. That's a very simple logic. Above all, because of known financial problems, it will never be possible to spend as much money on health care as it can be spent. We all know that. This is a very sensitive question because it is necessary to seek some balance. Let me point out that yesterday, at the third summit of the Council of Europe, there was a debate on human rights in healthcare, that this is a European trend that extends the scope of human rights here, and that it is the task of the State to ensure equal rights through its legislation if public funding is provided, whether in public or private practice. That's what we have to take care of.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. It will be on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am firmly convinced that this analysis is necessary, which will reveal the quality of the work in private and public institutions. I don't believe private people do business better than doctors in public institutions. However, this is certainly a topic worth discussing in the National Assembly, and I propose that, on the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, we hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you. We will vote on the proposal at the time of the vote today. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, the following question will be asked by Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian government continues its policy towards Croatia, as set out by the previous Drnovskov government. This is said all the time to comply with Croatian requirements and never to defend Slovenian national interests. Although the Croatian Ambassador speaks about the fact that the Slovenian public is also a supporter and one of the largest Croatian integration allies in the EU and Croatia in general, I do not think that is true. In public, the opinion is completely different and contrary to the government's views. At the last consultation you had, Mr Prime Minister, along with Croatian Prime Minister Sanader, you have set some starting points to regulate these matters. And yet these starting points are actually incomplete and I would hardly say that they will lead to any positive result, because Croatia always turns everything around and always Slovenians lead the thirsty across the water. Slovenia sends various protests due to the boat in Mura, because of the shells, but these official notes do not reach their purpose. There's nothing to be done. Croats get excited about this. Facts and times run in their favor. Also at the bridge to Mura, which you predicted will be built with Slovenian and Croatian means, you were probably pulled by Croatians, because the bridge was supposed to be built in that place from Croatian territory to Croatian territory, because that part of the territory where the bridge was supposed to come to the other side is introduced into the Croatian cadaster. It is said that Slovenia would build a bridge for Croats, and they would continue to laugh at us as they laugh at us all the time. There is still talk of some kind of borderline control over the Gulf of Piran, while it is evident that the Gulf of Piran has never been Croatia and the decision of the 1993 National Assembly on the indivisibility of the Gulf of Piran, which Mr Drnovšek has already conquered, is to be respected. I therefore ask about the emerging or emerging historical commission: On which starting points will this mixed historical commission work: whether at historical or at the starting points of 25.6.1991 or at the starting points of today's situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you for asking. As far as the legal basis for the Slovenian government's work on these issues is concerned, it is well known. A key document linked to the border between Slovenia and Croatia was adopted on 25.6.1991 and there, in a constitutional act adopted by the then assembly or parliament of the independent Slovenian State, it is stated that the former republican border between Slovenia and Croatia will be in the future border between the countries. In coordinating this formulation, which was adopted in the same text in the Constitutional Act of Slovenia and Croatia, it was also agreed that the competence of the two countries from the exercise of independence, which has been carried out in practice, is the competence of the police and other authorities, the competence, as it was before 25.6., in the hands of the Republic authorities. With such a single possible solution, which was adopted at the time and which was later confirmed by the Badinter Commission, when it found that Slovenia had not secededed but that Yugoslavia had fallen apart, a large part of the issue could be resolved, but the border issue could not be resolved in its entirety because jurisdiction was sometimes shared. Thus, certain formalities were carried out in the same procedure with the Slovenian authorities, and they were determined in the Croatian authorities. So far, a number of such cases have been collected. In this regard, there is no other solution than to find a solution. This formulation, which was adopted on 25.6., does not solve this. It's very similar with the control line in Piran Bay. 25.6. In principle, it was clear what is the line of control, but it is not entirely clear, because there are relatively contradictory documents which, in these attempts to regulate things, are brought to the table. If international arbitration takes place, international arbitration will also take place. Indeed, Parliament has adopted a resolution on the indivisibility of the Gulf of Piran. It is also true that, at the time this decision or this decision of Parliament was in force, the Government, in previous compositions at operational level, has agreed to the operational division of the Gulf of Piran and has moved this line in agreements between the police of the two countries. The current government, you say, continues on the same path as the previous governments. I don't think that stuff happens anymore. It is difficult, however, after a situation has already been established, without consent, without agreement, to move this situation unless you take unilateral measures. Here, however, Slovenia is committed to international law, which prevents or speaks of countries having to avoid unilateral steps. This does not mean, of course, that Slovenia tolerates unilateral steps on the other side. Sending diplomatic notes is not meaningless. If a State sends a note to a concrete action that happens, this means that it does not agree with this, does not agree and has established a situation where practice in fact creates law and, of course, even though it sometimes looks trivial, it is not irrelevant in international law. As far as the historical commission is concerned, it will not come from 25.6. The purpose of the establishment of a mixed historical commission is to examine relations between countries, even at a time when they were not yet independent of the State. On this basis, it does not propose a concrete solution, but enlightens the situation. As for the entanglement in Mura, Slovenia reacted. The president of the Croatian government promised that the situation would return to its original state before the ship was taken away. As far as the bridge is concerned, no agreement has been reached that the bridge is being built where it is [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Croatian, but where the border line is undisputed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you are, Mr Member, to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The Joint Constitutional Act of 25.6. is no longer legally binding, since at this time Croatia has formally requested several amendments or amendments. Under international law, then, this document is no longer binding on our site. The Badinter Commission was only a temporary and time-limited institute, which has already been exceeded today. That way we don't have to refer to him here. 25.6.1991 did not have a control line in the Gulf of Piran. This was later added or started to be used by Croatia. The starting points for international arbitration must be based on what will be drawn up by the historical commission, which I hope will go far back to history, at least during that period in the early 20th century, if not much further back. That is why I think it would make sense for a representative of Parliament to participate in this committee, which will advocate Slovenian interests, because transparency of this historical commission is needed. It's not a political commission, it's a professional commission, and there's no need for secrecy. Because otherwise, I do not know, Croatia has announced certain actions, at least these fishermen, and I do not know whether it may be necessary to carry out any actions on the Slovenian side, such as the removal of the fight on a private basis, if the government or the state cannot do so and cannot guarantee the sovereignty of its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u112	I wouldn't advise private action. I don't think that would make any difference. We are putting great effort into agreeing on a joint statement to avoid incidents for a time until the problem is resolved. I hope that this can be reconciled at the expected time. The situation of Slovenia is not bad, and we do not expect it to get worse in the future, but rather vice versa. And there's no anxiety about it at all. Especially since some questions have been open for a long time, it is not possible to expect that this will be resolved overnight. As far as the historical commission is concerned, I do not think there is any need for politicians or politicians to participate in it or in its work. In a broader sense, the Commission is invited to all those who have any knowledge, documentation or desire to contribute to the enlightenment of these relations. Thus, we will be very pleased with any such contributions. However, it is not the intention to set up this Commission to make a concrete solution in the sense that it proposes a borderline or something like that. This would simply not be possible because it is a parity committee that we have drawn up - or it is already made up, but it has not yet been formally named or confirmed, signed - because the history of these relations has also been enlightened from a historical point of view, in terms of facts and I think that, given that we are all constantly repeating that the arguments on our side are that the facts are on our side and to a large extent it is true that the work of such a commission can only benefit us as soon as possible in order to arrive at a suitable solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, he will ask the Prime Minister the question of mag. Anton Rop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honourable Prime Minister. I ask: Despite the concerns and arguments of the professional public, journalists, the president of the state, Dr. Janez Drnovska, will you continue to insist on supporting or abolishing public RTV? That the proposed legal solution represents the full submission of RTV to the daily policies or whims of the current government is certain not only to the domestic but also to the foreign professional public. Let me just remind you of some statements by foreign experts and politicians. The Secretary-General of the International Press Association Aidan White says your proposal is dangerous for the good of journalism and for the reputation of Slovenia as a model of democracy in Eastern and Central Europe. Europe's Media Committee Chairman Karel Jakubovic says that all the facts show that RTV Slovenia will only be an extension of the majority in Parliament and that RTV Slovenia will no longer be public television. The Head of Law of the European Public Television Association Werner Ranfor agrees with the assessment that RTV Slovenia will no longer be a public television company, adding that the change you are proposing will be classified by Slovenia as poorly regulated. I therefore ask you: What arguments or international authorities in this area are still necessary to convince you of the doomsday nature of your proposal, both for our democratic order and for the international reputation of our country? Or do you simply care and feel that you are considered to be the country?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you for asking. I assure you that the government has no intention of making the situation of national broadcasting status, the status of employees and the final quality of the products of this institution worse, but on the contrary, our aim is to improve the situation. The quotations listed here when you quoted those who do not listen to Slovenian radio and do not watch Slovenian television could give you a number of quotes from audiences and listeners of Slovenian radio, and viewers and viewers of Slovenian television who are not satisfied with what they pay, watch and listen. And that's the basic reason we went into this change. In doing so, the government has followed a number of developed European countries, where national RTV houses are well regulated, where things work, where the central reports do not count every day every bomb that originates in Iraq, but are very attentive to the things that are happening in their countries, not only in the capital, but also in the wider places, and where national public media, which people pay dearly, are also somewhere in the function of faster development, providing some standards and finally promoting those citizens and citizens who are most trying to achieve great success abroad, patent new products, and at home they are virtually impossible to see. Instead, we look every day and count every bomb that runs there, tens of thousands of miles away. The reasons for things to be settled are at home, and we will also handle matters here. Nor is the government afraid, frankly, of any public debate at any global or European forum. It sounds very funny, if you do, that Europe will react. Slovenia is Europe, it would be time to get used to it. It will even preside over the European Union, including the European Council, even in this mandate. As we propose to regulate this area, many countries have a longer democratic tradition, including a longer democratic tradition of civil society, where not only tables have been replaced, but this has actually been established through generations. Thus, we do not have any of these evil purposes attributed to the government. We do not intend to support journalists, as was the case in the previous term, when the previous government coalition passed a law stating that journalists on TV Slovenia are public servants. We advocate freedom of the press. We do not have any deductions to do as has been done so far, but, as we have repeatedly made very clear, we will defend this institution, in which we are all sitting today, suddenly taking the legitimacy, right, decision-making on the composition or on the partial composition of the Council, which then runs this national institution, when it is not a competent body, and at the same time it is competent to decide on the appointment of the judges of the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, all the judges and so on. If then all these decisions are also political, party, unacceptable, then it is necessary to re-write the Slovenian Constitution and to write in the Constitution that some societies in Slovenia are appointed by someone who has been in power so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador would like to add to the question? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. First, I quoted those foreigners who visited Slovenia and heard both salaries and those who were experts in this area. This sounds funny to you, it seems to you as it used to be typical of totalitarian regimes, like some foreigners who have come and do not know the reality in Slovenia. It is interesting that you think that people such as the President of the State do not know the reality in this country. All of these have gone against this law, all of them tell you that it is the politicization of RTV Slovenia and the abolition of public television and there is no doubt about it. The arguments that RTV Slovenia is not doing well, that it has a bad programme to assess citizens and citizens do not justify the adoption of a law that undermines the possibilities for the free and independent functioning of RTV Slovenia. If you feel that it is not doing well and if you think it is possible to improve the organisation, then of course it is justified to propose a law that also achieves it, but your law does not achieve it. What I would like to ask you is: Do you realize that when you stop public RTV, and there is no doubt about it, you are also removing the fundamental reason why RTV recipients have to pay the RTR subscription? In 1994, under the chairmanship of your current Minister for Justice, the Constitutional Court ruled and concluded that the obligation to pay a subscription was appropriate and necessary in order to prevent political influence on programme content and quality in order to maintain and ensure a sufficient degree of independence for the public RTV Slovenia. By this law, you are actually setting aside the fundamental reason for this. Once again, I would like you to consider all these arguments if you do not like foreigners, if you think they do not know, but think about those who at home warn you that this solution you are proposing is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u120	I understand that someone opposes the regulation of an area because he fears that this will now be arranged differently, more transparent and that it will not be possible to do what has been done so far. I also understand that what has been declared to be an ideal situation so far, this scrupulous defence of something that the vast majority knows is not good, just shows that this area has been strongly politicized so far, there are known cases where the secretaries-general of government parties have called three times on national television and have regulated not only the programme, but in particular the broadcast and there has been no protest, even though it was known in the house and beyond. No one protested, no press came forward when you supported the press in the previous term and made them public servants. Thus, with the same double criteria, there is no point in discussing. I do not think it is good for people who come to Slovenia to be put in the mouth of comparison that Slovenia is like Turkey or Tunisia or some other countries when it comes to media freedom. This is the mudslinging of a country abroad that brings nothing to anyone, especially because things are not serious. I don't know how you imagine that French journalists will protest against this law, not parliament, but if the President of France himself, Mr Chirac, appoints a large part of the members of the world running French RTV, appoints even a president, without Parliament, without civil society, and nobody asks questions about it. In Finland, Parliament appoints the entire composition, etc. The bill contains a text that ensures that things will go forward, and this text reads as follows: "The RTV Slovenia Programme Council may be elected or appointed persons who, with their knowledge, reputation, achievements in cultural, educational or any other area of social life, can contribute to the good functioning and reputation of public television in both RS and abroad." Why it is not possible to propose to anyone there, it is impossible to say that those who will be elected here by the majority are political, then all constitutional judges are political, and that the highest judicial body you have named is political, which is an even greater catastrophe than this world. This criterion set out here in the bill prevents lobbyists from entering this world [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] As before, people looking for material benefits here and a number of other security guards are here providing significantly better and more transparent management of this national institution. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable Prime Minister. The problem of wages and employment in public administration has always been reflected in the media and also in the public. Governments have repeatedly stated in recent years that employment in the public administration must not only be stopped but that employment should even be reduced and wages in the public sector should be regulated. There was also much talk about the anti-biocratic program. At the time of the adoption of the Law on Public Servants in the National Assembly in 2002, the former Government undertook to join the rationalisation of the state administration. On the other hand, it has been heard on several occasions by top government officials that the number of employees in the state administration will be reduced by 1% per year. Last year, however, in 2004, the number of civil servants employed in the state administration increased by 775 and by almost 2.3%. Inconsistent was also wage policy. The result is also extremely high salaries in the public sector, such as in health care, pharmacy and elsewhere. This is where some directors of public institutions stand out, whose salaries far exceed the salaries of the most responsible representatives of the country. The coalition parties have committed themselves by signing a coalition agreement to actually follow trends in the reduction in the number of civil servants in the state administration during the four-year period, by placing the government, every two years, at a percentage of the lower employment quota. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: How will you approach these goals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you for asking. It's an extremely important topic. Indirectly or directly, you will also meet with her in the short term when you talk about the budget rebalancing for this year. If we look at the history of the growing state administration, then we see that in 1991 we had about 10,000, even slightly less, employees in the state administration. And then this number went up dramatically, and today it reaches almost 35,000, it says, an increase of 25,000. In part, this increase was justified. For the first time, Slovenia has rounded its statehood, and has recently also established the institutions necessary to operate within the European Union and in part NATO. However, this number is too large. With these rational arguments and analyses, it is simply not possible to explain such a drastic increase at this time. This has also pushed costs to record levels. Look at how this has grown in budgets from year to year. And even though previous governments have committed themselves in recent years to reducing this number, this has practically never happened. From 1 January 2001, from the beginning of the previous mandate, until December of last year, when the previous mandate ended, the number, despite the fact that a policy was also in force in order to reduce it, increased by an additional 3,500. The truth is that most of this figure went to the police on account of additional employment, partly in the Slovenian army because of the professional army, and that the cost may have been reduced somewhat elsewhere. The key reason that the increase was so great is, in my view, irresponsible treatment of human resources. We are firmly determined that in the civil part of the state administration, in the coming years, this reduction of 1% per year is being achieved. How are we gonna do that? Here are some measures we've decided to take. The first is that when you retire or leave the state administration, you do not automatically work, but that any such solution is weighed, it is said that there is no automatic compensation. Then it's about using the internal reserves that exist. There's a bigger body, more employees, more internal reserves. We see a key reduction option in another direction of the government called removing administrative obstacles, less bureaucratic procedures, less staff involved. This will go hand in hand, and it will be possible to reduce something in this way. We are also looking for reserves in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. There is also a need for a completely different approach than it was during the previous term. For example, for the Schengen border, people were employed for an indefinite period of time. But we do know that the Schengen border will not be something to deal with indefinitely. Sooner or later, this principle of employment will need to be changed, even when it comes to customs, as these needs will be significantly reduced over a period of time. As a result, the government, at its last meeting when adopting the proposal for a budget rebalancing, adopted a staffing plan for this year, which already takes into account this orientation and limits employment or reduces the number of employees at the end of the year. And if we do that, I think it will be the first time, not only since independence, but generally since there has been a government in Slovenia to reduce the number, but not increase.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. This concludes the question and I thank Mr President for the answers given. We are moving to a vote, in line with the proposal of Mr Kontić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Bojan Kontić's question on the issue of the award of concessions in basic health." We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm moving to nine. Agenda item - To defend the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. Please, some silence! With regard to this law, the Health Committee proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the draft law. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendment to the law that we will now begin the treatment has been prepared by the proposers at the initiative of the phenylketonoric patient society. This is an extremely severe metabolic disorder. Members of society warned us in December 2004 about the great problems they face in exercising the right to reimbursement of the costs they have due to their severe illness. The problem was detected last year. There are few patients with hereditary metabolic disorders in Slovenia: currently 112. They're already in a very difficult position because of the disease. Because of certain legal provisions, this is further difficult for them. Since they are not allowed to eat protein because of their disease, they are fed exclusively on a daily basis with special preparations worth more than 220 thousand tolars a month. These products do not belong to medicinal products, but they can be reimbursed only if they have a monthly delay under the special rule. This depends solely on the good will of officials in the health insurance institution. It is true that funds have generally been reimbursed to patients so far. However, there is a fear that this will change, and that with the large financial savings that the institution must make, this can be different tomorrow. Therefore, the status of the preparation will no longer be governed by the regulations, conclusions or good will of the officials at the institution, but would be established by law and would give greater security to patients and ensure that this will also be regulated for a long time and on a continuous basis. Amendments to the law should allow access to this preparation by covering directly and fully from compulsory health insurance, which is currently not possible for adult patients, but through a demanding, long-term and painful bureaucratic procedure based on every professional opinion of the doctor and a special role. Is it really necessary that, with all the bad things that have happened to them with the disease, we become bitter? In addition, among these patients, more than 40% of the unemployed who have to borrow loans, be indebted, borrow money and so on. However, if they do not take this preparation, they are at risk of severe problems and serious nervous system damage and a variety of other irreversible consequences. On behalf of the motioners, I call on you, honourable Members and Members, to enable patients, by amending the law, to solve the problem presented immediately. That's possible. And in the coming month, we could save them a lot of worries, unnecessary routes, alleviate financial problems, and provide a long - term and complete solution. Let's show our lives and our feelings for our fellow man's problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Mikhael Prevc will present the position of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Honourable Fellows and Fellows! In the Slovenian People's Party, we understand the distress of patients who face the problem of providing food preparations for congenital metabolic disorders. Anyone facing any illness needs help and care. For this reason, each country must establish systems that ensure accessibility and efficiency of healthcare for all inhabitants. We agree with the proposers that special cases such as the draft law should also be resolved. However, we have already pointed out on the Health Committee that there are other types of diseases that are not yet properly regulated, both their detection and treatment, and their costs, in accordance with our health system and health insurance. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support more comprehensive solutions and adoption of such additions and changes to health legislation that will provide and regulate more comprehensively such and all other forms of disease and treatment. To the Ministry of Health and to all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, the company which is struggling to regulate the situation for patients with hepatitis C has submitted a request for the resolution of their problems in a special law. The material sent shows that in Slovenia there are about 700 patients, patients with chronic and acute hepatitis C who claim that their treatment and cost compensation are not adequately regulated. It is also incomprehensible that there is also insufficient awareness in the public of the danger and possible infections and the consequences of hepatitis C. We expect that such and similar diseases will be adequately covered and addressed in the relevant legislation. Therefore, we believe that the proposed law proposing solutions for patients with metabolic disorders is part of a more comprehensive amendment and complementing the Health Care Act, which will include those and patients with similar health problems in the relevant provisions. It is also expected that the law will provide solutions for patients with hepatitis C and similar patients. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will advocate the inclusion of appropriate solutions for all such cases in the draft amendments to the law being drawn up by the Government. Therefore, we will not support the amendments on the agenda in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u130	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! Today, we are witnessing that a peaceful soul can be said if proposals come from the wrong side, but the priorities are rejected. I am sorry that this proposal was proposed by the LDS Group, but it would be better if it came from another client environment and was supported. We are talking about 20 million tolars of costs to these patients because we know that for children and minors, the cost of treatment is entirely covered. I'll tell you an example when we supported asbestos patients on the Committee on the Economy, extended the law that expired last year, with a time preamble of one year, and gave these patients 700 million tolars so that they could normally carry out a diagnosis that has a long latent period and normally retired these patients. Here, when it really comes to a serious illness that cannot be said to be treated differently from a selective food intake, we do not have hearing. And 46% of these adult patients are unemployed. We have heard today that they are getting a refund, but after complicated bureaucratic procedures. I ask you, honourable Members and honourable Members, is a sick man truly worthy of such a misunderstanding of us here in the National Assembly that we cannot find so much reason and so much common sense that we can overlook once who is where and who decides and stop sharing on the left and right and decide for the benefit of these small common people? 20 million is a question, and we don't know how to make a wise decision. Of course, in the Slovenian National Party we support the proposal, and certainly did not receive the necessary support on the labour market. I have expressed my own great sadness at the fact that we really need to share everything in terms of who is proposing and what kind of proposal is coming from. I hope that in the future we will cut off this practice, especially when it comes to the sick, and let us be aware that today we are healthy, we can be sick tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Instead of Mr Rezman, Mr Klavor will present his position, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Given that no amendment has been adopted by the parent committee and that it has voted in such a way that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, I would like to say a few words. I would not like to go into professional debates on this problem, but I would like to say first of all that it is very commendable that you triggered this problem, although I wonder why just now, because patients with this metabolic disease have been present in the Slovenian space for a long time. I think it's important that we deal with such things. However, I think it is important to remember that such groups of patients are still large. I know them. And not only with diseases, but also with other problems that require a lot of money. When I made that decision, for the first time, and for the second time, because I found out that this matter was going to come into the new amended Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. When I was sure of that, I made up my mind. I do not want our Group of Members, on whose behalf I speak, to make any mistake or to harm any other group. Just one question, honourable Members and Members: Will you vote equally when I ask you whether a better analogue hearing aid or a digital one costs three times or four times more? I think it'll be deaf and deaf. I think that this matter will be settled, although I warn the distinguished Secretary of State and also Members and Members of Parliament that even when we may adopt or consider the Health Care Act, we may debate whether it is correct that we are covering only 70% of the costs for these people and 30% not. The category up to 26 years old is covered. You were talking about the unemployed. It is promised that all those who are socially weak or have no support will receive this support or have 100% paid. At the same time, I appeal that we also recall that there is a Article 259 of the Health Insurance Regulation, which has already reimbursed all costs, but I appeal that these routes will not be as long as they have been. This is a good 112 patients with this metabolic disease. I'm not getting into any other metabolic disease. I think we're gonna get to the bottom of this. Once again, however, we would not want to harm countless other groups. That's what I'm talking about. Some countries cover it up 100%. That's right. Some countries, for example Germany, also cover this with additional health insurance. With everything we accept, let's not forget that old saying that I often remember: "It's very expensive for the rich, too." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which is before us, has been put into procedure by a group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Zalokar. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is sympathetic to the problem faced by patients with congenital metabolic disorders, but we believe that this is a more systematic problem. We are also aware of the severity of the damage that non-medical disease can cause in adult patients. For this reason, we want to take full responsibility to alleviate problems mainly through the availability of preparations and the removal of bureaucratic barriers to patients with congenital metabolic disorders. Systemicity of healthcare and health insurance in those patients requires a comprehensive approach within the health insurance system. The Ministry of Health is already preparing such a proposal for amendments and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act and will soon be introduced into the legislative procedure. It should be said that today, at this afternoon's press conference, the minister also presented the law publicly and that he is from now on under public scrutiny. Under the current regime, the payment of contributions with a therapeutic indication with eliminated specialist amylosis for the treatment of metabolic disorders intended for patients up to 26 years of age from compulsory health insurance because those products are classified as food for children with severe metabolic disorders on a positive list of medicines. Otherwise, it is for adult patients who have to pay for such preparations themselves. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, exceptionally, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, on the basis of its application and in accordance with Article 259 of the mandatory health insurance rules, may grant them partial or full reimbursement of the cost of the products, without having been able to recover the costs according to known data. At the same time, we would like to stress the fact that the problem remains with patients with congenital metabolic disorders since 2001. In doing so, we ask why the previous ruling coalition of this problem did not resolve the problem during its mandates when it had a suitable majority and could vote on an appropriate solution to the problem. Now, a new coalition, suddenly, such revelations that are inappropriate and misleading. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we would like to reiterate that partial modification of compulsory health insurance rights is not appropriate for this issue to be adequately and comprehensively addressed in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation will therefore not support the proposed proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the delegation of the Nationality Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u136	Your Honor! I support the bill because it seems to me that it is necessary to help patients who are in severe distress and need to borrow money for drugs. It is also difficult to bear if there are no financial problems. I don't know, and I don't understand why we'd keep waiting on the government's proposal, because every month waiting for these patients is a pain in the ass and a problem. I think it is right that, given that this is a hereditary disease, it is better to ensure that the funds are fully secured from compulsory health insurance, as proposed in this amendment. Let us be human, for it is a serious disease, and if possible, let us allay the error of life. We must be aware that the disease is not a choice between the left and the right and we are not even aware that it is already here. Maybe it's endangering us or our dearest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We will support the proposed change in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as we were also the initiators for it. Faced with patients’ problems, we feel that this is absolutely necessary. However, change means only legal and legal arrangements for the reimbursement of the cost of a preparation that patients have to consume every day, and for adult patients the reimbursement of the cost of that food, which is in fact essential for life, and the cost of more than 220 thousand dollars per month, I repeat, after the current regulation, is not legally guaranteed. They must take a long and bureaucraticly complicated path. The changes have no financial implications whatsoever. The Ministry is also aware of the problem and agrees with the necessity of regulation, but it does not support the change, as it is intended to settle it with its amendment. The problems were detected last year. In December, we were briefed by LDS Members and we introduced amendments to the law in the February process. Unfortunately, because of the negative opinion and the vote that left the law without articles and without a title, the procedure was complicated at the meeting of the Health Committee. There's been a blockage, and they've been lost for months. However, patients with severe and unhealing illness must seek money in order to buy the product, be in debt and carry out complex and delayed procedures each month to be reimbursed by the medical institution. Without political struggles and prestige, the problem could have been solved for more than a month. But it's not like that. Moreover, the solution announced and proposed by Minister Bručan and should be comprehensive, as stated by the Ministry, if indeed, as we are informed, even worse than the current situation. Thus, only 75% of the costs of the preparation were subsequently covered by compulsory health insurance and, according to them, the rest were voluntary. Let me also say that in the vast majority of European countries - once again, in the vast majority, there is an exception - after the analysis we have done, these costs will be covered in full and without complicated bureaucratic procedures from compulsory health insurance. In the LDS, we will oppose such a solution proposed by the Ministry, which does not fully cover the costs of the compulsory health insurance product if this happens. Once again, I sincerely hope, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, that you will support the proposal and thus show that we know how to fix problems quickly and effectively, but not only to look at the political interests and prestige, as the members of society have been given an explanation in the coalition that the change will not be accepted because the applicants are wrong. Patients are neither members of the coalition nor members of the opposition, but only people in distress, without political colour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Mr Bojan Kontič will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As proposed by amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act in the introduction, congenital metabolic disturbances are a very rare hereditary disease. Of course, this does not reduce the problems faced by patients who need complex preparations to replace normal diets for their health. Therefore, problems occur in patients over 26 years of age. By the age of 26, these products are provided by means of compulsory health insurance. So, as I said, problems occur after 26 years when patients have to pay for their products themselves. In doing so, it must be recognised that the exception to the application for health care has in fact become a rule. Therefore, the funds that the patient uses to buy the product are reimbursed. However, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the adult patient’s purchase cost is monthly on average 220,000 SIT, depending on the patient’s weight. This means, of course, a high cost, and it is a horrifying fact that patients hire loans for purchase purposes and therefore pay interest for the purposes of their health, this is certainly not acceptable for a socially sensitive society. The argument also that these different groups do not significantly reduce their actual problems. Thus, the logical derivative of the analysis of the existing situation tells us that, by means of the proposal for a law which the government majority intends to adopt by adopting the proposed decision, in fact, it would only, without any additional cost, regulate and simplify the lives of patients. The argument that the problem needs to be addressed by a system law that is somehow already in coalition coordination and which unofficially predicts a number of violations of existing rights would, of course, have weight if we did not know its purpose. The area governed by the draft law to which the parent body has been negatively defined is better and more favourably governed by the rights of patients with congenital metabolism disorders than will be regulated by the law they are preparing in coalition illegality. Moreover, waiting for a system law is unnecessary. The solution proposed by LDS-type applicants can only be introduced into a comprehensive amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act as already regulated by law later. The Health Committee has twice considered the amendment of the law in the same content and with this similar final extract. The only difference is that, at the first meeting, it was possible to hear support from the government majority for the solutions proposed, the reason for the rejection of the vote was merely a desire for a system-wide regulation of the area. A month later, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health presented us a text that will be written down in a new bill prepared by the Ministry. The views on this issue have changed slightly and not only on behalf of the proposer but also in the proposed solution. The Group of Social Democrats cannot agree that patients, even though they are few, are also paying for the products by borrowing loans. We support a more favourable solution for patients with congenital metabolism disorder, so we will vote against the proposal to conclude that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry, the Secretary of State and all of you, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. In Novi Slovenija we have for a long time warned that the current system of regulation of individual rights from compulsory health insurance is somewhat inappropriate. This inadequacy, however, has still stalled their application in practice with more than long bureaucratic procedures. In the parliamentary group, we are aware of the problems of patients with metabolic disorders, including those with phenylketonuria, as this is a serious metabolic disorder with severe consequences. In particular, early detection in children is important. Noting that if the child does not receive adequate nutrition, the disease can also progress by affecting, among other things, the central nervous system, but the payment of these products for these children and for patients and patients up to 26 years old is already regulated by law in an appropriate manner. Today, we are talking about those patients and patients over 26 years of age who, under the current rules, also have the possibility of applying and demanding reimbursement for these products. So, the thing about them does not run automatically, they have the opportunity to play a role and, as we have heard, these roles have been accepted so far. All patients in the country are about 112, patients over 26 years of age around 20. But we are aware that it means this problem for everyone in particular. In Novi Slovenije, we stand in the position of the Christian People's Party that the problem for these patients and for others also needs to be addressed in an integrated manner. The Government is already preparing an amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, taking due account of the comments made by the company's initiators, which was transmitted through the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly. Thus, the provisions of the law tabled are already reasonably covered by the Government's proposal. In the view of New Slovenia, some other additions and amendments to the basic Health and Health Insurance Act are also necessary and it is appropriate to regulate them in an integrated manner. At the meeting of the Labour Committee, the Government's representative ensured that these patients would also be included in the amendment of the law and therefore the proposal contained them. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the decision of the parent working body, so that this law, which we are considering today, is not suitable for further consideration because we estimate that partial resolution of the situation would not constitute a definitive solution for these patients or for other groups of patients with similar problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, would you like to explain your voice? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I have read very carefully in the last days, what is the proposal proposed by the Ministry, which, according to the explanations given by the proponents of this law, is better than what we have proposed ourselves. What is proposed and what we have seen in the drafts, many protected and highly guarded, and very difficult to reach this document, is worse than proposed and worse than is regulated at this time. It is true that at this point the path to reimbursement of costs is complex, long-lasting, that money needs to be pawned, but 100% of the cost for strangulation or preparation that costs more than 220,000 SIT a month. The proposal that we have seen in these days, which has been repeatedly said today to be comprehensive better and that I do not really know why we have prepared this law, is worse. And society absolutely disagrees with the solution in this proposal, because it will only be reimbursed from a compulsory health insurance of 75% of this, it remains in the air and is supposed to be reimbursed from voluntary health insurance. This solution is worse. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe someone doesn't think it's important. Many of you have also been out, and in fact you have not felt it appropriate to listen to this problem, but every month it is for these people with such a severe illness that they have to do a number of unnecessary pathways, their doctors write extensive documentation and a bureaucraticly complicated way to do every month to get the money back for this urgently needed medicine that they must take every month is valuable to them. We've lost two months already. How many more patients will lose before the solution is prepared and adopted in this House - I say it will be worse - I think we will attribute it to our conscience or to those who vote against this solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to add just two words to this: ensuring the same level of patient protection in the Republic of Slovenia is our duty. Our duty is to all of us here who decide how accessibility to this will be made possible for the sick. We know that this law is truly null and void in financial terms, because it does not represent any additional costs, but it makes it easier for many of the sick who are today complex, bureaucratic and long-lasting. I would invite you all together to act reasonably and not undermine the decision of the parent’s working body. Also, the profession, part of the profession on the committee that he considered, for the first time so, for the second time, showed that, in fact, the division or discipline here prevailed over this understanding and expertise, of course, mainly the expertise. I want to help this small group here today, with 46% of the unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you very much. When colleagues and colleagues represented the position today, there was a lot of ridicule on the face. Smile, if we don't care about those 112 people. No one is related to us. After all, you are a small group that would be politically important. In this context, all the alibis you've expressed by the fact that the system law, which has just been said to have little effect on what you've been promised or what you've been accused of, will be saved by another ridicule. Those of you who think you will save hearing aids, hepatitis and everything else that is missing, then please do your best, and when the government comes with this solution, enter this proposal that you wish to reject today from, I believe, mere and pure arrogance and ridicule.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Shirtz. Mr. Klavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u150	Dear Members and Members! I don't think it would be exactly the conclusion we're talking about right now about this affected group of people. There are a lot of groups like this, so keep an eye on them. You may or may not know about them. However, we would do well to discuss this a little differently. I'm very happy that it's come to this. What Mrs Zalokareva said, and everyone else, as you said, would also be Mrs Shirca, but I would remind you that there are some things that will not be resolved by the vote in this assembly. If we solve this one way or another, there are some things that concern completely administrative procedures that are impossible for us. I agree with that. You said in the past that this was all the same and I think that all the costs were met, but the ways to achieve this were impossible. I agree with that. That is why I am listening, and I think it is right that this came into the correction of the new law, because others are coming in with it. However, when we discuss this law, I will be the one to say that as much as possible, as much as possible is paid or all for this affected group, but please also appeal to everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 29. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and hereby declare that the legislative procedure on the bill is concluded. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE PAYMENT SYSTEM SYSTEM IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr. Minister, Dr. Gregor Virant, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current government has inherited from the previous government an open wage reform in the public sector. It's an inheritance that's very difficult. On the one hand, I can say that the objectives set in 2002 when the law on the public sector wage system was adopted are good [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u153	Please, only Mr. Virant has the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. These objectives are: the uniformity of the wage system in the public sector, i.e. for all those who receive salaries from public funds, transparency and the elimination of wage imbalances. On the other hand, this project is extremely demanding because it creates an open system of public sector wages in all categories of the public sector, in all groups of expectations. Simply put, when the pay system is open, each of the changes expects a higher salary from the reform. I would like to stress that this is a difficult and difficult legacy and an extremely difficult and challenging project. The law was adopted in 2002 and has not yet been in force. Twice its application has been delayed and implementing acts have not yet been adopted. The most difficult implementing act, one that is not only in government hands but is a matter of collective bargaining or social dialogue, is a collective contract for the public sector, probably a key document of wage reform. The government has decided to continue the pay reform on the same principles, i.e. on the principle of unity, transparency and the elimination of imbalances. However, first of all, she decided to make some urgent corrections to the law on the public sector wage system in order to eliminate the jamming of collective bargaining and to eliminate the worst in the sky, the leaking anomalies in public sector wages. It has therefore prepared amendments to the law, at the same time started to lead or continue to negotiate a collective agreement for the public sector, drafted its proposal for a tariff work and handed it over to the unions. In the first half of this year, it was also necessary to agree on and harmonise the way in which wages were coordinated from 1.7 this year. As every year, there have been negotiations on this between the social partners. At the same time, the government is speeding up the preparation of sub-legislative regulations, those not bound by union consensus, so the decree on the salaries of public officials, which I must say, is still at a very early stage and in the coordination process, so that the time for consideration and discussion of this decision will come, as well as the regulation on directors' salaries and certain other sub-legislative rules. The change that is before you today brings the following. Firstly, it imposes sanctions in the event of an unlawful determination or unlawful payment of wages. These sanctions have not yet been provided for in the current legislation. Therefore, questions were repeatedly raised as to what happens when a person in the public sector receives a higher salary than the rules or collective agreement allows him to do so. This is now clearly regulated by the fact that, in the event of a finding of such non-compliance, payments shall be made by law irrespective of the contract concluded, and that that part of the salary paid in excess of the rules shall also be returned. The second segment is the salaries of directors in the public sector. Here came the time when the marriage had already been adopted, but not yet in use, of course, to great anomalies. From month to month, we monitored the data published by AIPES on protruding, mildly speaking, salaries in some public institutions. All the employees in the public sector, judges, doctors, teachers, nurses and everyone else, looked up at these salaries and wondered how this was possible. It's an anomaly where we can't wait for it to settle. That's why the law makes two. On the one hand, the temporary, intervention arrangements for these salaries by fixing the ceiling set by the highest pay grade as foreseen by the new system; however, I stress that this is a temporary solution. Secondly, it is not necessary to wait for a collective contract for the public sector to be concluded for the public sector, but to arrange the salaries of directors in the public sector immediately so that directors of individual types of public institutions can be classified strictly and specifically in the wage classes. The third important thing is clearing up or a clear answer to the question whether wages in the public sector are public or not. So far, the provisions in force have been given different interpretations and we have decided to make it perfectly clear in the law that the salaries of public servants and public officials are information that is accessible to the public. So, wages are public, they are payments from public funds, government budgets or local budgets, or more from public funds, and therefore there must be complete transparency and transparency. The next important point is the creation of a dedicated item to address pay-as-you-go imbalances. I would like to point out that the wage structure, the structure of public sector wages under this law is expected to be levelled over a slightly longer period of time, by the end of 2009, those who will be ranked higher in the structure will gradually achieve their salaries gradually and eventually reach this target state. Therefore, it is, of course, necessary now to raise money from which we will be able to eliminate these imbalances. The law already provided for such a way of harmonising wages, but the problem was that that part of the salary, the harmonisation of wages that was intended last year to eliminate wage imbalances, of course, was lost in the budget because no specific dedicated item had been envisaged because no specific fund had been foreseen, this money simply did not exist. That is why this government must now provide it with a budget rebalancing, or the National Assembly will have to provide it with a rebalancing of the budget back from 1.7 last year and, of course, the part that has been agreed since 1.7 this year. An important provision that came into law on the proposal of trade unions is the protection of the paid classes achieved, which means that a staff member who is making progress is moved to a more demanding position, carries with him the paid grades achieved in terms of progress, which simply means that someone who is making progress in a more demanding job will not be able to keep the same salary as he had earlier, but he must also know in his salary how this could otherwise happen. If he had already made progress in the previous job because of his successful work in higher pay grade, he could reach a pay grade higher than the starting salary grade for a more demanding job. Logically, anyone who goes to a more demanding job expects to know this in his salary at least a little. In particular, I would like to point out that this novelty is in line with the vast majority of representative trade unions in the public sector, which makes it much easier for us to negotiate in the public sector collective agreement, because we have maintained social dialogue, we have maintained coherence, and therefore I believe that there are strong arguments that the National Assembly supports this novelty, even in that the law is in line with the trade unions. That's my conclusion. I would just like to say this, because of the transparency of our work in the area of public sector wage reform. Under-laws, we intend to propose a regulation on functional salaries to the National Assembly by about September of this year, following an optimistic option by the end of June, after a slightly less optimistic September. The Director's Wages Regulation, which is on the salary of Group B, are directors, directors and secretaries in the public sector, whether or not in June or by the end of the summer or no later than September. However, negotiations on the conclusion of a collective agreement for the public sector continue intensively. We are now waiting for the union's counteroffer, and it is difficult for the government to promise or predict when this process will end, because it is not only up to the employers' side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Greetings to the Minister and to everyone here again! At its 7th urgent meeting on 13.5., the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly decided at its 22nd regular meeting that the draft law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. In its supplementary explanation, the representative presented an assessment of the state of pay system reform and the objectives and principles and main solutions to the bill. The Public Sector Wages Act was adopted in 2002 and amended and supplemented in 2004, for its definitive application in practice, provided for a series of collective agreements and sub-legislative acts which should be adopted no later than three months before the start of the reckoning and payment of salaries under this Act. Although the preparation of all those acts and the negotiations for collective bargaining began in 2002, some negotiations have stalled and have thus rejected the speedy achievement of harmonised solutions. The representative of the proposer also presented the objectives of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law, which would in particular facilitate and accelerate negotiations for the conclusion of collective agreements and the preparation and harmonisation of all sub-legislative acts and address issues which were not sufficiently addressed in the law in force. In the light of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry has drawn up proposals for amendments and has also proposed them to the Committee on Admission. The representative of the Council of State stressed that the Commission of the Council of State supports the proposed law for the political system and stressed the need to accelerate efforts towards a faster level playing field, given the aim of the law to resolve certain issues relating to the implementation of the settlement of payment imbalances. In this regard, in its opinion, the Commission proposed a concrete solution to the Committee, which was deliberately taken up by the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 13. The representative of the Union of Education and Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, the representative of the Judicial Council and the President of the Slovenian Judicial Society expressed support for the amendments submitted, while also expressing their views on the legislative proposals. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the proposal for a law, in particular commending the Government's efforts to align the proposed changes with the representative public sector unions, which was also achieved by the signing of the declaration of harmonisation. The debate on the amendment to Article 13 of the draft law, which would eliminate 50% of the wages found by the end of 2006, highlighted the need for as much as possible to ensure the smoothing or elimination of wage imbalances in the public sector. The amendment, as has already been said, followed the comments made by the Commission of the State Council on the political system. The representative of the proposer responded to the concerns expressed by representatives of the professional public and by members of the committee. He also cited the reasons why he did not support the amendment of Article 13 of the Social Democrats Group. The Committee did not adopt the amendment to Article 13 but adopted the amendments to Articles 2, 9, 10, 11 and 16 as its own. We then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them with 11 votes in favour and 1 against. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is also an integral part of the report. But I apologize for the unloving mistake made in the building. In the introductions you have not received the annex, so we have prepared this and the annex is attached, following the 16th page of the already submitted report which you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I don't think he's among us today who won't say that this marriage isn't necessary. This law is necessary. It was necessary to change the matter and I do not think that it is between us who will not congratulate the government for its support and the consensus it has reached with the social partners. However, there was also a talk on transparency, and we have repeatedly stressed this in the Slovenian National Party. Transparency. I don't know why it's not like an annex to the law and a decree, an optimistic announcement by the Minister that the decree will be ready by September - I don't know why it was necessary to wait. The decree is here. I have it. I don't know why it's an optimistic wait for September. And what does the decree imply? The decree foresees such anomalies that certain wages are paid - that certain wage classes do indeed result in unacceptable anomalies. For example, the Ombudsman has the same salary as the Attorney General, a member, for example, and the Kosovo Commissions have a higher salary than the Member of the National Assembly. And it is this transparency that this government has been talking so much about, and which the Minister has also talked about in explaining the law, that is what is most disturbing in the Slovenian National Party that we do not have the right to discuss the content of the decree here today. And because of the lack of transparency and because we know the content of the decree and because we know that the law gives very high powers to the government and the minister in implementing acts, we will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u160	Mr President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The position of the DeSUS Group is that we will complement the proposed amendments to the law in the public sector wage system, as proposed, as we know that the essential novelties of this law are, if I go on the important path: the establishment of wages and salary scales and the modification of the ranges, the classification of salary classes, promotion and performance, the establishment of means for the elimination of imbalances, the establishment of wages and the prescribed conduct in the event of illegality, the public salaries of officials and public servants and the regulation of the salaries of directors. To be brief. We were aware that the legislative and legal service has taken all the comments into account, we are pleased that the unions have been coordinated and that the unions agree and that the mother body has almost unitedly supported the amendment of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Clavor. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is based on the fact that the basic law on the system of wages has been in place for several years, even though this system has not actually come to life, and this is actually an inheritance that we must also work with in this mandate, although it would be right that the matter should be settled in the previous term - but, however, it is. Given that we are talking about the law on the wage system in the public sector, which is changing, all I would mention is that the decision on the appointment of an official in the pay grade, which was mentioned by my predecessor or the pre-representative speaker, is not the subject of today's debate, so it is only right that we are dealing with what is on the agenda. The aim of the Law amending public sector wage laws, which is under consideration, is in particular to remedy the unfair situation between public sector wages of comparable professions and to establish a stimulating public sector pay system, which will burden the public sector's incentive pay system in accordance with our financial options. The basic law, which, as I have already said, was adopted in 2002, was later amended and amended in 2004, so this basic law is part of a set of laws governing public administration relations, whose common objectives are to make public administration more rational, more efficient and more qualitative. However, the proposed amendments that we are considering today, amendments and additions+e, aim to accelerate the negotiation of the necessary collective agreements and the adoption of relevant sub-legislative acts and also to address issues that have not been sufficiently addressed in the law in force. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we join the Government's view that all data on salaries, including individual payments, must be made available to the public because they are payments from public funds. It also seems very important to us that the problem of paying a certain number of high salaries of directors is resolved as soon as possible and that this prevents unjustifiedly high wages and rewards. In order to effectively enforce this law, a decision on the classification of posts in payment classes must also be adopted as soon as possible, which I have already mentioned in the introduction. We expect the government to be sent to the National Assembly as soon as possible. We welcome and support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We believe that the law in question will regulate a stable system of public sector wages and will bring more order and transparency into wage relations, as well as appropriate arrangements for the promotion and encouragement of successful work. The proposed amendments and additions also mean easier and faster enforcement of the law, but do not affect the existing concept and purpose of the law, which has been in force for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr Davorin Terčon will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u164	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia does not oppose the amendment of the law on the public sector wage system, as the novel was created as a result of social dialogue. The unions supported it almost entirely; the agreement was signed by 20 of the 25 unions. The Club welcomes both the Government's efforts and the willingness of trade unions to pursue the fundamental macroeconomic objective of the Republic of Slovenia with responsibility for national interests by agreeing on a way of harmonising wages with July 1st, namely sustainable wage growth, reducing inflation and thus meeting the conditions for inclusion in the euro area. The LDS Club fully supports that part of the bill's proposal concerning the determination of salaries and practices in the event of illegality, the establishment of the starting salary and salary scales, and the modification of the ranges, the means to eliminate imbalances and progress. With regard to the remaining parts relating to the classification of payment classes, the public's wages and the resolution of the executive's extraordinary salaries, we have submitted and have some comments, which does not mean that we reject the proposed solutions. The LDS sent out a proposal to regulate the situation in the judiciary brought by the Council of Justice. We are of the opinion in the House of Members that the positions of all officials in the wage class must be regulated in a comparable manner, and that the State Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney General's Office cannot be exceptions. Unfortunately, we note that the proposal of the Judicial Council has not been taken into account. We also supported the proposal of the Social Democrats' Group of Members that the imbalance between the wages of cultural workers and other civil servants should be addressed in a more rapid manner, as stipulated by the law for the other categories, but not supported. We are pleased that the drafter of the law has taken account of the comments on the public pay. At the parliamentary club, we fully agree with the bill's proponent that these data represent information of a public nature and do not enjoy the privilege of personal data. We have pointed out that after most of this data, they will not show the right situation, since the individual’s wages may be burdened by personal obligations. The height also depends on, for example, dependent family members and others. As regards the regulation of the executive executives' executive salaries, we hope that the proposed regime will have almost immediate effects, since the mode of limiting the ex-excessive salaries that we have undertaken in the previous term has proved to be slow and, in some cases, difficult. However, we would point out that the government is likely to face restrictions on other rules in the regulation of extenuating wages regardless of the solutions proposed. For example, whether certain wages can be limited on the basis of labour rules. Some directors not only perform on-calls but also, for example, a third of the work obligation and others. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group or in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Social Democrats' parliamentary group will break the bill. That is why there are three main reasons. Firstly, the law was adopted in 2002 and it is high time to start implementing. Since objective obstacles to the implementation of the law and the introduction of a new wage system in public administration are also in the law in force, it is right to remove these reasons by amending and supplementing them. Secondly, since it is one of the few laws that in many ways brings justified and useful corrections and does not change the concept of the law, which is, as a rule, the practice of the current government: to change conceptually and fundamentally everything that has been in force so far. That's not what this law is about, and that's good. It would be right for the government to approach other issues mainly for reasons of easier and better policy implementation, but not to try to adapt policy concepts in particular to new values and concepts, this is the new political direction and ideology of the government coalition. In particular, we are pleased that the proposed amendments follow the current wage policy of the public sector as a whole and contain provisions that will also allow supervision on the salaries of directors of public institutions, where the greatest number of illegality and anomalies in wages have been found. And the third time. In particular, we welcome the fact that at least the Minister of Public Administration has followed the existing law-making policy and the government's promises to take social dialogue into account, and has prepared the law not only in cooperation with the social partners, but also in their majority agreement. It is right to stress this, since we regularly criticize the government and the specific ministers who do not. We are convinced that cooperation with the social partners is worth the effort and time, as the result and quality of the proposed solution and the law is significantly better and its implementation is more effective. Regrettably, the government does not do so and is warned that it is bad, deceitful, narrates, and speaks the truth, or even accuses the one who warns. On the proposal of the unions, which was also taken up by the Council of State, we have tried to clarify the provision on the gradual elimination of wage imbalances, which the trade unions have explicitly supported, and the government has not agreed to do so. Since Minister Virant has also promised that the elimination of imbalances will not be tolerated in the last year, this is in 2009, but that the imbalances in salaries will be eliminated in the years 2006 to 2009, each year at 1 and 25% of the imbalances identified, the rejection of the amendment cannot be a reason for not supporting the law. With the support of the law, we want the new wage policy, conceptually set out in the previous mandate of the Ministry of Interior and Government, to begin to work as successfully as possible in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Run. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The area of public sector wages is of fundamental importance in all countries. On the one hand, it is up to them, whether we want to admit it or not, also the quality of services provided by public servants. On the other hand, it has strong macroeconomic and public financial effects. The provisions of the existing law adopted by the National Assembly in the previous term are, as we all note, the remaining dead letters on paper and with these amendments and additions try to revive them slowly and give them some opportunity to also determine concrete content. In particular, care should be taken to ensure that appropriate relations are established here, which will have an encouraging effect on public sector employees. With Novi Slovenije, we have always advocated the elimination of imbalances and certain controls over the highest wages in the public sector. Above all, there will be much more to be done here in the sense of not being accommodating and working public servants, those who are ready for additional education are becoming apathetic when looking at those others who, in fact, have a state society, the work effect is not so important, it is important that only one in five comes for a salary. This is in the public sector, we must not close our eyes, much less everywhere, it depends also on management skills, on the managerial ability of the responsible person to lead. The novel will therefore introduce a better solution with regard to the stimulating part of the salary according to the existing law so that more than twice a year can be paid. Furthermore, promotion to higher classes is related to work performance and, in the case of promotion to a more demanding job, a public servant retains the pay grade that he had prior to his promotion. In Novi Slovenije we will also insist in the future that payments are regulated in a uniform, transparent manner throughout the public sector. We also support solutions to regulate sanctions in the event of illegality in the conclusion of employment contracts and wages. In particular, a provision in the part where the employer has to give a public servant or an official a written explanation explaining the basis for determining his salary and the amount of his individual parts, since it has often appeared in practice to operate only with the numbers, with some additions with which the majority of job seekers at the time of the individual’s employment, are difficult to represent in fact what their salary is in the amount. The novel also sets out which amount the civil servant and the official will pay. Here, Mr Terchoon, who has had a presentation by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, seems to me to have made some sense that this is their solution. No, the government had already taken the initiative itself, and the common solution on the committee was then the conclusion that this would be the total gross salary, without a reduction for possible deductions. So it was only a beautiful addition, and we in the New Slovenia Group supported it. A particular problem thus far has been the abnormally rising wages, the high wages. Therefore, data show that there are payments of over a million and a half million, over two million, in particular to directors of public institutions, public funds, public agencies. These are often particularly unbalanced in comparison with other public servants employed in these bodies, as well as in comparison with some other salaries in equally highly responsible public functions. Therefore, we also feel it necessary to align the highest level in basic salaries with the judicial branch of government, which has so far not been aligned with the legislative and executive branch. This is also a solution that brings law. With this, I think we will give a special weight to this branch of power, and at the same time their responsibility will increase. Last but not least, it is very important that the law also implements an agreement with representative trade unions to harmonise wages with 1.7 by 2%. Therefore, our parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the law on the public sector wage system.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I also invite the representative of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Kristian Janc, to deliver the opinion of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are very pleased when such a bill comes into the National Assembly. In this area, we believe that there is a lot of confusion, disharmony and, above all, unreasonable relations, which need to be properly harmonised. The proposed amendments and the amendment of the law are intended to facilitate and accelerate negotiations for the conclusion of collective agreements and the preparation and harmonisation of all sub-legislative acts and to address issues which have not been sufficiently addressed in the law in force. Above all, such as the public record of the salaries of public officials and officials paid from the State budget and it is right that they are available to the public, and we also support this in the Slovenian People's Party. It is proposed that the transitional arrangements should prevent payments of salaries under the new law from being made unwarrantedly high payments of salaries and directors' prizes and should also set a deadline for their salaries to be adjusted in accordance with the new system. Very urgent. The draft law also regulates the issue of sanctions in the case of non-conclusion of contracts for employment and illegal payment of salaries, since the law does not provide that in the case of found illegality the amounts paid out should be abolished and the reimbursement of the amounts paid too much should be ensured. In accordance with the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the public sector unions, the draft law takes into account that this is essentially increased by 2%. The proposal for a law should regulate the way in which funds are collected and spent to address wage imbalances. As this imbalance has not yet begun to be resolved in 2004 and 2005, this part of the unused funds should be maintained and the possibility of their transfer should be anticipated in the following year. More flexibility is also proposed in the work of paying for work performance, which I also think is very smart and meaningful. It is true, however, that some of the decisions proposed by the Government are not the advantage of today's debate, Mr Minister. However, I believe that there is still a lot of coordination ahead of us in this 65-grade payment scale, which will be necessary, as the relationship between officials and government officials is deemed inappropriate by the Slovenian People's Party. Let me just make an example of the salaries of the sub-martials. These high awards are unacceptable compared to some others in this decree. I believe that there will be time to coordinate this and that the Minister will also consult with the coalition to harmonise this in a way that will be the most just or fairest of all these institutions. As of 1 July this year, the marriage novelty is expected to increase public sector wages by this 2%, as I said. We also limit the so-called "excessive" salaries of managers in public administration. The novelty is coordinated, which is very important, with most public sector unions. However, we propose to regulate sanctions in the event of illegality in the conclusion of employment contracts in payment of salaries. With regard to the problem of emerging or so-called excessive wages, the novel is a temporary solution, which, until the end of the public sector, sets the maximum ceiling, which is the highest pay grade. Your Honor! The Slovenian People's Party will also support this amendment and the amendment of the law in order to limit the number of high salaries of directors and to harmonise these salaries in the public sector, which has raised so much dust recently among citizens and I believe that it is also justified. It has been late that these salaries in the public sector should be adjusted to the state of Slovenia, compared to the Slovenian economy, because sometimes relationships are simply unacceptable. We will always support this in the Slovenian People's Party, which will be for the benefit of citizens, measures that will benefit taxpayers, and I believe that this is also the desire and will of the ministry or government. We are on the right track to resolve this properly and successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. The vote is closed. There were 50 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. On the exploratory proposal for the ratification of the 2003 Protocol to the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for the Remediation of Damage resulting from the 1992 oil blackout. Since the parent working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA ON THE RECIPROCAL REPRESENTATION OF THEIR COUNTRIES IN THEIR SUBMISSIONS IN THE COUNTRIES IN THE COUNTRIES OF TRAINING FOR THE VISSION OF AIR TRANSIT (VISION A), TRANSIT (VISION B) AND SHORT-TERM STAY (VIS C). As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, all of whom voted against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF LOTUS. The official consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially purified text of the offence law." We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the assembly will consider a proposal for a decision appointing the Director-General of RTV Slovenia and a proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First: (a) Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia. The proposal was presented by the Council of RTV Slovenia in agreement with the Council of RTV Slovenia, proposing that Mr Alex Štakul be appointed Director-General of RTV Slovenia. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. I begin by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A representative of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Yelen, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! Today, I would like to give my position to the DeSUS Group on the agreement to appoint the Director-General of RTV, Mr Alex Stakul. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the decision of the national assembly's home working body that the National Assembly will not give consent to the appointment of Mr Alex Stakul as Director-General of RTV Slovenia. We believe that it would not be appropriate for Mr Štakul to be confirmed by the mandate right now, as the RTV Programme Council, under the new RTV Act, Article 47, will have to assign a post to the Director-General no later than 15 days after its establishment. Even if we now agree to appoint Mr Statkull as Director-General of RTV, a tender procedure for the appointment of the Director-General of RTV Slovenia will have to be repeated in two or three months under the new RTV Act. We know that the term of office of the Director-General to date expires on 24.5.2005 and therefore there is no point in dealing with the two run-off procedures for the same job in such a short period of time. For all of this, we will not give consent to the appointment of Mr Stakul as Director-General of RTV. We are confident that, during this transitional period, we can resolve the matter by means of a v.d.-action, and Mr. candidate will be able to apply for a job in accordance with the provisions of the new law on RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We hear that the law on RTV has already been adopted in view of the explanation given by the Group of Members. But you do not want and regret the proposal to agree to the appointment of a new old director-general in the context of a much more current one and for the fate of the Slovenian media space of the current debate, the debate on the role of public broadcasting, which the government's proposal turns to state and government and ruling parliamentary majority depends on radio. Adding to this is the fact that the government hastens through its own public statements by amending the law also to prevent the appointment of a new leadership, it is therefore even more clear that it is targeting the full human resources, the programme takeover of the public institution. The Liberal Democracy Club also addressed the proposal for consensus in the light of the importance and position of the Council of RTV Slovenia in appointing the Director-General. So it's that body that you intend to completely devalue in the new RTV law. You haven't yet, but you intend to. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that the rejection of consent would also constitute a non-trust to the Council of the Public Institute. Maybe the world of RTV has made a good decision, we're allowing the possibility not to. He didn't have much choice, two candidates, two programs - and one swan singing over the institution. In short, we respect the autonomy of the world and do not want to interfere with their decisions, at least most of us do not. Perhaps the candidate chosen by the RTV Council and proposed to the National Assembly for confirmation is not ideal. Perhaps it is entangled in the current situation triggered by the ruling policy. But it was signed under the RTV development strategy until 2010, which was discussed by the Committee on the Culture of the National Assembly. And it is also signed under statistics that show that the financial situation on RTV is being remedied and that there is also an increase in the ratings and obedience of programmes, which in some segments, especially in documentary, educational and cultural programmes, is significantly higher than on other European public televisions. In short, the poles are being repaired, because the public office - I say - is not an easy complex. Even though the work on television may be sometimes unfriendly, not completely organised and difficult to compare with any economic service, the programmes are dignified, mostly professional and offer those content that we are not elsewhere and we will not get. In the Group of Members, we leave the assessment and the decision on agreement to individual Members and Members, although we can expect most of us to support the proposal for agreement to the Director-General of RTV.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aloyz Sok, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! In Novi Slovenije, four years ago, we supported Mr Štakul as Director-General of RTV, and I was involved in it myself, and I remember many debates and debates. There is no reason not to support it today, but since we are in a situation where the new law on RTV is under discussion and we have already completed the first reading of this law, there has also been a public presentation of opinions, and no later than two months any new law on RTV will be adopted. This law gives a new task to the programming board, as you know, and this new law will also give the Director-General a significantly higher mandate, and thus, of course, a significantly higher duty. In any event, in accordance with the new law, the invitation to tender for the Director-General of RTV should be repeated and, at this point, it does not seem reasonable for us to appoint a Director for a period of two or three months. For this reason, we will not vote in favour of consensus today, we will leave the newly-appointed programming world to remove this choice, and we will not oppose it if he chooses the candidate we are discussing today even then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Boštjan Zagorec, on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the RTV Slovenia proposal, but not that any political decision by the Slovenian National Party will be taken, but we will support this disagreement with the following facts. We have felt certain undemocraticity in running RTV to this day on our own, so we also have several cases. For example, in the broadcasts on which the central theme was deleted, the Slovenian National Party, as an advocate of those who object to any compensation deleted, was not invited. In a broadcast entitled Under the headlights whose red thread was a European Constitutional Treaty and we know that the Slovenian National Party was the only party that did not support this Treaty was not on this broadcast. Many of the letters we have sent to both editors and the Director-General of RTV have come across either other ears or we have received, I will say, very arrogantly responsible back what we think we are. Finally, we wonder whether the objectivity of reporting is not exactly the basis for public information and whether it is not the objectivity of reporting that public television is supposed to provide. All of these are reasons and you see that they are not political, why we will vote against today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Borut Saiovic, LDS, first entered the debate in the order of order.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, the debate will obviously be brief, because, despite the fact that all democratic decisions have not yet been taken, things are already well known. Television is becoming an obvious tool in the hands of politics and therefore there is nothing to add to it. Today, however, I will support the decision of the Council of the RTV Institute because, as long as it is still in its function, it is necessary to carry out its task and until then it must be trusted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u182	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! The decision whether to take into account the opinion of the Council of RTV Slovenia or not is today. This is an important matter. Otherwise, we can make excuses for a law that is not yet in force, let's just say it's already in force, but by this logic, I can make my own excuses for amendments that are not yet in existence, and I will, say, file them. And I'm going to make an amendment to divide this function into management, business and software. And then I can vote today for two of Mr Statkull's or for one, or against the other, or against both. That's how it goes. This law, which you say is already in force in what spirit, "spiritus movens", is, of course, something that certainly does not belong in the hall and is still the old law on RTV Slovenia, which, by the way, I must say, is bad and really needs to be changed. But you don't have to change it according to Murphy's rules, for the worse. It could be better, and this option is open, and it's still open. In a civilised society, however, we democratically take into account what is still in force, that is, the decision of the Council of RTV Slovenia, I will vote in favour of confirming the mandate of Mr Alex Stakul or anyone else would be in this case. The point is, those who work with him already know what they're proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich, SNS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you. I'm grateful to a colleague who just spoke for tying up everything that's happened in the past. New marriage, old marriage, what's valid, what's not valid. I know that in the five-, almost six-year experiences in this National Assembly, even considering the government, I have experienced that there have been certain shortcomings, that there have been certain mistakes and that there have been very independent talks about them, and that the minister was or was not responsible for them, and the minister has flown away. And if I look in this direction, we also have the right to say that from our own experience comes moments when you question the credibility of running an institution. And at this point, the person says, I will give a purely concrete example if we accept or confirm the adoption of the Constitutional Treaty of the European Constitution, where - and not now attack us again - where we are all where we are absolutely for - only one party, but this was the Slovenian National Party, she said, not rush, let's give it slowly - and where then in the evening the crazy conversation, how good it is and how nice it is to ratify, etc., is, of course, illogical that some medium does not confront two different people who think differently. The three of them thought the same thing and were smarter than each other, but the one who proves it is trying to prove that something is wrong, that we have to wait, that we have to be as careful as we are today, and that one is not invited. So, I'm comparing it to the same thing, the minister wanted well, someone did something bad, so the minister flew away. Unfortunately, in this life it is so under the existing law. I'm talking again, according to the existing law. Of course, then we can be unjust. The existing law allows, as respected colleague Gulič said - but, I will vote the opposite - two people, two functions; the proposals in the new law are different, each looking at something different. The Slovenian national party is - and I am proud to say this - a party whose name I have been a member for many years and is with the longest internship and has always tried to contribute well to this country, but many times, although she thought well that she wanted well, she was neglected. And that affects us, because, not least, as we said, the media are the ones who draw public opinion. We want to or we don't want to. But we were disappointed about it and, as we said in the law, that we want changes that can bring good or bad, as this country has determined that from a 12-year-old power of one political option, we turn power into another political option, so we all have the right to think that some options change. For this reason, I speak on my behalf and, on behalf of colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the proposal that was given. However, it does not seem particularly fair and fair to me because it just says that there were two candidates, and that by most votes in the world one was chosen and his information, name and surname were given, etc., but we do not know who the other was. We don't know. We don't know what another candidate was like. But if it's true that the world is the one he calls it, and we're only here to confirm someone, then I don't even know why we're talking about it. So, the changes, colleagues and colleagues, are necessary, everyone thinks about these changes in their own way, I personally and of course on behalf of colleagues and colleagues think that these changes are necessary, so we will not confirm the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u186	I will explain my vote and, in this regard, only as President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, I will present that, of course, the treatment of radio broadcasting, as Mr Stakul represented at one of the meetings, has shown that radio broadcasting is in the middle of the implementation of the rehabilitation programme. The figures show some progress in this direction, and even more so in view of the expected conclusions or conclusions of the Supervisory Committee, as well as on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, further action required can be expected to take place on RTV. What you are likely to vote today will, if not otherwise, at least stop this process. This process of rehabilitation of the public Radiotelevision of Slovenia is of course a task, carried out by a team, this team was granted a mandate some time ago, now with the decision of the RTV Council has been given a new mandate. And our basic question that we are deciding today is whether we trust this RTV world in some way or the figures that have been presented both on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as well as on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, when we get acquainted with the report of the Supervisory Board, we believe that we will simply cut off the candidate, have some governmentlessness in the coming months, in which of course legal changes will take place, seek new candidates and, of course, will not be implemented during that time. That is why, of course, I think that the right candidate, given the work programme and visions presented for the development of Radiotelevision of Slovenia and the decision-making of the RTV world, would be supported, but of course, we will be pleased to examine carefully the new candidate's programme of work and the vision of the development of the public Radiotelevision of Slovenia. I am afraid that in view of the stories already told by the Prime Minister, what is and what is not, what is, and what television should be like, that this programme will be quite impoverished and will be written in some other circles, not in the Radio Television of Slovenia itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, my friend! At the same time, the National Assembly has limited power and responsibility in the process of appointing the Director of the Public Institute of RTV, as far as I am concerned. So I'm surprised that someone's wondering what we're talking about here and why we're talking if it's not us who's choosing the director. According to the only law in force, this procedure runs in the world of RTV and the National Assembly gives this consent, which is a kind of veto to the decision of the world. The National Assembly had already done this once, but at the time it weighed among the eyewitnesses that appeared regarding the operation of the then leadership. [[It was the current director, Mr. Chadez, who was also trying to renew the mandate]] , and weighed during the Council's proposal to renew the mandate. At that time, the National Assembly held a number of discussions and did not finally give consent to the appointment of Chad. So he took away what the world was proposing. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u189	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Those concerned, even in greater silence, would not want to hear it, so this warning is far too much. What happened this time? The mandate-election commission did not say, nor did it say, when this proposal was considered, but the ruling coalition simply voted against it. Today we heard an argument about why. This argument, however, is deeply concerned because it shows an understanding of what is being applied under the general rule of law. What we have heard here today is that it makes no sense to appoint a director because the law will be amended. We have also heard that there is complete knowledge of what this marriage will be like. I ask you, my fellow Members, who have represented not your views, but the views of the parliamentary groups, and this was both for Mr Jelen and for Mr Sok, which is why this debate on the adoption of the law serves. Why, if you don't allow the possibility that a marriage could change into anything. What worries is that you do not really want to understand that the law in force applies even if you disagree with it. What you should have done if you had your own director and if you were to exercise your power, you would have asked him to apply. You didn't do it. Unlike the law that prepared the basis for the discharge of officials, this is essentially the failure of the Director to prepare the basis for the adoption of the law. And that's what's really wrong. You create a bad situation in a public institution so that you can have arguments for the adoption of a law. Betraying you, I'll say, not only argument, but also language. Mr. Yellen said we can solve this with a v.d.-action. I'm worried about that, too. appoints the world, not the coalition after the law now in force. The arguments and language are those with which we operate in this room, and the arguments and language convince me to oppose these ideas of yours. Mr. Stikul is not easy to defend or stand behind. I almost don't know a man who'd be pleased either with him or with his subjects. But that's not an argument against him either. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, by arrogantly demonstrating your power in appointing this Director of the Public Service, you are trampling on these basic principles of understanding the rule of law and these necessary situations of stability in the public sector. That's what you do! Even if we wanted to make a real difference, in future and final provisions we could allow some time to resolve the transition to a new director. That's what the legislation makes possible. But what is the situation of this appointment is that you use all the levers to destabilize part of the system so that you can then fully control it. It is imperative to say this, by not naming, that you take responsibility for potentially poorer results in this institution and so on. Simply, past the current law, by ignoring the law you destabilise the public office and this must be publicly opposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Please, you have a replica, have you been named? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u192	Of course, I would like to say to my colleague, that the National Assembly is the institution that can or will not give consent. And, of course, he doesn't have to tell him why and why, like the world doesn't have to tell the institution, why he chose a candidate, why he didn't. They simply voted on the basis of some facts that we do not know and decided to propose to the National Assembly Mr Stakul. So that, of course, with the rule of law as you see it, there is nothing to do. Unlike how you sometimes did, when you simply voted, we honestly said the reason why it does not seem reasonable to give us consent today. Nor did anyone claim what was said to be a new law already passed. Of course, it is not accepted, we do not know if it will be adopted in the form it was in the first reading, because we did have a public debate; but the fact is, and we all note that the current law needs to be corrected. And if we want to correct it, then, of course, it is reasonable to expect that this new law on RTV, and if the programming council will have this opportunity and this function to appoint itself without the consent of the National Assembly of Directors of RTV, then, of course, it is our belief that the programming board will have to allow this function to do so, or we will have another procedure and complications in two months if today we give this agreement to Mr Štacula. This was just the argument of New Slovenia, which we have honestly said, but of course this seems controversial to you, I don't know, legally questionable, you say we have a material basis and I don't know what else. So, at the same time, you're talking about some long language that's gonna betray us. Of course, you too have this kind of "long language" that says a lot about your character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Skull. A replica of a replica would be that? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u194	I did not speak of Mr Sok's position, but rather of the position of the Group of Members represented by Mr Sok. He doesn't run away from me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u195	Just a minute. Mr Sok, as I understand it, finally stressed that he spoke on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u196	The task force is difficult to replicate, but it doesn't bother me. What is applicable to this explanation provided by Mr Sok either in his or on behalf of the Group of Members is only the following. First time. That you voted first in this case, but only after a few days have you expressed your views, it seems unacceptable to me. Another time. That the National Assembly must always have some arguments when making decisions. Third time. This was not the last confirmation of the Constitutional Court in one, I will say, a similar case when the National Assembly did not elect one judge in the Supreme Court, and he had to repeat the proceedings accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the proposer, Vice-President of the Council of RTV Slovenia, Professor Dr. Tone Ploy. I welcome him to the National Assembly. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. Today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u199	Mr. Professor, can I ask you a favor? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u200	The Radio Television Act is now in force, the statute of Radio Television of Slovenia is now in force. This world of Radiotelevision of Slovenia has been legitimately elected and not everything is as bad as I heard here today. I'd like to get out of this house when I'm on TV listening to your discussions so there's more patience. The common goal of all of us must be to be better informed in this country, in this country, more satisfied. I am convinced that the Council has fully legitimately carried out all the legislative provisions and has called for elections for the Director-General because his term of office is due to expire. Two candidates applied and, by a majority of votes, he was elected Director-General, Mr Stakul. Today it is in your mind to give your consent or not to give it to him, that is a matter of every individual and his conscience. However, I am convinced that today the mountain is shaking and that a great deal of dust is being raised in this society under the radio broadcasting law completely without need. The overall objective of all of us must be the same: better information and greater democraticism in expressing a general public opinion. The Council convened an extraordinary meeting for tomorrow, and we will give Mr Stacula the status of acting until you adopt a new law here. As long as this law applies and this statute, it is the duty of the Council to propose to you the approval of the Director-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate and put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint Mr Alex Stakul as Director-General of RTV Slovenia for a period of four years. You want to explain your voice? First, on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Barovich, Mr. Potch. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you. Once again, I stress that on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, we will not confirm the proposed decision. This is very important. I didn't say we'd object. Explanation. Make sure you don't say it's just politics. Once again, I stress whether the consent of the world under the current legislation has been expressed and given, and why we must give our consent here. Got it, got it, got it. They'd give it to you. But when we talked a few days ago about a proposal for a new law that's not credible at this point, we're from some people. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Colleagues, please, we'll be done soon, and I'll listen to you too! And from some of the people in the world who voted as director, we have heard concerns about the director here. [[...]] And how can we be credible now that people in one breath speak that way, speaking that way in another breath. And you will not say, because I gave an example, explicit, of the work of the information programme specifically of the Slovenian National Party, because there were also other people, there were people from the programme being played, from the documentary program, people working and living in this institution who had concerns, but at the same time we find that these people were supposed to be represented in the world, and they were all somehow unanimous. We cannot, my fellow Members, simply cannot hear on one side the conclusion of the world where there are some representatives - that when these same representatives are here, they doubt or even speak - they do not. But let us be the scapegoats and say not least, "Yes, the National Assembly has given its consent, and so it is." Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not confirm the decision in order to try to become clear and understandable against everything we have heard. But if we have spoken and heard in connection with the proposal for a new law, one or the other, it is not our fault and neither have we "set up" in our own words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch, on behalf of your Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr President or President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democracy Group, we decided not to take part in the debate because we were aware that this debate would be a mere diversion and farce. We know what this is all about. The ruling coalition has decided to understand that the law exists, that it is irrelevant, what are the actual powers of the Director-General or what are not, what are the powers of the Council, which are not. It is necessary to put in place the policy they have identified. At first, we thought that this would be at least in a much more dignified way and that it probably would not be necessary to participate. However, since so many irregularities have been made, I would like to say that we believe that we must take into account the fact that we have the law, and in this law we have the authority of the world and the national assembly. One may not like it, but it is so that we also have the chosen world and the flow of time because the invitation to tender was needed. If any of the existing ruling coalition wanted and thought that the appointment, the proposal should be stopped, the world would be committed to not having an invitation to tender and would be committed to not being a proposed candidate in the world. This should be done in a different way, in public, in the home and it would no longer be nice, so this has not been done. To say today that the Director-General has influenced which party has come into a programme means to talk about a matter that is not within the competence of either the Director-General or the world, but it is true that it is likely that if the law is passed as it is now proposed by the Government, that it will all be in the hands of more than one person or less and that it will be the Director-General appointed under the criteria that will fully meet the ruling coalition. Today, the Prime Minister spoke very sympathetically about how very democratic it is when he appoints a future council of state and what he appoints a national assembly, including judges, constitutional judges and someone else. By the way, he forgot just one little thing, and he didn't forget it, he just pretended to be. In fact, whoever proposes and of whom it is then decided and in many cases proposes either a judicial council or a President of the Republic, the Sušnik Commission of Elections with a government majority will propose here. We'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We are moving on to an explanation for the vote of individual Members. Mr Gulic has the floor. Who raised their hand first? Mr. Skull, then Mrs. Shirtz. Maybe? Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u206	My time is running out, but I won't worry because I think I'll be able to say this faster. Mr Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! There was so much to hear. In order to vote for Mr Štakul, I was convinced by the representative of the RTV Council, who had already announced the report on tomorrow's meeting, which was sometimes quite common that we had records before the meetings. Well, it's not like that nowadays, but it's obvious. This is the report from the session on the publication of our pre-trial liquidation of Mr Stakul on the basis of the future retro law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I would like to say myself that we have literally returned to the future. The representative of the RTV world knew what we had to work for at least one moment so that it might not happen. He knew that. He said there would be an RTV meeting tomorrow, and he said that they would be in line with your wish to appoint Mr. Stacula as V.d. Director. This return to the future is truly terrifying, and this is also the greatest demonstration of how that law, which we do not know yet, will not be, nor will it ever be, accepted, but will work in advance. I'll support Mr. Stikul, black with a heavy hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u210	My hand's not heavy. I will support the appointment and decision of the Council of RTV Slovenia, which supports the current Director-General of Television Slovenia, also because of the numerous advances and demonstration and clear staff statements that take place in advance and on the public stage. I respect the existing law, we are turning and acting today under this law. And I want RTV Slovenia to continue to represent content so democratically. After all, even from the direction of the Director-General, there is a TV width that depends on not being caught in the trap that we have heard from the Prime Minister in our reply today that in future RTV Slovenia will no longer need to count any bomb that falls 10,000 kilometres away from our soil.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members, Members of Parliament! I have today at this vote a bitter feeling like when we have chosen or tried to elect Judge Škrkova. Something similar is happening in this congregation today. I will support his election for at least three reasons. The first reason is that the proposal we have received is legitimate and even legal. The second is that Mr Štakul performed several times in the National Assembly, or in the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, to very well represent the interests of his house, to prepare the house to have some of his development programmes, to reduce those debts that the house had. However, I find it extremely irresponsible, given what has been happening in the house and if I have been disappointed as a policy on the programme, that this is why I blame the director and then threaten him in some way. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a public institution with more than 20 billion budgets and more than 3,000 employees and my assessment, because, unlike you, I have been in here for a long time, since 1991, the director of Alex Stakul has been one of the best directors of her RTV house. Otherwise, according to my opening remarks, I can say: the dogs bark, the caravan goes on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u214	I will not support the proposal of the RTV Council, nor the proposal of the parent working body, because I do not want to do Mr Statkull bear service in the first place, because I do not believe that he is able to adapt so much to the demands that threaten him every day through the performances of the Prime Minister through the performances of the Prime Minister, through the performances of some Members how to make him new on this television. However, if he is able to adapt, then, of course, he cannot earn my vote in any way, because, of course, what has happened in all past years and that the financial situation, the financial functioning of the public service RTV, has improved, is due in particular to the changed way of collecting RTV contributions. Far from changing anything essential in the house. And secondly, I don't want to do services to the ruling coalition, so that if a miracle happens, and today Mr. Stakul is confirmed to say, "Yes, look, because you see, because it's not so bad, because we don't have such a terrible intention now that everything that's been predicted here since 1992 will happen to this institution." The time is coming for us to say, "But you see also the opposition Members, we have succeeded in correcting the impression that may have been wrong. "There are plans for changes in the public office such or different; whether they will be such as they are now in law or not. I'm sure some of them will get worse. That's why I don't mean by my beautiful cooperation to vote for or against [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr Stakul, for what is important - and therefore I will not vote in favour of either proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll support the proposal of my mother's working body myself. In this decision, however, he supported me, and I think that the Vice-President of the RTV Council, when he said that a meeting of the Council was convened tomorrow to decide on the role of the current Director. It is said that he has preconceived something that we will only do, and I think it shows the democraticity of the decision-making, the references and the world of RTV.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Look, let's ask ourselves why today we're even faced with the fact that we have to vote on a man I really appreciate, I know he's been trying to establish order on radio television. To the extent that he succeeded in an impossible marriage, this is what we are expected to judge today by this vote. Let me make it public that my voice will be just a voice against us facing this at all. Vote against the need for the National Assembly to play a role in giving political consent to someone who is confirmed by the public broadcasters. And who, of course, has established such a law in this part of this consensus, which has also been politically criticised by the European Union - gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy, who today are moving forward and of course are saying everything they can. However, the fact is that if you look at what the journalists say, read about their law and the mechanisms that are in their law and in particular the LDS's vote on their law, Uroš Slak's opinion, then the president of the company of journalists on RTV Slovenia, when he wrote "LDS is the only party that is striving to establish government television with its actions." So much for who's cheating and who's not. And my voice will be against this deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you, President. I will vote against the decision of the parent working body or consent to the appointment for two reasons. First of all, the extraordinary calling of the world tomorrow will be meaningless. If we give our consent today, tomorrow the world, Comrade Bajc, will not. And secondly, because our legislative path will be to enacting the RTV law, as the coalition wants it, is still long. For all the means will be used, all the ways that such a law will not be brought into force, but we will find ways to improve it. And then that perhaps you, who are forcing the Director-General to act today, would not seek precisely this argument in order to speed up the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you. We're voting. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I've read it before, and I'll read it again. I'm sorry. I just read it. When I conclude the debate, I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint Mr Alex Stakul as Director-General of RTV Slovenia for a period of four years. Satisfied? We're voting. I note that from 71 Members and Members present, 19 votes to 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I'd like you to calm down so we can proceed with the agenda. We continue with the agenda, namely the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. A fairow on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, in the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia we will not be able to make such a proposal and we cannot support it. One of the main reasons is that not everyone will be represented on the same scale or on the same scale as the electorate in the elections. In these elections, the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia received more than a quarter of the votes, and this is again one of the important bodies in which we have no member. This is said to be a coalition roller sweeping unrelentingly forward, of course one of the familiar points of the previous reference, when they were reversed, but our mistakes, if they were never as great as they were today. The Slovenian Compensation Society will be, because of the rich denationalisation that we hear will not yet be and will not be over, that is to say, our grandchildren, and our children will obviously be paying for some injustices and, of course, in order to ensure that big money reaches the public treasury, there is also a need to ensure an appropriate impact in this area, which I do not think is good. The Supervisory Committee is the one who, of course, exercises control over the work of this company, so everyone in this Slovenian budget should be represented. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u223	Please be respectful of your fellow Member and allow him to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your support. Since I can see that the availability of the majority's taxpayer's money or the government coalition in this national council is not very interested, I will only conclude with this idea. Of course, in the light of future generations, you will have to take over the deficit, which will be estimated at over a billion euros. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will act in a state-of-the-art manner and we will oppose this proposal, which excludes some citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Dushan Kumer. On behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. The decision or selection of new members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society was made at the two continuations of the Pharsa mandate-holder commission, which may have its place in a documentary broadcast with a subtitle of the dossier, when RTV will also become a state or government television, as the Slovenian Compensation Society becomes a government or coalition company. It was a complete cow trade by a government coalition which, contrary to experience in the past term, does not allow the biggest opposition parties, who have 33 members and Members of Parliament, to be allowed no member of the Court's Supervisory Committee. Let me remind you. In the previous term, an agreement was reached between the position and the opposition on the opposition's representation on the SOD Supervisory Committee and is a coalition of Slovenia, according to the SDS and NSI, which together had 22 members, one member was assured, although the opposition also had SMS and SNS, because representatives of both SDS and NSI insisted and claimed that they were the real representatives of the opposition at the time. So, too, the coalition's human resources move only confirms that they have decided to continue their campaign against the institutions aggressively and uncompromisingly. How important it is that you control the Court and Kad, the ruling coalition demonstrated weeks ago when Petrol’s owners met and set up their entire government supervisory board with a quarter share of capital, in a way that is condescending and unfair to other owners. Some would say a roller coaster. This visit to institutions, first to the pension and health insurance company, then to Triglav, to the Court, to Kad, to the Maribor Bank, to health homes, to the hospital, to the prosecution, to television, and could also mention, should be the enforcement of the promise that this government will really start withdrawing from the economy. Larry Fari. The current government and coalition policy is going in the opposite direction. So today you can also read the position of one of the prominent representatives of the government strategic council. It is with the recruitment of the Coalition and the Government to prove that they are making great efforts to ensure greater political influence through Spda and Kad, which ends in larger economic corporations. And one more thing, when you take a closer look at the names of appointed supervisors and members of administrations, you will find out something quickly, today this figure is approaching about 100, that it is not only a matter of greater influence of policy under the pretext of professionalism in companies, but that it is a matter of greater direct influence of political parties through these persons in companies, as most of them come from customer esteblishments in one way or another. As well as a large number of senior government officials, state secretaries and directors of offices who, according to Minister Virant, have to be politically compatible with the Minister, sit on important supervisory committees and councils of all major companies. This human resources offer, which we have on the table today, is a logical consequence of the human resources combination, which is being conducted from Gregorčič Street, from the cabinet of the Prime Minister, which does not, of course, mean that it is not legitimate. However, it is not hygienic when it comes to decisions in this National Assembly. The Group of Social Democrats will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u228	Thank you very much. As regards the proposal for five members of the Supervisory Committee of the Court, the proposal is the same as it was in the previous term. In the previous term, there was also one member from the opposition and four from the position. The proposal you have before you today is no different. As for the recruitment of the supervisory councils, where the government is in charge, we are in a situation where the opposition did not have any representatives in the previous term, while in this mandate the government also appoints representatives of the opposition to these supervisory councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Peca, please. Don't you? You're giving up. Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Would you like a word, Mr. Kumer? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I would like to reiterate my colleague Kumra's position that the appointment to this world is in fact proof of the current human resources policy of this government. It is formally true to speak of the opposition's representatives. At the same time, however, it is true that we know that there is a part of the human resources agreement, because at least as far as human resources solutions are concerned, it is the Slovenian National Party which supports government solutions and it is normal for it to get a place for this benefit. I am not saying that you are not, colleagues of the SNS in the opposition, that you will prove it every day or not, but as far as human resources policy is concerned, we know how it has been since the formation of the National Assembly and the government. Otherwise, it is a typical example of arrogance and a pattern of human resources policy of the coalition. I am pleased that we have not decided in the parliamentary group and in the party of the Social Democrats and we have not taken the initiative of Mr Janša to design and participate in the recruitment of the supervisory councils, because we see what would happen - every ten times we might get a fraction, and then we would speak as you do today that the opposition participates in the same way as in the previous mandate. And the last thing I was going to say was that Mr Sayovic said the same. Perhaps we should not be in the reparation fund either because for several years the compensation fund has not provided a concrete report on the billions - I repeat, billions! - the obligations it has at the expense of denationalisation and the fact that, following the last notification it has made a few years ago, it will not be able from the following year forward to fulfil its obligations to pay interest and compensation and will be transferred directly to the budget. However, the budget will have to pay them in a few, at least ten, and more years to come. As a result of this, of course, I will not support the proposal as it is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society for a period of four years. Who wants to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? Mag. Squeakle, here you go. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[Nobody.]] Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Today's debate or the lack of discussion on the appointment of a supervisory committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society shows two. For the first time, it shows that Members and Members are not really aware that the biggest deficit in Slovenian history is growing on Mali 5 Street. The deficit created there in 1991, 1992 by the adoption of a law on denationalisation, which I have no doubt will come to an end during the period of this government. The task of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society is to look at two main issues in the functioning of the Slovenian Indemnity Society: whether the denationalisation procedures are properly implemented and in these procedures, the pressure on public finances is minimised. In the past months, the company’s management was first recruited. The company was taken over by someone who is not considered by financial experts to be an expert either in corporate governance or a specialist in denationalisation. The board of directors was similarly staffed. Today, of course, five people are appointed here in the National Assembly to work on behalf of Slovenian taxpayers on how the Slovenian Compensation Society will minimize pressure on Slovenian public finances. According to various estimates, this pressure is already about a billion euros or 230, 240 billion tolars. Almost three times as much as is foreseen in the 2005 budget rebalancing. We need not doubt that the issue of the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society and the closure of its hole will be one of the more complex issues in the time of this government. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Therefore, in the opposition, it is so much more surprising that you arrogantly reject the proposal to have access to this information through the appointment of members of the Supervisory Committee from the entire political structure. [[...]] You've made a different decision. You'll have to bear your own responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u234	President, thank you so much for your word. I'm not going to back this decision on my own. But I am referring to the words that Mr Janša has spoken on this stage when he said he would include us in the supervisory boards in proportion, including the opposition. He said it in proportion. If anyone learns a little about mathematics, then he can calculate the following. We have distributed five seats for 90 Members, that is to say one to 18 Members, the position has four candidates and we have one, that is to say, according to its proportion, that we have 18 members of the opposition and 72 members of the opposition in the National Assembly. I think that such behavior is very bad, that it does not inspire any hope and that it shows the arrogance even more than we were told when we were in power, so it is no wonder that people say: the LDS was bad, but the SDS is now doing what is doing even worse. I think so. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Look, what I said earlier in the previous vote, whatever we do, whatever we say, our good students from the previous term with their roller coaster are moving forward and what I said earlier applies in the human resources policy position: dogs bark, caravans move on. [[...]] And I am sure that this proposal will also be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-18-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We're voting. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society for a period of four years. We're voting. I note that of the 71 members present, 49 votes to 21. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of item 2 of the agenda - this is to the third reading of the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia. On Tuesday 17.5.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you and at the same time remind you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 68 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 4. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! Goodbye!
