ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Bevk only, Miran Jerič, Dimitrij Kovacič, Dara Lavtišar Bebler and Alojz Posedel. I have invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and representatives of the Council of Justice to the 20th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 7.12.2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups propose to withdraw from the agenda consideration of the proposal for a law on professional and scientific addresses [[You received the proposal on the bench]] . Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I welcome the decision to withdraw this item from the agenda of this sitting. For the proposal of the law on professional and scientific titles, as it is prepared, is in the first place poor. I must say that we have already questioned this in fact when it came to the adoption of the basic law which is the basis for the proposal of the law on professional and scientific titles when it was adopted in 2004 in the National Assembly. Allow me to say only two of the most important points, or two of the points in the bill itself, which, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, is weak and unacceptable. The first is definitely an unequal situation with other European Union graduates. This has already been pointed out in the Slovenian National Party in 2004. In this regard, we have also received quite a few expert opinions when we have dealt with the law on the labour market. Moreover, the proposal, as before us Members, is not in fact clear transitions from the university study forward to the approach of a master's degree or doctoral study. Allow another important fact. According to the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia today, a Slovenian student studying undergraduate education who has not yet completed or obtained a diploma can study master's degree in Italy and receive a master's degree in science. You know, this is this unequal situation where we are today or today Slovenian students compared to foreign students. In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly support the proposal to withdraw this proposal from this session or from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Squires. Mr Mogue, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are between Scylla and the Caribbean, which means that this law should be adopted in any way for the sake of the students and for the professors who will be implementing these programmes. On the other hand, this law must also be viewed through the glasses of the entire population, including those who have already received that education. This disharmony, which is not being resolved in this law that you have proposed today to withdraw, but must be resolved in the Higher Education Act, is something that I think is entirely justified in supporting the withdrawal of this law. And it will be necessary, if not in this law, as some Members have proposed, to supplement, but unfortunately not adopted, the relationship between the titles and addresses to be obtained under the new law will also have to be aligned with those titles or addresses that have been allocated by the old title. That's why we support this retreat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Before we go to the vote, please ask the Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, which means that an orange light must be lit on the right side of the card, in which case the vote can be carried out. I note that there are no comments on the voting devices, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering the proposal for a decree on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their municipalities and the proposal for a decision to establish that each area does not meet the conditions for setting up or modifying the municipality. You received the Committee's proposal by letter of 13.12.2005. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together. Would you like a representative of the proposaler to expand the agenda? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on each individual proposal for enlargement. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum and the setting up of referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 12. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of the proposal for a decision finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of municipalities or for the modification of its area. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 14. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with amendments and amendments adopted. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 12th meeting of the assembly has been set. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly and continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u6	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 30 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the Groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Then the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Justice Dr Lovro Šturm and Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jure Zupan will answer the questions raised at the 10th and 11th meetings of the assembly, to which they did not respond due to their absence. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and ministers shall answer the questions within five minutes at the most; the same is true if the question is raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask a new question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak and Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel from 5 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question to which he has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you have received a review of the questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Miran Potč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u7	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The first round of coordination and public debate on the government's economic and social reform agenda is behind us. We may evaluate it differently, but the objective majority of reformers have not yet accepted it. For the purpose of negotiating and social partnership in the design of reforms, at the initiative of the vast majority of trade unions, 40,000 people gathered according to their data. However, the policybarometer shows that 84% of respondents have been surveyed against the increase in employers' rights in relation to the dismissal of employees 71% have been surveyed that only 50% have been surveyed against the abolition of progressive taxation of income, 56% have been investigated against the single tax rate, and only 50% have been investigated for increased privatization in health care. The overall estimate, however, declined from month to month and reached only 30% of support and 51% of non-support after the polythometer in November. These are objective assessments of these activities and responses in public. And since the government has certainly designed its assessments and objectives, Mr President, I ask you: Do you prescribe to the public the response to the proposed reforms a poor and superficial presentation, a lack of understanding of the effects or consequences on socially affected groups and social partners or the fact that some of the essential reform objectives and their consequences for an important part of citizens and citizens are simply not acceptable? Whether the government will, in response to low public support so far, provide only an accentuated media campaign for reforms, which has been announced or will soon and clearly state which measures are not necessary [[VAT, uniform tax rate]] As an example? Finally: What does the Government's stated willingness to deal with individual proposals mean, at the same time, when it finds that reforms represent the whole and are also the majority of the proposed measures linked to each other? Without answering this question, the promise that the National Assembly will decide on each bill separately does not mean much more than continuing the practice so far, that the coalition will reject all proposals in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, honourable Member, for your question. I'm glad he's referring to a key topic. I am also pleased that you no longer ask about church property than you did several times before. The fact is that the view of reforms is different, but there is no way that we could claim that the public is against reforms. Most of what the government has put within the framework of economic and social reforms is the Slovenian Democratic Party, including other parties that have defended in the coalition before the elections, which has been supported in the elections. This is recorded in the coalition contract, over 90% of the content of this framework is also the content of the coalition contract and this has received support on the only credible poll in democracy, these are elections. And with this support, the government goes on. We also measure public opinion. Since the beginning of the discussions on the need for reforms, there has been no significant change. More than 75% of people in Slovenia believe that reforms are necessary, but opinions are shared on some measures. Far from referring to most of the measures and far from public opinion, it is not against the necessary changes. Whether these measures are necessary depends on how we view them. There's absolutely nothing but death. We can do nothing, we can do what governments have done in the past, but then we will find ourselves in a situation where change will have to work in a significantly more unfavourable situation and also in a more unfavourable atmosphere. We can look across the border into neighbouring Italy. As they avoided reforms, economic growth in this country will be below 1% this year. We see how reforms are difficult or have been pursued in Germany, which is a major economic factor in Europe. Today, they must adopt a much stricter approach than it should have been if the reforms had taken place three or four years ago or when Chancellor Schroeder first suggested it. As far as opposition to certain measures is concerned, it is partly because people think differently, it is perfectly legitimate. Partly because the debate so far has not gone into detail, it will go into detail in the future phase when individual measures are proposed. But partly because these proposals have been taken exclusively politically and some of the opposition's parties are making anti-government policies out of this, which is completely legitimate and this is happening everywhere, not just with us. But it's not fair to hide it for civil society or for trade unions. Nor is it fair to talk about how the unions gathered 40,000 people in Ljubljana because, for the first time, the number did not hold, secondly, it was not just a union action, your party was co-organising this action. There is a newspaper of Social Democrats from Celje with a large invitation to a meeting in Ljubljana. I will read, it says: "We invite the members and sympathizers of the party of Social Democrats to attend the protest meeting against government policy, which will be held in Ljubljana on Saturday 26 November 2005. It's a free ride. The protest meeting is expected to take half an hour. Meet me at the station in Celje at this and this hour. Signature: Andrea Richter, Vice-President of the Social Democrats." So much for a non-political meeting and why the government doesn't take social partners into account. We take into account the social partners, we also take into account the opposition. We have twice proposed a discussion with the presidents of the parliamentary parties, you were present. During the first session, we took note of the overall reform framework; it was not possible to discuss that you had not yet become familiar with the content. At the second meeting, there was a debate on one measure since the 1970s; the others, as if it were not. So the government will continue [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all, I understand the question and the answers that the question ministers and the Prime Minister are answering the questions, but they are not assessing the content of the answer. You can take this right, but this is not a parliamentary custom. Second. In Social Democracy, we have had consecrations and positions in which we do not want to act against reforms, nor do we want to create any relationship or feeling that we will oppose or work against the proposed reforms. However, we believe and firmly believe that reforms cannot be achieved without the broadest dialogue and broadest agreement between all social groups, the vast majority, including trade unions. We regret that the government has so far failed to do so. He explained something to the representatives of the parties and explained something to the unions, it's not an agreement, it's not a content discussion yet, it's coming. Therefore, please explain further to me because you have not so far: Do you agree that without an agreement it is not possible to form a reform that could be productive and successful, which people or most people would accept as their own, because we probably want progress and prosperity, and the question is, who do we imagine can achieve it? To say whether you firmly believe that there is a need for unity in the reforms of the existence of government parties, not to blame another, but in fact also from the circle of government parties, we hear concerns about certain objectives and to tell us how you picture your work in Parliament, briefly present a programme whereby we will be obliged to follow the proposals of the measures that you will bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u13	The government will continue on the road as it has begun, we are firmly determined to implement these reforms, but at the same time we have decided that the part of the reforms that is most sensitive we are trying to harmonise as much as possible within the Economic and Social Council, because there is an organised area of dialogue between the social partners and the government has already sent the starting points for this dialogue to all those who participate in these talks within the framework of the Economic Social Council. We said that in the beginning, we repeated it ten times, so we don't have to ask that ten times. We do not expect that everything can be fully coordinated and that some movements can be made in such a way that there is 100% support. This call reminds me little of 1991, when it has also been said that we need all the calculations before we can make our own way and that we need to deal with Belgrade, otherwise we will not agree to independence. This was the position of some parties. Although we knew that Belgrade would never be dealt with and that it was not possible to have all the calculations in advance. Now it's a little bit like that. If my words do not convince me, I would try to convince the honourable Member, with the words of his President, Mr Pahor, who has answered this question very well. He said: "If the government tries to avoid reforms because social partners will face some opposition at the start of this dialogue and see them as an obstacle to the implementation of reforms and try to avoid reforms, it will make a huge mistake." President of Social Democrats, Borut Pahor, in the event and echo on Radio Slovenia. Then, Mr Pahor in Primorski News: "We must not succumb to the temptation to resist reforms." I hope that this opinion is respected. In the evening, Mr Pahor believes that many are unaware of the need for reforms and that the Social Democrats will be able to convince people that they are needed. We're very supportive. Mr Pahor in Magu: "I believe that the mature opposition is responsible for creating a social climate that will legitimize the necessity of fundamental change." So I expect, honourable Member, that if I did not convince you earlier that you are now the words of your own President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr President, I had no intention of creating a request for a debate on the response of the Prime Minister in the National Assembly, but I am now putting it on the table for the reason that, too, Mr Prime Minister will have to get used to answering the question slowly. For I know my client's views as well or better as he does, and it is right to know the position of the Prime Minister at the National Assembly, rather than the position of one of the party's presidents, whatever the case. You, Mr President, will have to get used to answering the content sooner or later, otherwise the President of the National Assembly will have to say that you do not really respect the rules of procedure and the obligations you have. I therefore propose that we decide whether we will hold a debate on the government's response in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 246 in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Run. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The second question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Anti-Money Laundering Office was established on 1.1.1995 with Chief Mr Strolig, who has been leading it from then on to now. To date, we have not experienced a positive solution, a matter proposed by Mr Stroligo, but the prosecution has always followed, as it appears, the mistaken Stroligo's assumptions and always his estate, spending state money and no effect. Finally, when Mr Stroligo received the case of Assembach's money from every instance of the court, he was temporarily seized in Cyprus because of the suspicion of money laundering around 11 million German marks. It means that money will be returned if it isn't, and of course, as far as it's concerned, there's going to be a lot of compensation. Interest will also have to be paid, which means that, given the approximately billion, little less than a billion and a half dollars that the country has already had to pay back, it is likely that only in this segment citizens and citizens will have to absorb a few billion more damage done by Mr Stroligo. As Mr Stroligo shows, he runs the same political office or political commission as Mr Kos, who now does not know how else to make political justification for his existence and has gone to criminalise one another for fraud, which has nothing to do with corruption, etc. Or, as a Maribor judge, Mrs. Roth in Maribor, after all, whose name in German means red. That means something, too, as it seems. The fact is that Mr Stroligo put to the debate or found that from 1995 to 2001 there were 1,476 transactions where money laundering was to take place. And it finally turned out that in no case did it happen. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a political institution and is the government also planning to do something in this area, review the functioning of this office and maybe replace the "head" of this office or close the office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you so much for asking. As the first Member of Parliament to ask questions has previously abused the Rules of Procedure, I am not saying that I will quote in my reply the one which seems to me to be a wise quote. If this is going to be the president of the Social Democrats, if he's going to make a good point, I'm just going to quote him. Just as I do not go into what questions Members will ask, of course, I cannot prescribe who I can quote and who I can't. As for the Money Laundering Office, perhaps some statistics first, given that the issue arises as if the Office does virtually nothing. According to the Office, this institution has dealt with 876 cases in 10 years due to the suspicion of money laundering. It completed 753 cases, or 86%, without the Office submitting any measures and 526 of these cases were completed by "ad acta", it said without action. 27 cases are such that suspicious transactions have been notified on suspicion of money laundering in the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, and in 37 cases information has been sent on suspicion of service of certain offences, which is also the duty of the Office if such acts occur. Today, the Office is still dealing with 123 suspicious transactions cases, not all in the area of money laundering. In 2005, and in the first 11 months of the year, the Office opened 111 new cases in accordance with the law, completed its analysis and handling in 98 cases, so that the cases were closed. Of these completed 98 cases, the Office is in most cases - it is said that 57 cases did not confirm the initial suspicion and were concluded without proceedings. In 27 cases this year, the Office identified certain grounds for suspicion of money laundering and forwarded 18 notifications to the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. In further 14 cases, the Office provided information on the suspicion of other crime services to other - state prosecutors, as well as to other state institutions. It follows from this statistics that the Office has dealt with a relatively large number of cases. Of those who proved to be reasonable, the Office acted in accordance with its powers. However, the fact is that very few cases have been concluded with a judicial judgment is true. But it's not the office that has the last word here. The proceedings go on to the police, the prosecution, or the prosecution. What's the situation here, what's the backlog, we know. I would now find it difficult, on the basis of the statistics and those data collected in one day, to judge whether the Office is actually the most responsible for the fact that it is seized in terms of legal judgements and final measures so low. With these reports to be prepared by the Office in one way or another, the government will examine the situation and find out the actual effectiveness of this body, I think that we need the Authority also because of the international obligations that the State has and, of course, decide whether any changes are necessary, such or otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The fact is that this office in its 17 employees in 10 years did not actually lead to a single case for the country of favourable conclusion. This indicates complete incompetence and at the expense of taxpayers. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister that it is not said right now, but that he is trying to give me a written answer to the financial burden that Slovenia had to bear due to the inability of this office and its director.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Can I help you, Mr. President? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u23	Each year, the Office shall draw up reports that are quite detailed. I think this data is in these reports, too. We can submit full reports, I don't think they're classified, but we can make more detailed statistics to show what you're asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. The next question will be asked by Dr. Mark Pavlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! One of the fundamental human rights is the right to health care. We provide it in particular with compulsory insurance, as well as with supplementary insurance, which he worked with by the end of the 1990s, and then from the funds of Slovenian taxpayers he established a mutual insurance company. As the name says, the Mutual should act on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity: all for one, one for all. Its mission should not be to make profits, but to ensure that the conditions, i.e. as low as possible, are met for its members. Unfortunately, each other is not thinking that way, but is thinking about making as much money as possible for a narrow financial elite. Apparently from his motto: I for you, you for me, turn into a model: you for me - I for myself. Therefore, it decided to produce illegal ownership certificates and thus make it possible to dispose of a security reserve belonging to all insurers. And more. In January, he wants to transform the Assembly into a company of shares, with the help of only 33-members, i.e. 0.003% of all insured persons. Mr. Janša, I ask you, obviously one Mercator is not enough. Tomorrow it's the Reciprocal, the day after tomorrow it's Luke Koper's turn, and then it's probably still the hard-earned property if there's anything left. Such an action The Mutual Strictly criticizes the profession, to mention only Prof. Ivanka, who I warn that we are going to play a dangerous game in which only some will become rich and the insured will lose enormously. It's more than a million hundred thousand insurance companies. And what the government does in all of this - wrinkles a little, so to speak nothing. What are the responsible ministers for health and finance doing? Nothing at all. Interestingly, however, Mr Janša, your customer magazine, which spits at all those who think otherwise, is more important, but in this particular case it advocates the leadership of the Mutual. It's a really great democracy. So I ask you, Mr Janša: What are you and what will you do to prevent the savage privatisation of the mutual insurance company? How are you going to protect the rights of more than a million 100,000 insurers? How will you prevent catastrophic damage not only from the country but also from our citizens and citizens? How are you likely to prevent one of the greatest frauds since our country's independence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you for asking. First of all, let me say that the Slovenian Democratic Party has a New Way, and what you have been showing there is not a New Way, but a magazine that is on the market and that has its owners, like all other media. As far as your question is concerned, I must say that I share some of my concerns with you. However, at this point in time, institutions in charge of insurance supervision, while some proceedings have also been initiated in the courts, have not yet said the last word. So the government or I personally, I don't think it can judge whether something is going in the direction that you're talking about and which is supposed to be illegal, or whether it's just in accordance with the rules and the law. Certain proceedings in the courts [[Runs after several procedures]] have been completed, some have not yet been completed. In order to eventually transform the Mutual into a Shareholder Society, it is necessary first to reach a conclusion of a Assembly that has not yet been adopted and also to require the consent or permission of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which has not yet been established. These institutions are studying the matter. The fact is that the mutual health insurance company was established as a non-profit insurance company with intergenerational reciprocity and must also work in this direction. As far as the government is concerned, it will take this direction. As much as it takes to propose a change of legislation, we will do so; the Ministry of Health announced this today. However, as Prime Minister, I would not like to prejudge decisions taken by independent institutions or courts. So I would also distance myself from some of the very categorical claims that were made here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u29	It is true, Prime Minister, that the Agency has launched a procedure to remedy the infringements with great delay, and this procedure is likely to last from four to five months and the Assembly is convened for a month of January. But let me remind you that supplementary health insurance under our legislation is a public interest under the Insurance Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act. The Insurance Supervisory Agency is concerned about the interests of insurers and the public interest is wider. And I ask you, can we leave it to some administrative authority, some agency, some office, if that's your responsibility? Only the government elected by the people cares about public interest in every democratic country. Let me remind you of that, Mr. Prime Minister. In fact, the Reciprocal in the last year, interesting, acts absolutely contrary to the principles of reciprocity. Let me just mention the number of insured more than 60,000 insured - as a result of which it was criminally charged by Mr Kos - to mention the first cancellation of 71 000 disability insurance for disabled persons and other victims at the Ministry of Labour [[They called it off later, though.]] , let us mention only the attempt to increase the premium for those most vulnerable and most affected people, older and sicker. All of this, of course, points to her illegal and illegal act. The opposition has tried to prevent the adoption of amendments to the Health Protection Act and has proposed that supplementary insurance be returned to the public service and, of course, failed with its proposals. That is why I ask you again, Prime Minister, that in the light of what I have said, and in the light of the silence of the state, which shows that you intend to leave each other to the private predators to reply to me in a complementary way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u31	Earlier, I had said that the government would ensure that this insurance company would also go in the direction it was established: as a non-profit insurance company with intergenerational reciprocity, and that there are mechanisms to ensure this. But it's not all there is - and I also said that I share your concern in part. When we collected data to answer your question, we came up with some conclusions that confirm certain claims, but there are procedures before independent agencies or courts, and if I now prejudged some views, that would not be correct. In part, what you are saying is also spoken by competing insurance companies, there is a fight in this market and it is very well to be considered, regulatory institutions must very well consider when it comes to lobbying, when it comes to competition fighting, because it is big money and big funds and very different receptions are used, when it is actually about protecting public interest. To the extent that it is also necessary to ensure the general interest, the protection of the interests of the insured, the Government is also willing to submit an amendment to the legislation if the existing mechanisms are not sufficient to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u33	In fact, the Prime Minister has already given me a starting point, and I hope that the fellow Members and Members will understand that, in accordance with Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose that we decide to hold a discussion at the next hearing or next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister. Indeed, it is a matter of public interest and I would like to point out that we, my fellow Members and Members, are directly responsible for the public interest. And because the President did not specifically answer how he would protect the interests of more than a million insurers, how he would prevent the privatisation of something that is ours. I repeat, the mutual insurance company was made from taxpayers' funds; it is not similar to other European global insurance companies that have been created as clubs or private cooperatives. At least let the National Assembly, as a last resort, have the last chance to discuss, for example, the special law on the transformation of mutual insurance. I think that's the least we can do. In fact, I remind you that all former Slovenian governments have been building a system where the provision of health care is public goods, where the provision of health care is in the light of the degree of solidarity and reciprocity. The new government obviously doesn't care about this solidarity well-being. Let me reiterate that the conversion of a mutual insurance company into a share company would mean that part of the premiums would be earmarked for profits, for dividends, which would mean either a substantially higher premium for insurers or a substantial reduction in their rights. Is this the provision of public interest laid down in the two laws mentioned above? I don't think so. And, as it is said, it goes and smells very strong for the fraud of the century. This must be clear to anyone who has at least a little sense of justice, regularity, justice and solidarity. And I'm afraid Mr Janša's government has not proved these virtues so far. Therefore, honourable Members, when we vote on my proposal tomorrow, please reconsider. The Prime Minister himself says he is ready to deal with some legislative proposal, let us give him a hand. Let us all join forces together and save more than a million affected Slovenians and Slovenians for God's sake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Pavlich to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jakob Preseknik will put the next question to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers and other members of the government are warmly welcomed! Likewise, fellow Members and fellow Members! Dear Prime Minister! The next June is approaching, which is 2006, when Slovenia will have to meet the Maastricht criteria in order to take over the euro. What are the government's expectations of meeting these criteria, especially with regard to inflation? In particular, will Slovenia also meet this criterion in June 2006? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you so much for asking. However, since it was again an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to the previous questioner, it is very clear that none of this has yet happened: neither has the Assembly adopted a decision to transform the Mutual into a Shareholder Society, even less so has the Agency agreed to do so. Therefore, to say that something has happened, that the place of the century has happened simply constitutes a deception to the public. On the issue of taking over the euro, I thank him. I am pleased that this High Council has noticed that Slovenia has practically already met the most difficult criteria to meet in order to introduce the European currency in early 2007. The fact is that the latest information on our inflation is only one-tenth of a percentage point above the Maastricht criterion and that the trend is so favourable that it is possible to predict that this condition will be met sooner than in the middle of the following year when a convergence report is drawn up. Given that we have remained conditions, it is true that the conditions relating to public debt, the conditions relating to the stability of the exchange rate - or we will meet that when we are in the euro waiting room for 2 years - that the rest of the conditions are not on the question that we are far beyond that we have better data than some countries that are already members of the European Monetary Union. There is no foreseeable danger that Slovenia would not meet this condition. At the moment, we are from three candidates for entry into the European Monetary Union, plus Estonia and Lithuania, far from being the best in the list of all the criteria. On our side, these conditions will be met. Others are also doing well, such as technical preparations for the takeover of the currency. There may be some problems due to the need for this convergence report, which will not be produced until the end of June, then the following year will also be formally adopted by the competent EU institutions and only after that can part of the preparation, including coin-making. However, we expect that this will also be possible so that Slovenia will actually enter the European currency on 1 January 2007. We also have a relatively fresh experience, because our tolar does not have such a long life span, we have done this once before - I mean technical performance in significantly more difficult circumstances and without any major complications. The government has also taken all necessary measures to ensure that the transition to the European currency does not affect the price rise, which is why we or we will introduce a relatively long dual price labelling that will last before and after the introduction of the euro. In this way, we will ensure that consumers can control prices themselves even in lower-pricing products, where in some European countries, when introducing the European currency, so-called rounding up took place and this was then known in the overall price rise. We've studied this experience. We want to avoid the mistakes made in some countries when the European currency was first introduced on this big boom. That's not how we expect it. There shouldn't be this negative effect here. In this regard, we also call for understanding of this double price labelling measure, which will result in some additional costs, but far from being the same as it has been written for some time. Remember the times of high inflation when they changed prices every day; they will now need to be done several times in this period and this will not present a major problem or a major cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u39	Or procedural, in Slovenian. You know, Mr. Janša, if you tell me and my esteemed colleague that we have violated the rules of procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u40	Mr Pavliha, I ask you to follow the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u41	Yeah, it's procedural. I would like to know: In what part of the Rules of Procedure I broke, because I was merely quoting the works of distinguished authors, such as Professor Ivanka, Professor Pahor, and I could also list, not least I wrote the book myself on this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u42	Please refer the question to the Business Commission, Mr Pavliha. This is not in accordance with the rules of procedure, this is abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u43	But this is that Mr President is making it clear to others that we are in breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u44	Mr. Pavlich, I took your word. And please don't take it when the chairman doesn't give it to you. This concludes the questions addressed to the Prime Minister. At the 10th and 11th meetings of the National Assembly are Ambassador Dara Lavtijar Bebler and members of mags. Borut Sajovic, Matjaž Han and Ambassador Breda Pečan asked questions from the Foreign Minister Dr Dimitri Rupl, Minister of Justice Dr. Lovr Šturm and Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Dr. Juret Zupan. These ministers were not present at the meeting and, as Members requested an oral response, they will receive it today. First of all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, will answer Mrs Darje Lavtijar Bebler's question on resolving open border issues with the Republic of Croatia. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret that Mrs Ambassador is not with us, but I will take advantage of the opportunity you have given me. Therefore, the Member State asks whether it would be wrong for the Government or the foreign ministry to take into account the recommendations made by the President of the Republic or the Presidents of the two republics, Drnovsk and Mesić, and to stop talking about the possibility that an agreement on border issues could be reached through negotiations, but that it would be right if we tried arbitration. In this regard, I must say that foreign policy is governed by our Constitution and laws by the National Assembly and the Government is acting on the basis and within these guidelines. The National Assembly, Mr President, has not yet adopted any decision or decision on the resolution of the border issue with Croatia by means of a third, including arbitration. There is no decision to stop attempts to reach a bilateral agreement on the border issue with Croatia. Of course, the questions asked by Mrs Bebler are legitimate. However, I would point out that it is particularly advisable for foreign policy to act unanimously, by consensus at national level. In this respect, we have recently adopted a regulation in the government called the Regulation on Cooperation, Information and Coordination in the field of external matters. The past practice, Mr President, shows that it is not unusual for the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries to try to reach a solution to bilateral issues by agreement in the process of approximation. The Presidents of the European Union also agree. I have talked about this recently with the Secretary-General, High Representative Javier Solana, and I have also talked about this recently with Commissioner Olli Rehn, and our colleagues are ready to intervene and help negotiate with neighbouring Croatia or with the candidate for membership of the European Union to come to a solution to border issues through mutual agreement. Events in this regard are scheduled to begin in January next year. I think that it is probably not productive at this point to discuss these issues and, of course, we are ready to continue to listen to all the well-intentioned advice and information when it comes to Slovenian-Croatian relations. Above all, we would like to see perhaps such a debate, which was initiated by the Member of Parliament here in the plenary, on the Foreign Policy Committee, which is particularly qualified for such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you, Minister. Mr Minister, I ask you to answer the question raised at the previous meeting by Master Borut Saiovic regarding the communication of Ministry staff with the media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This might be some kind of misunderstanding. Of course, our ministry did not prohibit Zoran Kovac, it is for him to communicate with the media in Slovenia. We responded to Mr Kovac's request, this happened on 25 October this year, and we replied to Mr Kovac that our employees, diplomat, someone working at the diplomatic office or consulate must comply with the standards and regulations and the rules and laws that are in force. We are our employee, Mr Kovac is our employee, we have asked that media representatives be sent to the public relations service to connect them with the relevant interlocutors, but of course this relates mainly to the scope of the MFZ. As is known, for credible, relevant official information on external matters, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Secretary of State and the representative of the Ministry of Public Contact are specifically authorised. We have not banned Mr Kovac from communicating with domestic Slovenian media, although he is in Brussels, and we do not have this purpose, but we recommend or appear to us that our diplomats are specifically empowered to communicate with foreign public, they are sent to work, they are paid to communicate with the media in Belgium or in the European Union, not to communicate with the domestic public for which others are authorised. In this regard, I reiterate that there is no infringement and no restriction. It is about public servants communicating in a kind of orderly manner, in accordance with their work and with the rules in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Saiovic, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Nice greetings to all representatives and representatives of the Council of Ministers! Of course, I am referring to Minister Dimitri Ruple to complement the oral question. We may not have understood each other well, but the Slovenian media and the Slovenian public have clearly understood the problem and I wonder where the supervision of public servants is taking us. For I personally see no reason why, for example, the high-level representatives could make an important contribution to informing the Slovenian public about this important issue, which was the bird flu and all the behaviour of Slovenia in relation to it. Of course, I accept with understanding that diplomatic practice is one thing, but diplomatic practice is by no means possible and must not put on the Constitution, because the Constitution also guarantees freedom of speech in its 29th Article. I would therefore like to ask: What specific legal provisions have been applied by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have prohibited Mr Kovac as an eminent expert from discussing and expressing their views on this important matter? And: Have you taken any concrete measures within the Ministry against those who have asked Mr. Kovac to do so? Last but not least, it is interesting that the Ombudsman apparently understood this correctly and confirmed Mr Kovac's opinion and position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr. Minister, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I am pleased that you are in the Chamber and that we can speak in such a way from the eyes to the eyes. Your word "prohibition" is inappropriate because the Ministry has not forbidden anything to Mr. Kovac. As you know, Mr Kovac has published at least ten statements, as I recall, in Slovenian media on matters relating to bird flu and so on. He published a long interview in Mladina, and we did not wish or forbid any of these statements to Mr Kovac. However, in principle, if we send a diplomat abroad - and Mr Kovac is at the moment when he works in the MZZ system, a diplomat - when we send him abroad, we assume that he will speak mainly to foreign media and foreign public, while the local public can speak to the services responsible in this country. Of course, no one takes the word from Mr Kovac and no one will take it from him, not today or ever in the future, so I think that the excitement is completely superfluous. However, you must also understand that when it comes to diplomatic matters, the system of foreign affairs must speak with one voice, and we must coordinate our statements, especially when it comes to statements by the local public and the domestic media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you, Minister. The reply of Justice Minister Lovr Šturm to Matjaž Han's question about the work of the special government interdepartmental group on material war damage issues will now be received. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Matjaž Han, Commissioner, asks. Does the Ministry that you run deal with the problem of the material injuries of World War II and what the results of its work so far are and when can we expect concrete legislative proposals related to the resolution of this issue and what will be its framework content? The problem of the material victims of World War II is not addressed by the Ministry of Justice, but is addressed by the Interdepartmental Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with the issues of war damage, which is chaired by the Minister of Justice. At its meeting in May this year, this Commission adopted a starting point for the possible legal regulation of the rights of material harmers of World War II. In particular, the extent of material war damage suffered by individuals during World War II should be assessed on the basis of available data. Taking into account the capacity of the State, it is necessary to determine the amount that may be earmarked for the partial recovery of the material damage suffered at that time. Part of the purpose of the refund is to provide for State property, the method, the time course and the payer of the refund must be determined. When paying the refund, the assessment of eligibility shall take into account the present territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Taking into account the amount of damage converted to the present value and the amount of resources the State is able to allocate for their reimbursement, the relationship between the damage estimated on the basis of the post-war inventory and the right to reimbursement shall be determined. The beneficiaries shall be reimbursed on the basis of such a percentage. Beneficiaries not in possession of an assessment of war damage shall first be determined on the basis of the criteria in force at that time and then multiplied by the coefficient obtained above. The law shall also specify, where appropriate, a one-year period within which beneficiaries may apply to the competent authority for the recovery of war damage. After the end of the administrative procedures, the amount foreseen by the State for this purpose would be proportionately distributed to the beneficiaries. In addition, the Interdepartmental Commission commissioned a narrower working group, in which representatives of the Institute for Recent History and the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia also participated, to prepare, on the basis of available data, an assessment of the damage suffered during World War II by material injuries from World War II, and to assess the relationship on which the war damage could be converted to present value. A narrower working group completed its work in mid-year. Archival data show that in World War II, in the territory of the present Slovenia, 23 billion of the then dinars were harmed by the Axis forces, and partly by the Yugoslav and Allied armies. After World War II, all the damage was accurately described. Decisions on the assessment of war damage have been issued to those injured by any party in relation to war events. On the basis of the criteria taken into account for the calculation of the present value of nationalised assets in denationalisation, therefore, these criteria have been taken into account, the assessment of the present value of assets lost during the war would be 540 billion tolars. The Closer Working Group also made some additional proposals. All the material was addressed at the December meeting by the Interdepartmental Commission to address war damage issues. It estimated that approximately 30% of the amount mentioned could occur and that it would forward the material to other government bodies.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Han, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your answer. I hope that the problem of these people who were involved in World War II or who were injured and injured by private property will be resolved in some way quickly. I am counting on this to be resolved as you have just mentioned, by the law that these people will be granted some status and ultimately their objective, material satisfaction. I believe, and I hope, that all this business about these war casualties will not have any ideological omens and that it will be resolved in a dignified manner. However, I would ask the Minister to complete the reply in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Han. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you, too, for this additional question. Of course, we will also give an answer in writing. I can see that this is not an ideological criterion in dealing with this issue. It is true, however, that this is a question that has not been addressed by all governments so far and has, in fact, been unresolved for 15 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you, Minister. The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jure Zupan, will answer Mrs Brede Pecan's question about the procedure for establishing a higher education agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u59	Dear Mr. President, honourable Member! Thank you so much for asking. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has always stressed in the past and also now stresses that Slovenia needs an independent body for the evaluation of higher education institutions and also higher education programmes. My answer to this question will also concern the answer to the question of Mr Gabra, who asked essentially the same question, so that it essentially relates to the answer to both questions. The fact is that this work must meet the conditions laid down by the European Network to ensure the quality of the European Higher Education Area, and it must be said that there are several of these forms in Europe, a number of different forms that countries have. There are nine agencies among 25, five worlds, five committees or committees, two centres, four in the establishment and in Slovenia, of course, we were looking for the most suitable form. The fact is that the form of the agency provided for by the law is extremely wasteful, as it requires a minimum of 10 people and, of course, to save approximately 40 million dollars, i.e. around 2 apartments per year, we have decided to reshape the National Commission for the Quality of Higher Education in the previous period. Here we have been looking for solutions, and I stress, together with the Rector's Conference with the Rectors of all three universities, we have agreed in agreement that the Rector's Conference should recommend to the National High Education Quality Commission that it should be transformed into an appropriate body that can be integrated into an enco. At a meeting held yesterday in Celje, at the 19th regular meeting of this National Commission for the Quality of Higher Education, this recommendation was adopted unanimously by the Rector's Conference and formed a special body composed of 7 members, 4 members of the National Commission for the Quality of Higher Education and the President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, the President of the Council for Science and Technology and the President of the Higher Education Council. This provisional body will draw up an act and how this commission for the quality of higher education will be transformed into this world. This was also supported by all the student representatives who were there, i.e. representatives of all three universities, and I think we will do so accordingly. Here I would like to stress that the student organisation of Slovenia is still the same afternoon, we have concluded this meeting at one, and these representatives strongly condemned this intention in the same afternoon, and I reiterate that the representatives of all three universities were present at this meeting and have also agreed on a unanimous commission and there is also one representative of the students in this provisional committee. That's why I'm wondering whose representative the SOS is. The fact is that this agency or body, in the form of a world, will be established, established, and, of course, will also take an independent position, as it is called. However, the fact is that in Europe we are required to engage in a long or a minimum of two to three years of activity in this area and by reshaping the National Commission for the Quality of Higher Education, while maintaining its long-term experience in this area and maintaining its qualifications, its expertise and its competence in this area, as most members of this Commission will be included in all the commissions that will operate within this newly established body. That's what this high school quality committee also found out, and I was happy to listen and give my consent to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Pecanova, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u61	That's right! It is interesting that in a good month the Minister completely changed his attitude or attitude towards what he originally intended, since the Ministry first set up a working group for the establishment of a public agency in which all partners in the higher education process should participate. Unfortunately, there has also been a permanent practice of the current authorities, which are not prepared to cooperate with civil society in the drafting of the rules. The Ministry did not ask universities, relevant student and employers' associations to propose their representatives, but only appointed them. Thus, without knowledge, the Student Organisation of Slovenia, as a student representative, appointed the Vice-President of New Slovenia. It's probably not like he's a minister from the same party. Universities do not know who their representative is in this working group. However, their representative has been appointed to the working group in the protests of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, but the working group has not met since. Today we know why. At their express request, however, the Ministry did not wish to disclose to the students who the remaining members of the working group were. The Ministry then prepared a proposal for conclusions on the establishment of a public agency, which was sent to the SOS only by e-mail on Friday afternoon. For comments they only gave them till Monday afternoon, it's over the weekend. And such a short deadline must be absurd. At the time I asked the question, the ministry suddenly decided not to set up a public agency at all, but to set up and make an evaluation board from the National High Education Quality Commission, which is contrary to the signing of the Bergen agreement signed by the Minister, together with 44 colleagues. As it turns out, Minister, you've decided that the agency will not be at all. I'm curious: what basis do you have for such a decision? But the law obliges you to do so, and so does the Bergen agreement? And one more thing. The fact is, we should make sure that this agency works not only in the field of evaluation, but also in the field of evaluation. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much for this additional question, but this is a completely wrong interpretation. In Bergen, we have signed what we are doing and what Europe and our higher education institutions need. This is the establishment of an independent body. Whether you're calling it an agency, or a world, or a commission, it totally doesn't matter. It is important that it is independent, and it is particularly independent of higher education and independent of the Ministry. The Ministry can only finance, but it can't name and so forth. This is important. In this sense, because we wanted to save the country some money at the same time and not establish some new agencies, but this existing commission, which is already doing its job, to reshape it, seemed to us most meaningful. We looked for more solutions, we talked to lawyers, we worked together, so we changed our positions. When we came to certain questions, we were talking to the Rector's Conference that set up this committee and because the rector's commission that set up this is autonomous, we were just talking, and then the rector's commission proposed it as its solution and it will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u65	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that the State Assembly discuss the Minister's response to my question, because there is no way that I can agree that a group of people - not to say "a group of citizens" - decide that the law is not respected, but that it is done as it seems right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. On the proposal of Ambassador Pecanova to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to her question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. No, Mr. Secretary, you don't have a word. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Member of the Minister of Health, Dr Bručan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The affair with the operating tables, which began with the insolvent overpaid purchase at the Clinical Centre, has been repeated by the recent decision of the call committee of the Ministry of Health to buy the operating tables of the same manufacturer, at a significant overpriced price, although the Ministry of Health has made available documentation showing that the Slovenian supplier of the operating tables of the manufacturer Mace of this table in Slovenia offers at higher prices. At the same time, at the time of your transfer of business, Mr Minister, former Minister Dusan Keber warned whether to take into account the results of the so-called Končina Commission or to carry out an appropriate analysis of the prices of various bidders on the international market. In the last year, several articles have also been published to prove that the Mace operating table provider is performing in Slovenia at the disposal price and that the prices of this manufacturer abroad are significantly lower. At the same time, it has been shown that there are providers of operating tables who have all received their market position in the most developed countries. So far it's not true that there's only one good operating table. Nevertheless, Mr Minister, you have supported the game to eliminate cheaper bidders and to leave one producer in the game alone. In front of all the Slovenian public, which has been well-informed with the help of the media, you have completed a scenario that is not understandable from the point of view of a good master who manages money entrusted to him by citizens and from which careful management is expected. Today, the quality of Maciej's operating tables is known to be comparable to the quality of the tables offered to the Ministry of Health at a lower price, but the offer has been eliminated and the prices of both producers in the German home country are completely comparable. Although it was easy to obtain data on ratings and quality, you obviously did not have any interest in this, you concluded a contract with a provider who offered tables at a 50% higher price than the price of the cheapest provider in Slovenia. With this, you have estimated taxpayers to be harmed for a good 200 million dollars. You stated that you bought the best tables, and it turned out that members of your board of other tables didn't even know. You declare that you have chosen between two bidders and bought cheaper tables, which I can mark as a diversion or as a mockery, because both bidders offer the same tables and the price difference between them was negligible. With regard to the above, Mr Minister, why have you decided, despite the warnings and information you have, to be a provider offering us a table of 50% higher prices than the prices of the same tables abroad, and are 50% more expensive than our cheapest bidder? At the same time, I wonder: How can you reject the obvious that despite warnings, you are scattering tax money?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much to the Member for this question. Thank you very much for his findings, but mostly not accurate. The procurement procedure was carried out on the basis of a decision of the Minister of State of 15.4.2005. Public procurement was carried out through an open procedure. The preliminary invitation to tender was published in the Official Journal of 3.6.2005, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. The invitation to tender was finally published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 24.6.2005. The main features of the procurement of that item are: the procurement exceeds the low value threshold and the threshold of the European limit values, which is why it has also been published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. In addition to the publication of the invitation to tender, the tender documentation was also available on the Ministry of Health’s website, allowing access to the tender documentation to the widest possible circle. The public procurement was awarded in accordance with the arrangements, each public health institution representing its own set. In accordance with the tendering documentation, the tenderers had to submit tenders for each set individually. In doing so, they could have given up for one or more or all of the kits. And the criterion for selecting the most favourable bidder was the lowest price, with the possibility being given that if the tenderer offers all the kits, it will present the final price for all sets. The expert committee started work on 5.5.2005. It consists of two parts: members responsible for technical and technical content and members for professional content as well as economic-legal content. The technical specifications have been defined in such a way as to allow for the participation of several suppliers offering products from different producers. The work of the Commission was ongoing, with regular weekly meetings at which the issues related to the general part of the tender documentation were coordinated and the tender documentation provided a uniform qualitative approach. Until the expiry of the time limit for the submission of tenders relating to the tender documentation of the 57 issues received, of which, with regard to the general part of the tender documentation, 27 were formally available and 30 were in relation to the technical specifications. Now I'm repeating what I've already said in the beginning. Until the time limit for the submission of tenders, the contracting authority has not received an application for a review of the invitation to tender. The opening of tenders was carried out on 2 August 2005. Four Aikomet, Molliere, Soca Equipment and Sanolabor offers were submitted in the process. On the basis of a review of the offer documentation, the contracting authority found that the offer by Molliere was incorrect in the general part of the legal and technical part for reasons of the technically inadequately offered documentation. You could have ruled out Molliers by the first time. On the basis of a review of the offer documentation, the contracting authority found that the Soča Equipment offer was incorrect in the general part of the legal and technical part for reasons of technically inadequate equipment. For the above reasons, the contracting authority has removed Molliere and Soča Equipment from the tendering procedure as incorrect. In the review process, it was further established that they had submitted the correct tenders to Sanolabor and Aikomet with known amounts. After comparing the tenders received on the basis of the only price criterion as defined in the publication of the invitation to tender and the tender documents, it was found that Sanolabor submitted the most favourable offer. Therefore, if I repeat briefly: the decision on choice is taken on the basis of the procurement procedure carried out, which is governed by the Public Procurement Act and is in accordance with the procurement rule. According to the information received directly from the manufacturer Mace, the price from the offer is constructed according to the price of the manufacturer or even slightly lower. So your findings that our price is 50% higher than the price on the European market are incorrect. In the procurement procedure, the contracting authority received four tenders, of which only two were correct. Only the right offers can be compared and the most convenient of them can be selected. In view of the price at which it is stated that the minimum price of all four offers and 50% lower than the price of the selected offer, it is necessary to add a comment that this price cannot be labelled as the ‘lowest price’ because it is the price of the offer found to be incorrect. We cannot compare the price of that offer that is correct with the price of that offer that is incorrect. Once again, the award of the contract is not completed here because the audit procedure initiated by one of the tenderers is ongoing. The reasons for the choice decision already made in the selection notice will therefore be clarified and argued in the audit procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Germich, if you'd like an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, I am not satisfied with it, because I expected that, because of the evidence presented in the public in recent weeks, you would be able to express your view that you would reconsider the whole event concerning the invitation to tender. You're here today to prove that you have no intention of doing this. Of course, in your thoughts, Mr Minister, allow me to say that it is unusual that the cheapest bidders have been excluded in a very fast process. The price difference is for a good 200 million. How could you be satisfied with the explanation that the most expensive bidders have made the right offers and the cheapest one was wrong? It now appears that some corrections have been made in the tender of the selected supplier by means of corrective ink and could be entered at any time. After the exclusion of the cheaper bidders, there were only two who offered the same tables. It is interesting, however, that one of them is also the only authorised importer of these tables, so that he will import them for another supplier and nevertheless offer a small price higher than the other. Perhaps this does not indicate an agreement between them, according to which the importer predicted that because of the Clinical Center affair, it is probably better for him if he hides for another intermediary and shares the retail profits with him. That fact didn't seem suspicious to you, Mr. Secretary. Therefore, Minister, I ask you once again: Why did you not carry out your own analysis of the adequacy of prices and quality of the products offered by the so-called "side by side" method if you did not trust the commissions, which have done much already in the previous mandate, and the information provided by the media?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u73	In fact, the questions are the same as they were in the first part. There are no new questions, I have answered everything practically. We have chosen after this tender by the tenderer, which was the cheapest of those who have submitted tenders and which have met all technical and formal requirements. That's why there's nothing new here right now that I've said everything in the first place. It is true, however, that this price, once again, is, according to our data and data obtained directly by the factory, minimally lower than the price valid on the European market for these tables. As far as the tender documentation is concerned, I reiterate that all those who applied for this call - the tenderers - none of these tenderers had any comments on the tender documentation itself and, on the basis of the tender documentation, the Commission subsequently decided and proposed such a decision to me. I have decided on the basis of a decision of the Commission, which has decided on a minimum price provider from those who have met all the technical and formal requirements in the tender itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Germich, do you have a business proposition? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my view, in order to clarify the events that have been linked both to the operating tables at the Clinical Centre and to the problems related to the operating tables under this call, it is certainly necessary to clarify to this extent that there will be no irresponsible public response to the fact that there is a feeling that the taxpayer’s money can be poured into private pockets. There is an assessment in the world that medicine and pharmaceuticals are areas in which control of this money is questionable and that many payments are made for the purposes of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u76	Mr. Germich, there is no debate. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u77	I would only try to justify the proposal that I will propose at the end and is of a business nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u78	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u79	The answers you have given do not, of course, respond to all the dilemmas that we can monitor today and in the past weeks on this issue. That is why we want the answers to be clear and clear and clear, and to highlight this subject in all respects, because, in my opinion, it is a serious matter and again, I would like to point out that in health care it is 100 billion purchases per year, and I think that even on behalf of all those who face purchases in this area, it would be right to fully explain these things, answer all the dilemmas and thus prevent them from being able to monitor in the media that they are being published about the intrusion into e-mail, attempts at blackmail and disqualification of Members. To avoid all of this, I propose that, with regard to the Minister's response to my question, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, we decide to hold a debate at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Germich. On the proposal by Mr Germić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Dušan Kumer will raise the question of a letter to the Minister of Finance, Dr Bajuku, and to the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear Ministers and Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! It is true that some measures to rationalise the consumption of public tax money are or will be visible in the short term. For example: wage cuts in the public sector with directors of public institutions, officials, including Members and so on. The question is whether this is the case in all areas. Or maybe these same people in one area are "sparing" and bragging about it, and at the other, they're spending and offering themselves this flaw. There is no doubt that many trips by ministers and Prime Minister and the countries of these other state officials abroad are important. It would also be inappropriate for our ministers, the president of the country and others to be transported around in some kind of 'avionics' or for us to sleep in a hotel with two stars and so on when they go abroad. It is also true that you should be the same in your attitude toward public money as to how you should behave during the dry seasons. And as reform strategies say, they are today, and they are coming really dry years. Some of the number of these costs is quite dizzy, especially in the case of rental flights, daily subsistence and exclusive hotels. Sometimes, when you read these numbers, you get a familiar association: smaller and poorer than you are, more expensive and more luxuriously rent a plane and sleep at the best hotel, as do African chiefs. Therefore, more and more recently, it has been heard and also read that the irrational use of tax money for so-called state tourism is escaping from normal and even acceptable frameworks. Some numbers confirm that. I will give you two: sleeping in hotels for 900 and more euros per night, renting planes for a three-day trip of 20.7 million tolars and so on and so on. That is why I ask Minister Bajuk and Minister Virant: How much money was spent in the period from 1 January to 1 December 2005 by individual ministries and was spent entirely on chartering planes abroad, how much was spent on regular lines, diaries and hotel services? And secondly, what was the inflow during this same period since the release of the government plane falcon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr Minister Dr. Bayuk and Minister Dr. Virant together for five minutes. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much for that question. I'm sure it's worth a longer answer than I'll be able to get it together in these minutes. First of all, I would like to tell you that as far as rental of aircraft is concerned, the data of the Directorate of Accounting of the Ministry of Finance since yesterday at 1:20 p.m. when we received your question, and until today they have reviewed everything completely, as you requested, as for every budgetary user. I have only the data for this year, and by Monday we will also prepare to be able to compare how it was in the past, because you are certainly most interested in this. As far as the cost of chartering aircraft for foreign transport is concerned, current accounting shows that we have spent 163 million 120 thousand, of which 148 thousand is the real majority of these funds are the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, all of which are practically related to the OSCE Presidency's obligations, the Ministry of Defence for 7 million 800 thousand, and the cabinet of the Prime Minister for 8 million 3 thousand, that is to say, a total of 163. As far as the question of rent inflows is concerned. Inflows into the budget due to the title of the rental of the falcon government aircraft from 1.1.2005 to 12.12.2005 are a million 375 thousand euros or 262 million 461 thousand dollars. As far as the cost of other transport costs abroad is concerned, however, there are a billion 269 000. The expenditure on payments for official travel abroad is a billion 50, and the cost of hotel services abroad is 381 000 555. I have here on the seven pages the information you requested for 2005. Like I said, by Monday you'll have a comparison. I can give it to you right away. I would like to ask my colleague, Dr Virant, to give you a little explanation of what measures the government has taken, as far as this is concerned, which measures it has actually retained. I can only tell you that on my travels, in principle it is in Brussels at the meetings of finance ministers, I always ride with Adri's plane and it is not, I don't know what the difference is, and I can assure you this, because Adria doesn't offer any difference for the business class, but I'm holding on to this in person. The hotel where I spend the night is traditionally one and the same, where all the employees go, and this is Hotel Renaissance, which is very close to this office, where we actually go. In any case, we'll make a comparison. I think it's a very convenient question, but it requires some detailed work on the details that you've asked for and you'll get it. I'll give you what I have right now. Dr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. There's not much to add. I must say that, as far as official travel abroad is concerned, we are applying and following a regulation that has been adopted in the mandate of the previous Government and is, to be acknowledged, quite restrictive. It also seems important to me that, unlike previous practice, we have concluded a cover contract with Adria Airways, a cover contract for flights on the route Ljubljana - Brussels - Ljubljana. In this way, because of the increased volume, we have realised savings, estimated at about 50 million at a semi-annual level or 100 million at an annual level. As regards the rental of commercial aircraft, it is known that the practice and instructions of the Prime Minister are such that a commercial aircraft for a ministerial delegation is leased when for objective reasons it is not possible to fly on a regular basis, or because in emergency or emergency situations the organisation of regular travel is not feasible in the required timeframes or goes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u85	Mr. Secretary, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u86	for a joint journey where, in fact, the rental of an aircraft costs less than [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Kumer want an extra one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I will also ask you a question so that Minister Virant has the opportunity to complete the answer. I will be very happy if I get this written information, because with some of my haircuts, which are on shorter periods, not for 11 months, let's say April a month at only one ministry of 48 million airline rentals, and the three-day lease at Adria for a three-day flight of 20.7 million and so on, so that I will not continue to mention. So I don't think this number is going to come out like that, and I'm going to be very happy with this written answer. At the same time, if it is possible in this written reply, if you are still presenting to me, under a government regulation, that a minister or a state official who goes abroad and stays in a luxury hotel that costs more than a diary and this account, which is for a mere hotel with three, four stars, has any of the ministers or government officials returned that difference to that number? To be very specific. In spring in Brussels, where the foreign minister was in the hotel for 970 euros, the Prime Minister slept across the street in a hotel for 100 euros. I wonder if the difference has come back or why he didn't go to the hotel where the Prime Minister was. I hope this information gets a little wider.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Would either of the two ministers like to respond? Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u90	This case, which you have just explained last, will certainly not happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Miro Petek will ask the Minister of Economy a question, which is absent. If you want, you can ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Nevertheless, I will ask this question. For some time now it has been known that the Prevention Group will be from Slovenj Gradc, whose majority owner is Sarajevon Nijaz Hasta [[?]] started forgiving workers in Slovenia. Construction has failed, they have problems in the wood industry, and now they are predicting moving the textile industry to a country with cheaper labour, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Ministry of Economics, in particular during the time of Minister Teje Petrin, also led the policy of granting grants to companies that set up companies and opened factories abroad and thus moved production from Slovenia to abroad. This also applies to the Prevention Group, which has received significant State resources in the past. The relocation of production to countries with a lower labour price is expected and inevitable for the textile industry, but it is strange that the country has financed and stimulated such movement of production and thus the closure of jobs with money from the state budget. The result of this move will also be the closure of some 1000 jobs of Preventa in Radljah ob Drava, Mežica, Lenart, Slovenj Gradc. With such a policy of the former government, Slovenia has been deprived twice. First of all, grants from the state budget were intended to open jobs in a foreign country, which will take over the work of Slovenian textiles because of the lower cost of the labour force. At the same time, this will put hundreds of workers and workers at the employment or disability office at the country's burden. In the meantime, the owners have already collected fantastic profits. I therefore ask the Minister of Economy in the absence: Is it the normal economic policy of the State to finance the opening of production in foreign countries, which are direct competition for domestic industry, in the course of global competition with taxpayers' money and grants, and to this account is a failure of part of the industry in Slovenia? Further: How much have they received in recent decades from the company in the Prevention Group? Does the Minister of Economy know how many similar cases have been reported in the past? I expect an oral response at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Friday. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. There's no Dr. Paul Gantar. Mr Matjaž Han will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Mr Podobnik a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Minister of Respect! In July and August this year, Slovenia was hit by natural disasters, with a total estimated damage of more than 18 billion tolars. In its previous programme for the execution of the necessary works, the Government committed support to the forty municipalities totalling 488.5 million Slovenian tolars in dealing with the consequences of these disasters. To illustrate, this represents slightly less than 2.7% of the value of the total estimated damage. A few months ago, in the National Assembly, we adopted a bill to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, which, at least as you argued at the time, will significantly contribute to the prepayment of the consequences of natural disasters affecting farmers. In addition, State aid could also be hoped for by affected municipalities that have suffered damage to their infrastructure facilities and apartments. That is why I ask you: How much State aid can farmers and affected municipalities, especially in Kozianska and Bela Krajina, which were targeted by the storms in July this year, and the municipalities in Posavje and Savinja and Zasavje, this is the municipalities of Laško, Radeče, Sevnica, Krško, Žalec, who suffered damage in August, mainly affected by floods and reptiles. I ask you, Minister, to present to me more precisely the expected amounts and deadlines of the Government's follow-up programme to address the consequences of these natural disasters for this area. I thank you for your answer, but at the same time I commend you, since immediately after the storm, you came with your team to all these affected congregations, and indeed, thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Ambassador! Mr Erjavec, a fellow Defence Minister, was on the ground at the time and we visited some of the most affected areas together. First of all, I would like to tell you that this year's storm was very large and has really caused the damage that you have already assessed in your question. I would like to say that, after we have received all the relevant information and the procedure laid down by the law by our defence colleagues, we, at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, will then be given a mandate by the government to prepare the procedures for the future. I'm not going to be able to fully answer your question and I'm going to tell you why. In order to prepare and submit a partial rehabilitation programme to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible in the first months of the following year, we have called on all affected municipalities to deliver, by 10 January at the latest next year, the rehabilitation laboratories for the work that will be urgently needed in the first half of next year. As you said, we have provided from the budget reserves a good 480 million tolls for the payment of the works already done and for the execution of the necessary works to ensure the conditions of life and work in the affected municipalities. The fact is that up to now we have received only 17 applications for the payment of these contractually agreed amounts, which 22 municipalities have not yet submitted. Also, call on this place, the congregations, to send the required documentation as soon as possible so that they will receive the money that has already been allocated to them. When we receive these elaborates from the municipalities for damaged buildings for which congregations are in charge, we will immediately prepare this partial program of rehabilitation. Most of the problems here are caused by reptiles. This applies especially to your congregation, Laško and the neighboring congregation, some congregations in Posavje, Sevnica, Krško etc. I must say that further research is needed to prepare laboratories to remedy this damage, especially in the area of soil climbing, which have not yet been fully completed. However, the damage assessment, as it is said, shows that this is a very large recovery project that will require large financial resources over several fiscal years. So every year, our projections will require more than a billion tolls of extra money so that we can properly repay this damage. You also mention the area of agriculture in your question. Here I have to say, we have consulted our agricultural colleagues that, within the framework of a group at the Ministry of Agriculture, they have prepared a programme to remedy this direct damage in agriculture and only this one foresees a so-called state aid reimbursement of 35% of the direct damage in agriculture. And depending on the dynamics of the mandatory budget reserve, farmers can hope for this damage in the coming year, and if this is very quickly prepared, then it will not be necessary to implement the instrument called prepayment. It's about agriculture. And once again, about the congregations. The greatest damage was undoubtedly, in addition to the watercourses, to the municipal and other roads, which were further affected by the beaches and by the beaches, the earth’s reptiles cause the most problems. Mr Member, I couldn't answer your questions in time and in dynamics. After January 15th, I will know more, because by then all the affected Slovenian municipalities will be sending us an elaborat for those facilities that they assume are crucial for us to go into realisation in the first half of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister, Mr. Sponik. You want to complete the answer. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your answer, Your Honor. I am in the midst of such disasters, accidents, joy at all the help of the state, especially when nature is affected by less developed areas such as Prekmurje, Kozyanska, Zasavje and if you want, also Posavije, from where I come in the end. I hope that you will also take social criteria into account in all these matters, because this seems extremely important to me, given that we know that all these areas are already affected in one way or another. On this occasion, I will risk criticising the government, but the case of two and a half billion tolars of spent budget money for the OSCE meeting is an example of how the state cannot manage taxpayers' money, since, in my opinion, apart from a bunch of angry participants in transport, the meeting has produced no results. And I'm counting, and I'm sure that this money could be more easily and better earmarked to deal with such catastrophic disasters as it was in the previous year and this year, and with these billions, some train could be better and easier to manage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u100	I would like to answer the Member's additional question first because you mentioned Pomurje and I am grateful to you. We have proven and demonstrated that it is possible to implement some of the provisions of the law relatively quickly and also to carry out intervention rehabilitations within the framework of an instrument that is called a public benefit and we have succeeded in three months in this first ore, including colleague Mario Pozsonec now watching, to restore part of the damaged high-water embankments near Mura. This project will continue next year. When you mentioned comparatively, Mr Member, the amount earmarked for organising an important international meeting in Ljubljana must be said, for the first time that part of this money was also part of the renovation of premises at the Economic Exhibition and Slovenia and Ljubljana has finally received an important location, which we will be able to make good use of for the EU Presidency. However, part of the costs for this OSCE meeting was also borne by the OSCE organisation itself, and some were also borne by the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Maria Possonec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mrs Lukačič a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u102	Good evening! Nice greetings to all present! I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Maria Lukačič the following question: Since the sugar factory Ormož is just before closing, I wonder: How and how will replacement production in the factory not be affected by the region there? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you for the question, honourable Member, and thank you for your concern for 2,300 Slovenian farmers who are fatally dependent on the further production of the sugar factory in Ormož. The fact is, on 24 November, the reform of the sugar sector was adopted in the world of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries in Brussels. I did not support the reform for two reasons. Firstly, due to the high price reduction of sugar and sugar beet. Secondly, due to the inadequate amount of compensatory payments to be paid by sugar beet growers. The reform we have adopted is not what we wanted. Nevertheless, the reform contains certain solutions that allow the production of sugar beet in Slovenia to be maintained. Let me highlight some of the main points of the reform adopted, which is particularly important for sugar beet growers in Slovenia. A longer transitional period has been imposed for the full implementation of the reform. Instead of the proposed two years, there is now a transitional period of four years. The reduction in sugar prices will take place over a four-year period. The final drop of 36% will be achieved in 2009. Sugar beet growers will be entitled to a refund of 64.2% for the loss of income, which will be paid in the form of a new refund or a direct payment per hectare of beet. The Ormož sugar factory has acquired full-time refinery status, giving it the possibility of additional means during a transitional period of four years to adapt to the new market arrangements. Our request was made that at least 10% of the restructuring funds be allocated to farmers or sugar beet growers and to pay for the unamorted part of the machinery purchased by producers or farmers for the processing of sugar beet. The reform also allows for the continuation of production with reduced production capacity. In particular, if the processing of sugar beet is completely discontinued, another production, such as bioethanol, may continue in the existing facility. In this case, the factory will receive 75% of the restructuring funds. In the event of partial cessation of the processing of sugar beet, this aid for the abandoned part of production amounts to 35% of the restructuring aid. The reform provides additional means of leaving production in particularly vulnerable areas, the so-called regional diversification, which can reach €219 per tonne of sugar when complete abandonment of sugar beet production. I am convinced that in the framework of the reform adopted, there is every possibility that the factory will not be fully closed, since the possible partial or total failure to produce song sugar can be replaced by other alternative products, particularly bioethanol. Finally, I should like to point out that we cannot have a significant impact on the business decision of the factory owners. But we can help or help to keep production going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Transport of Mags a question. Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! We have all heard that with the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, transport regimes and transport routes through our country have also changed significantly. The worst is doubtless in Pomurje, where the situation is already on the brink of a natural disaster, if I mention only broken walls, unbearable living conditions, children's safety and health, as well as all the rest of the population. The volume of cargo vehicles is increasing from month to month, and last month it has reached almost 85,000 crossings across the border of the Long Village, of course local transport needs to be added. It is true that the Transport Ministry has taken some short-term measures to prevent these negative consequences, but unfortunately they are being implemented late and do not produce the expected results. However, it should be known that one cargo vehicle on average does damage as much as 40,000 passenger vehicles. There are also negative environmental impacts on road damage, particularly excessive emissions of harmful gases, noise and tremors. In recent times, traffic has more than doubled the number of accidents on these roads, especially fatal ones, from one in 2001 to five in this year. Let's hope that's the final number. Therefore, Mr Minister, I repeat that things are insufferable to the extent that countries living along the road, living standards and quality of life have decreased beyond all reasonable limits, and their health is also at risk. In view of the fact that the motorways through Pomurje by 2008 should not have been, I ask: how do you plan to limit the further increase in freight traffic through Pomurje, which will reach 100,000 vehicles by the end of the year, that is almost three per minute, and given that this is the average number, we can also expect convoys when cars are behind each other? What is the fate of the motorway and transport programme for this area, which has already been adopted by the Government of Rop, and how many permits have been issued this year for the passage of trucks across the Republic of Slovenia? Are you preparing any restrictions in this area? I also have a particular interest: What will you do to get it started as soon as possible, the adopted and promised replacement of windows on the roadside houses already in September? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I know that there are problems with the invitation to tender, but this cannot possibly be an excuse and an answer for the countries that live there. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I thank the President for his leadership so far, and I welcome everything from this city as well. I give my word to the Minister of Transport, mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Nicely greeted. Dear Member, Dr Mitja Slavinec, thank you for the question. At the Ministry of Transport, we are aware of the problem of increasing traffic flows in Slovenia, especially in road, freight in the area of north-eastern Slovenia. In accordance with the values and regulations of the European Union, on the free movement of goods, people and capital, we cannot administratively restrict road freight. In 2005, the Republic of Slovenia issued 106.705 permits for the purposes of foreign motorists outside the European Union. Car carriers from the Member States of the European Union shall have free transit through the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the following year, we expect an additional increase in freight traffic on Slovenian roads, as countries in Eastern Europe are constantly developing. We expect additional burdens on our roads and border crossings from 2007 when Romania and Bulgaria join the European Union. The burdens of roads, buildings, surrounding areas with noise pollution in such heavy-load traffic require transport policy measures. At the Ministry of Transport, we are still aware of the problems of increasing transit heavy freight traffic at the section of the main road G1-3 between Maribor and the Slovenian-Hungarian border. As a result, the Ministry of Transport, together with Dars, carried out a number of activities in both last year and this year, leading to the goal set: the city’s motorway leg to complete by the end of 2008 at the latest, which is ahead of schedule from the national programme. In the coming year, activities will be extremely extensive. In 2006 the construction of the following sections on the pomurski leg will begin: on the section of the Lenart-Beltinci motorway, the subsection of the highway Lower Senarska-Cogetinci 10 km long and at the section of the Beltinci-Pince motorway, the Beltinci-Lendava motorway 17.4 km long. Traffic is expected to be given a section of Beltinci - Pinke highway, which is Lendava - Pinke substation 9.2 km long. In 2006 the construction will continue on the following sections on the pomurski leg: on the section of the Maribor - Lenart highway 7.8 km long, on the section of the Lenart - Beltinci motorway and on the Lenart - Lower Senarska subsection 7.2 km long and also on the Cogetinci - Vukja you are 11.6 km long and on the Beltinci - Pinke section, Lendava - Pinke subsection 7.5 km long. It is clear from the above that we are investing extremely large financial resources for the construction of the Pomeranian motorway line with a view to its accelerated construction, which results in huge investment works and a concrete plan for the transfer of sections to the market. Thus, at the end of 2006, in the event that the construction bids will take place without complications, the city’s motorway will be in construction at its full length. It should be pointed out that in the 2006 annual programme for the development of motorways, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted and sent to the National Assembly for the construction of the Danube motorway line, is intended for a total of 33 billion tolars. Unfortunately, despite all the current traffic conditions on the G-13 main road, the construction of the ferry highway can by no means be accelerated in time by being dedicated to traffic before the deadlines set out. In the face of the major financial resources and efforts invested in the accelerated construction of the Mooring Highway, short-term measures are also being implemented on the G-13 main road between Maribor and Lendava, namely traffic mitigation measures, cross-lighting, road rehabilitation and anti-group protection. The value of the works carried out by the Slovenian Directorate for Roads amounted to 138 million tolars in 2004, 174 million tolars in 2005 and 700 million tolars in 2006. The total investment in the G-13 State Road will therefore amount to just over 2 billion tolars. The whole investment of the G-13 State Road regime will therefore in some way be completed during this period. Passive anti-group protection in settlements along the main road will be carried out in spite of the complications of broadcasting as soon as possible in the event of an emergency. In addition to the measures related to the construction of infrastructure, the Ministry is working to implement European and Slovenian transport policies. The motion for a resolution on transport policy, which is being considered in the National Assembly, highlights the problem of burdening Slovenian roads and the environment due to increased freight road transport and seeks alternative road transport. Thus, the Puconci - Hodoš - state border with Hungary was dedicated to the use of the railway line in May 2001. In the case of good practice in some EU countries, it is clear that a shift to rail for the problems encountered can be a good solution. It is clear from the above that large financial resources are being invested in the state road and rail network in Pomour, and thus I guarantee great efforts as Minister of Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac, would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive reply. I'm sorry you didn't answer that crucial question: "How do you intend to limit the further increase in freight traffic through Pomurje?" I ask the question once again and justify it by understanding, on the one hand, that you are limited in this prohibition, the restriction of traffic, but on the other hand, we must be aware that there is no way that all the weight of this transit or most of the weight of transit through Slovenia can be on people on that road. If you go from Maribor to Lendava and drive according to the rules, and unfortunately, the faster you can't, because trucks are so densely driving in both directions that you can't even get ahead of yourself, so drive at their speed. This takes as long as you take from Maribor to Koper or to the coast, and this is unsustainable. Of course, the safety and health of all people on the road are also mentioned earlier. And by no means should we pay some of our obligations to the wider community to reduce the quality of the Slovenian population alone. And I stress, this is already over the upper limit that this road can handle. It is imperative that restrictions be made in any way possible. This is what I am asking you and I am giving you the initiative to think about, because in the future this road will no longer be safe and healthy, this trend will continue. The number from the beginning of last year is 24 thousand 957, now 84 thousand 653. And like I said before, it's like we've been driving three trucks past here for the rest of my time. Very loud. That's really insufferable.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I have a possibility of further agreement. I have made it very clear that Slovenia cannot limit administrative trucking through Slovenia. Secondly, we will certainly have to take those steps, which are even possible, with the success of the police, that is, the work of the internal ministry. In some ways I appeal and ask for patience, we will try to complete this pomurski motorway leg as soon as possible, because this will provide the final solution in some way for the entire region of Slovenia. Larger or more measures, except that we will require the internal ministry to be stricter and to ensure that the police are more present in this area, so that the traffic is as fast as possible and as fast as possible. I think that any other measures that would go in the direction of a prison or a ban would provide additionally with even greater traffic points. The data you provided, Dr. Slavinec, is at the tip, but this is not an average, so-called measure data of the PLDP, which is much lower. This means that traffic is increasing from the point of view of freight transport by 30% in one year, but it is not expected to increase as dramatically in the coming year as it was this year. At this point in time, I can assure the Minister of Transport that we will do everything in our power to ensure that we are more pervasive at neurological points in order to ensure as much traffic safety as possible and as much traffic as possible. Regrettably, Prekmurje or Pomurje has waited a long year for a necessary connection, and therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with its proposal for a programme, has demonstrated its credibility through increased dynamics for the next two years, not least since 2004, this has been stifled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Sok to ask the Minister of Justice the following question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask the following oral question to the Minister of Justice. On the part of some politicians and opinion leaders, in recent times, I can say 14 years from the beginning of denationalisation, at a time when we are somehow denationalising or going to the end, to hear doubts, or even to say that the return of property was made to some beneficiaries for illegal return, or that it was specifically the return of the Roman Catholic Church to the two-fold return of property. As district minister, I ask you: How can it be that, under the law on denationalisation, property has been returned twice, or is it really only a matter of naked deception to the public? At one of the last meetings, Ambassador Potrč, who is unfortunately not here at this time, requested information on the property returned to the Roman Catholic Church. On the part of the Liberal Democratic Party, we have heard that the authorities with the returned property data are obliged to disclose this information. As a member of the National Assembly, Mr Justice Minister, I so request information on the property returned to Mr Janez Kocjančič. Although I could also mention and ask for someone else, I have decided to ask you to provide information for Mr Kocijancič, because it was at the time of his return, also the president of the party whose Member today requires you to disclose the information on the returned property of the Roman Catholic Church. For your answer, I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I invite you to the word of Dr. Sturm, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. Of course, it is not possible to return assets twice under the Denationalisation Act. There can't be any doubt here from a legal point of view. However, there are indeed allegations in the public about the twofold return of property to the church concerning the question of who was the owner of this property prior to the war, which was returned to the church by denationalisation. It is therefore a question of the legitimacy of return. For some time now, it has been widely believed in the public that before the war the church was not the owner of the forests that had been maintained after the war, but that they had already been owned by the state. This claim is indisputably not true, for the church became formally owned by these forests in 1939, and before that these forests were actually owned by a religious fund. The religious fund was in the administration of the state, but the funds of the religious fund were funds derived from the church, i.e. from church property. The state only managed these funds. Therefore, all indications that it was a two-fold acquisition of property are not true. Finally, they were definitely rejected at the scientific consultation of the Slovenian Academy of Arts three years ago, but it is true that they continue to appear persistently in public. The matter is so much more unusual because this information is also transmitted to the public by even some university professors, which raises doubts as to the credibility of their statements. Let me say that I have also drawn attention to this today to the consultation held by the President of the State, Dr Janez Drnovšek, which was devoted to the issue of relations between the State and the Church. A particular issue is how to ensure the protection of personal data in all data in the field of denationalisation. The Constitution provides for the protection of personal data as well as general protection provided by the Constitution in principle to both natural and legal persons. Therefore, questions were raised as to whether data could also be transmitted to civil rights persons, which is what the church is, but this question became unnecessary, since the Roman Catholic Church or the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference expressly allowed the publication of data relating to the denationalized property of the Catholic Church. That's why the thought fell through. On the question of property, which has been returned by denationalisation to one of the beneficiaries you have appointed, the Minister of Justice cannot answer you or cannot answer you, because these data are protected as personal data, which provides us, as I have already said, with the constitution in Article 38.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u118	Just a quick question, Mr. Secretary. Does this mean that if Mr Kocijancič allowed this information to be published in the manner permitted by the Roman Catholic Church, would it then mean that this information could then be disclosed publicly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u119	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you, too, for this additional question. Yes, indeed, because the Personal Data Protection Act explicitly stipulates that if the data subject is explicitly declared to be published as public, then this obstacle is eliminated. The answer to your question is yes. In this case, all constitutional and legal obstacles to the publication of such data would be eliminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. It's mag. Zaiovic, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Madam Minister and other representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am referring the following question to the Minister. Despite winter and winter time in the countryside and agriculture, preparations for the spring harvest are already under way. And despite the cold, it's pretty hot. What's this story all about? As with all the years so far, decisions are issued too late this year, decisions are delayed. Of course, we could say that if an agency is an ATM for servicing and paying off to farmers, then we can say that this ATM has also gone bad in the fall. What's this all about? At the end of this year, we are once again witnessing cases where farmers have been granted significantly less than the amount awarded to each measure. The latest concerns are the non-payment of milk premiums and the execution of an invitation to tender for the acquisition of grants for investments in agriculture, the economy. This is action two for 2005. For this measure, 1.8 billion tolars were available in the tender. The interest among farmers was considerable, as the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development received a total of 263 applications, requesting 3.6 billion tolars. Unfortunately, however, only 62 positive decisions and unallocated tolars were issued and disappointed. Of course, the reasons for the most frequent shortcomings are mostly bureaucratic and paper and on the ground and in the area where I come from, of course, the opinion is undisputedly profiled, as farmers also confirm, that the reasons for rejecting applications in the vast majority are purely bureaucratic. In fact, we are looking for reasons for not paying off the village and the farmers in the light of a white day. Of course, there is not much left of those high - ranking pre-election promises after breaking the standards. Those of us who have been a little bit more interested in how systems work across Europe must be told that we can easily and gladly attach to farmers, because the agency does not join this role as a farmer's partner, someone who would try to find ways out of Europe and from Brussels to take as much money as possible, but on the contrary. It is clearly of this country's interest that we do not get sufficient resources from Brussels or that even these funds remain in the Slovenian budget and can be spent even for other purposes in the face of a continuing crisis through funding. I'm also asking a few questions. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] How do you plan on ending this problem in the future? [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you for asking. I'm sure it's a problem you avenged, Mr. Ambassador, a pretzel. He surprised me, too. The fact is that the Agency has tendered a billion 800 million for investments in agricultural holdings and has approved or issued positive decisions in 62 cases and has issued negative decisions in 185 cases. We have carried out a thorough analysis of the reasons why these applications were rejected, so that in the recommitment of January or February, the available funds could be distributed in full. Let me mention at least the most common errors that have caused the programs to be rejected. In 61 cases, it was found that the sales market was not adequately proven, in 43 cases no relevant evidence was provided in terms of environmental and hygiene protection, non-compliance with EU standards, nitrate Directive requirements and so on. In 32 cases, non-compliance with the business plan and other data on the application were found to relate to the same data. In 30 cases, the financial coverage of the investment has not been adequately demonstrated. In 27 cases, inadequate evidence of the pre-budgeted value of investments was provided. You're asking what's going to happen to these funds. We'll definitely spend the money. We will execute the call in the second half of January until the first half of February. We will form an appropriate group of people, composed of people from the Ministry, the Agency, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers, who will be involved in these programmes before they submit the programmes and will draw attention to these most frequent shortcomings that we have now identified in this analysis. As regards the criteria, it should be said that these were set out in the single programming document which is the basis for this call. This programme was developed in 2004 and endorsed by the European Commission. At that time, it cannot be amended until the new invitation to tender. It is true, however, that a new rural development programme is being prepared for the next financial perspective, in which we will certainly respect the criteria that our farmers will achieve and meet. You ask where the reasons are for not meeting the conditions for the preparation of business plans. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Budget or the Republic of Slovenia does not pay for the production of business plans from the budget and therefore does not have an impact on what business plans the operators are preparing and how much they charge for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mag. Saivitz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary-General. I appreciate the effort you are making for this, and your action to finally move something in the coming year, as a real song, "it will finally get better after the new year". However, in order to be constructive in this debate, let me tell you some of the most common observations on the ground, what is most disturbing to those who are destined for these funds. The issue is that tenders are mostly published in inappropriate terms and people complain about too short notices. The general opinion is that the invitation to tender must not be republished until all those who have applied for the previous invitation to tender have yet to come to a conclusion. Then it is important, the minimum required levels after the completion of the investment per unit are too high and sufficient for them to have too few farms. These measures are intended only for larger farms with more than 25 GVZ, meaning practically about 40 animals in the barn. There are very few such farms in Slovenia. In the hilly marketing municipality, for example, where I come from, we have close to 250 farms and it is one of these that would meet these criteria and conditions, unfortunately only three. That is said, for us as Slovenians, the preservation and settlement of the countryside is also valuable. We must also support the small farmer and adjust the measures in this direction. All such procedures for farmers to submit this application cost the beneficiary about 300 to 400 thousand, which is not a small amount of money for Slovenian agriculture. And if the procedures taken to help farmers are carried out by experts and eventually prove to be inadequate, then we see that we have a serious problem in this system that we are trying to resolve together.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u128	I thank you for these warnings. I know more or less of them. I most agree that the criteria are not appropriate. This single software document actually meets the conditions of 900 farms in Slovenia; more or less they have already run for these funds. It is imperative to change these criteria so that smaller and medium-sized farms can also run. I agree with this, and in the rural development programme for the next period 2007-2013 we will certainly take this into account. As far as inappropriate terms are concerned. In a way, I agree with the fact that the time of the invitation to tender for investments in agricultural holdings and the time of the tender for subsidies coincide with the fact that this is essentially a double burden. However, there have already been two calls for proposals this year, the missing funds need to be spent, so we are forced to repeat this call in the next two months. However, we will take into account all the comments and references that we have come to and to which you point out in this invitation to tender within the next two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I assume you want to proceed with the procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It's a procedural proposal. There are certain things that are important for rural and agricultural areas that need to be talked more about finally coming into the right ears, giving them more care and more attention. I would therefore like to propose the following procedural proposal, which I am justifying with the following. The implementation of a grant measure for investments in agricultural holdings is the last in a series of measures in which farms have had extremely serious difficulties, as there is still a large amount of funding unallocated. As this is a necessary and acute problem, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and practice, we will also vote on this proposal tomorrow in the context of the vote. I invite Mr Kontic to ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, ministers, especially Mr Bručan, Minister of Health. My question today is addressed to him. We have been monitoring in the public for some time the problems of building a new building for the needs of the gynaecological and surgical department of the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, which is absolutely necessary. Existing premises are long-lasting and unfriendly to both patients and patients as well as to all employees at the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec. The envisaged investment is certainly necessary and it is necessary to do everything possible to make it happen as soon as possible. While employees work at this general hospital Slovenj Gradec to replace shortages in form or problems with inappropriate spaces with their actual work. However, it is a problem, as is known and caused by the failure to comply with the 60 million-dollar donation contract, which could jeopardise several billion worth of investment, for which the funds are provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder: How is the ministry involved in solving the problems that have arisen, and what are the prospects that this investment will actually start and end in due time and acceptable time?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u133	Minister Dr. Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you so much for asking. In this regard, in July 2004, when the question was raised, independent entrepreneur Vladimir Zaloveljšek from Prevalj addressed to the General Hospital in Slovenj Gradec an offer for investment, project and technical documentation for the implementation of the investment project. At that time, the Ministry of Health also took part in the coordination of this subject matter of the contract, including the procedure itself, but then there was no realisation or signature between the city of Love and between the hospital and the Ministry. On 22.3.2005, the donor and General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, as a donor, entered into a gift contract with the Ministry of Health, already in its current composition, did not want to participate in the signing of this contract. Under a contract worth 480 million tolars, the donor should, among other documents and services, hand over to the hospital by 30.4.2005 an idea project, by 31.12. a tendering project and by 28.2.2005 a project for the implementation of reconstructions and new constructions that would thus start in April - pardon, this is 2006 - which would thus start in April 2006. By handing out an idea project, the donor missed out. He didn't give up the rest. The value of the gifted idea project is about 60 million tolars. Since the beginning of October, the donor has addressed letters to the grantor and to the Ministry of Health in which, after the expiry of the contract deadlines and without justification, he attempts to reach an extension of the time limits set out in the gift contract and links its fulfilment with matters other than those of the contract. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, is preparing measures and in this regard has already proposed that, for reasons on the part of the donor, the contract should be terminated by 20.12.2006 and a procedure should be put in place for the recovery of the damage caused, and the Ministry will then, after the prescribed procedures, issue a public order to obtain the further necessary investment, project, technical documentation and later construction and equipment. It is estimated that the start of the construction will therefore be delayed for about six months. I must say that the Ministry has had this investment in the programme for a long time in the General Hospital of Slovenj Gradec and that, of course, all other procedures, which are directly within the Ministry's purview, are under way and a very precise plan is also being prepared for the Ministry's further operation, even in the absence of the implementation of this gift contract. There's not even time for me to talk to you about this whole plan right now. I would only like to state the following conclusion that the construction of this part of the hospital would already be envisaged for 5.1.2007, which means approximately half a year later, as originally envisaged, precisely because of this unrealised donation contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u136	I thank the Minister for his answer. There is certainly something else that needs to be done to make the investment start early and that there is no backlog like he predicted. In response, however, the Minister said that the existing ministry did not want to participate in signing this contract, and I am interested in the reasons: Why did the Ministry not want to participate in signing this contract?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u137	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u138	If that's the only question, I'd answer the introduction. We did not cooperate, we did not want to participate in the signing of this Treaty, because it was neither necessary nor foreseen, nor were we empowered to do so, and because we felt that the procedure was insufficiently precise and insufficiently reliable. And that's also the reason, I think, as you can see, we did the right thing. But as for the procedure that will run into the future, I said that I can't exactly say it here from day to day right now. But it is true that we will do everything possible to delay this time of delay because of the error that has occurred, but as soon as possible, we will bridge, and that the construction could possibly start sooner. However, all tendering procedures and all that needs to be done now for documentation - more than half a year - cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Puksic will ask two ministers, namely the Minister for Education and Sport and the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, Mr. Ministers, and especially Master Janez Bozič and my fellow countryman, Dr. Milan Beast. By the way, we did not agree with the Minister for Education on the question of the mission. In fact, the Slovenian municipalities have to make an invitation to tender for the transport of children to school each year in accordance with the issuance of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. These calls from year to year are less successful because from time when, of course, there are not so many public transports and when many companies have been closed down mainly in the Styrian part, the problem is also with carriers. However, because carriers felt this problem, they took advantage of it. Thus, in some of the tenders last year, respected by the Minister, they raised the price by no more than 20%, in other words for some municipal budgets from 3% to 8% of the eligible expenditure. This is, of course, unacceptable and unsustainable. The municipalities aren't capable and they can't mate with such high numbers. The problem is that the transported kilometer for carrying children to school is worth between 700 and 1,300 tolars per km. They know about the day, the hour, etc., when, of course, the children arrive and drive away from school. The transported mile, waiting for the carrier to get the buyer or not, is from 200 to 300 tolars. Such a policy is totally unacceptable, but of course it is implemented because no one has ever stepped on their fingers. That's why I'm asking both of you ministers, of course, "Is it possible to study a problem that, unfortunately, has not been dealt with in the last 10 years? And: Is it possible to do this by the next school year and the situation in this area to be settled as well, in some other Western countries where school transportation of children to school is carried by mothers who are, of course, qualified here, two hours in the morning and two hours in the afternoon [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u141	The microphone's gonna go off.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u142	Shortcut [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u143	Well, that's according to the new arrangement. Now I invite both ministers to respond, if I understand the agreement correctly, is the first Minister of Transport, Master Christmas, and if there's anything left of 5 minutes, Dr. Beast will complete it if necessary. Please, Minister Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you so much for the question. Thus, the Ministry of Transport has long identified and highlighted the issue of carrying out the transport of school-bound children, which is within the competence of the municipalities. The cost of school transport is too high because of the poor use of buses, given the number of kilometres transported, and represents a very high cost at the state level. In most cases, by incorporating school transport into public passenger transport, we could add a few more rides on the same lines for a small-scale surcharge, thus allowing the use of public transport to students and employees. This applies to areas where school transport is the only form of line transport. If school transport were included in the public line transport system, municipalities would purchase monthly tickets for school-bound children at the applicable price. There could be a different arrangement. In the event that these tickets would be cheaper than the payment of special line services, the municipalities would probably be happy to decide on this route, and otherwise probably not, although the inclusion of public lines in the market would also mean improved accessibility for pupils and other interested citizens. Some carriers have already registered school transport as line transport and have obtained concessions to do so and have acquired the right to transport other passengers besides children and thereby increase their income. In addition, compensation was obtained by the State for liner transport. Most carriers, especially those from the eastern part of the country, including the Municipality of Destrnik, carry out school transport as a special line transport. The register of special line transports is maintained by the Directorate for Roads. The analysis of these data showed that approximately 500 to 700 bus lines are carried out in the form of special line transport. A questionnaire was sent to all municipalities in 2003 on the cost of school transport per kilometer and per student in the context of the development of the professional task of regulating public bus transport in the Republic of Slovenia. Regrettably, only half of the municipalities provided questionnaire replies to the questionnaires that were completed, and some of the questions were either flawed or incorrect at the time of the re-checking. If we make an assessment of half of the municipality for the whole country, we find that the total annual cost of school-bound children is about 4 billion tolars, about 70,000 tolars per student per year. From a cost perspective, the optimal system is at the same time a ride for schoolchildren and other passengers. In order to ensure and improve the comprehensive supply of public passenger transport, it is most rational to combine all items in the budget intended for transport [[means: transport of schoolchildren, grants for student tickets, funds for transport in the framework of student scholarships, compensation for the execution of public line transport]] . On the basis of these findings, the Ministry of Transport has already prepared a starting point for the drafting of a public passenger transport law which must ensure the satisfactory and sustainable mobility of the population with the lowest national economic costs for all categories of the population. Work on the draft law was drawn up and an inter-ministerial working group was appointed in November to coordinate the preparation of the Public Passenger Transport Act, which is intended to provide adequate financial resources by combining budgetary items for transport with a view to providing more optimal and cheaper transport of primary school children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. She's only got a minute and 25 seconds left, Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. With the work of the answer just presented by a fellow magician. Christmas, satisfied, in particular with the solution offered, to combine in perspective, and relatively soon, all of these items, which are substantially more than he himself wrote in his reply. The Ministry of Labour, if I am not mistaken, is also involved in subsidisation in such or other forms of this issue. I therefore propose that the answer is actually sought in this direction. All the answers can't be given here by the state. We can combine items, of course, not with the start of the next year, because the budget is in place, but in the coming year we could think about a systemic change in this funding at least for 2007, as long as the budget rebalancing occurs, or for the next budget period. Now what it is, because the budget has been adopted. However, our ministry also favors this. Helps, subsidies are very dispersed and opaque and intransparency and ultimately benefits the most, as in this case, Certus in the eastern part of the country, which has an extremely monopolistic position on the market the most benefits, but who should benefit from them are children. I understand the problems of local communities, in particular small municipalities, that they have major problems, but these problems will also have to be overcome by some other mechanisms that I believe would be able to mitigate with rationalisation by renting these carriers until [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We come up with system solutions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u147	Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I will take this opportunity to ask an additional question so that you can complete the answers that have been prepared. However, it is certainly a fact that what happened this year, this simple municipal budget, respected by the Minister and respected government, will not be passed on in some municipalities. And it is imperative to sit together at these excesses, because the ministries co-finance the carriers in different ways and so on, and to settle some things here. On the one hand, companies receive money from the state budget and, on the other hand, they collect money from the municipal treasury outside all the criteria. I agree and am pleased that a systemic solution is being prepared in this area. It is also good to include someone from a local environment from this area who has a lot of experience, knowledge and will be able to contribute to this. However, I certainly urge you to do something in the coming month as a short-term measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Let me mention that an additional question cannot be asked; it is possible to request an additional answer. Is there anything else you'd like to add to the minister? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, who will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u150	Good evening, everyone! I ask the question to the Minister for Education and Sport, Mr Milan Zver: we were informed from the media that the City Council of the Municipality of Ljubljana adopted a decision on raising the price of programs in kindergartens by which it confirmed a 30% higher price, but also in some way a double price; that is, lower for children of parents with permanent residence in Ljubljana and another 30% higher, for those from other municipalities. With regard to this decision, your Ministry found and informed the Municipality of Ljubljana that there is no legal basis for this. The formation of double prices for the same programmes is not possible, as only one price must be established under the kindergarten law, which is the basis for the calculation of both parents and the municipality according to the pay grade. In the arguments, the Municipality of Ljubljana cites the non-real reasons why the surrounding municipalities should not invest in new investments, which is not true, since there were and will be only 6 new kindergartens in the municipalities around Domžal. However, according to the current legislation, it is true that certain costs that are not included in the price of programmes, such as investment maintenance, the purchase of games, equipment and the like, must be borne by the founder’s municipality. This is what the Municipality of Ljubljana wants to transfer directly to its parents from other neighbouring municipalities. At the same time, it declares publicly that these parents, in the distress they face, should turn to their mayors to enforce the difference. Nor do we know of such mitigating measures at this point in the local congregation how to enforce them in such a short time, where to find the legal basis and how this should be operationally done in practice. We were not prepared to do this because the Municipality of Ljubljana did not get to know us about the double price in its plans and therefore acted on our own initiative. This is a very dangerous practice, for we also have other congregations of children whose parents are not our citizens in kindergartens. Such measures lead to the total closure of municipalities within their own borders in the field of public services, of course to the detriment of users, parents and children in particular. We will also start counting at libraries, museums, cultural events, swimming pools and the like. I therefore ask the Minister: How will the Ministry act on these problems? And: How will it prevent MOL from enforcing an illegal double price increase? What will it do in particular if the MOL publishes an illegal decision and implements it as of 1 January? What should affected parents do in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you. Minister, Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable Member. Thank you for asking. The question that I have written, I can give it to you, but only for a moment would I answer it. But before that, I'd like to take an introductory point that puts your question into some context. As you know, there is now a transitional regime in place to determine kindergarten prices. This transitional regime is expected to end with 1.1 the following year according to the old standards, and since then the institutions are expected to develop prices independently, i.e. on a market-based basis. This transitional regime has been established in recent years in order not to immediately go to economic prices years ago, which would significantly undermine the price of services and seriously affect parents and all those who pay for preschool education. However, the price rise dynamics at that time were not sufficiently high, so that relaxation or a new economic price regime would once again act as a kind of shock, so we are thinking about extending this transitional regime for a year or two, and we are already preparing or already preparing an appropriate regulation. This Regulation will be sent or already sent to the community of municipalities, both to representative associations of local communities, and to the Council for the Development of Policies in the Field of Preschool Education, which brings together both kindergartens and local communities. And we will try to enforce the extension of this regime at the Ministry. At the same time, this means, indirectly, that the problem that has occurred to you and to the Ljubljana congregation will be meaningless and solved. This will automatically remove the decision taken by the Ljubljana City Council and the current transitional regime will be extended. We will agree on a date by time, with local communities as well as with kindergartens in this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u153	Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Answer Minister, who answers one part of the question, this is the price-setting policy concerning kindergartens and where obviously the economic price is getting so high, and the percentages that have concentrated in this recent period are extremely high, that, of course, 30% increase in prices for Ljubljana, which then also approved a reduction in some way for children who have a permanent residence in Ljubljana, of course, is not the perfect answer. That is why I am asking you after this work, this is the current solution that solves the issue of high price, but not the question of double priced prices, which indirectly - not only through the decision of the Ljubljana Municipality, but also some municipalities - is being applied in this area of public services. I don't think that's a good pattern, and the municipalities are looking for an opportunity that puts the burden on children who don't come from their own environments, and that's how they shut themselves down in their own environments. So once again, what is the answer to this second part? I assume that you are running out of time - and this is a model of double price formation where municipalities, obviously some can, find a lot of subsidies and lower prices here, and some of them have bigger problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u155	Mr. Secretary. I'll get you a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much for the additional question. I think I was first understood or clear enough. This decree, adopted by the Ljubljana City Council, will become irrelevant by extending the regime based on this new amended regulation. The municipalities will have to comply with the rules that will enter into force with 1.1. That's the answer. Well, there won't be double prices. However, the problem will continue to exist, including for Ljubljana. Also for Ljubljana. There are also some other municipalities in Slovenia, not just Ljubljana, in the position you are talking about, including some other, slightly larger municipalities, dealing with the same issue as Ljubljana. And on the one hand, this problem is also understood, because some municipalities - such a decree is contrary to the law, but they try to behave like a good host, to rationally use budgetary resources and, if there is no cooperation between municipalities, those who "export" if I say so under terms, children into other municipalities into preschool education, there comes and there may also be problems in the future as long as we have a transitional regime in place. So, there will be no double prices for the time being from the moment we apply this rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you. The next is Mr Friend, who will ask the Minister of Defence a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ministers, colleagues! As you know, the well-respected Minister of Defence, there are many illegal transfers in the Slovenian Army and a large number of lawsuits in this regard. It is not a disputed professional competence of the Slovenian Armed Forces, nor is the actual readiness of our defence forces disputed, but it is a controversial carry-on transfer of highly qualified personnel to the 211st logistics base. People are humiliated, even financially disadvantaged, as I have already said, almost 2,000 lawsuits have been made, decisions already issued are not taken into account, these are also cases in your kind, and in fact fighting units remain without weapons with more than 20 years of experience. The education obtained in the SFRJ is not recognised, and so the consequences are such that, in the case of "training", you must ask professional experts from Croatia to give you support in such important matters as the arms review and arms support. I would only read one case, and in the end, I would ask you, Your Honor, to give me assurances that you will meet with these people who have already spoken to them again and try to find a solution. Look, I have a letter addressed to me by the Claive of Christmas from Duke 195. He says, "Is it not sad that a highly qualified weapon for heavy, light military weapons, all the tribes of the land army, and for the military weapons of war for Slovenia, during the war the commander of the territorial defence with more than 20 years of experience, a military weapon - as has already been said - for all weapons, that he has been so severely degraded and sent to civilian duty for a construction worker?" Together with other colleagues, including essentially highly qualified drivers and others, who also have a fifth and a sixth degree, they are transferred to the so-called'straf butlion' as they say, and in fact others of them are already shaving, so they are called'stupid fools'. He returned all the medals, there were few of them, and in fact he also appeared to you. This case is not lonely, and there are many cases. Please: give your answer to this and ensure that these things are resolved in due course, that papers that are miraculously lost find that the advancements that have been written are taken into account and that somehow this injustice is corrected to these people. I'm asking you nicely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Erjavec, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u160	Good afternoon, Mr President. Your Honor, thank you for your question, but I must say that you have asked a different question than I have here in writing. However, despite this, you correctly note that there are objections in the Slovenian military, not lawsuits. At this point, we have 1,500 objections and about 300 lawsuits, but this is also the case coming out of 1990. Let me say that I have ordered that a team of 10 lawyers be prepared to deal with these objections, because in fact, these objections may become a problem. It is the fact that in the past year and this year we have placed all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces on a new basis, after new formations, that is, over 7,000 decisions, even twice done, and from this title these objections. It is a different type of objection: from I don't know, doses of annual leave to opposition to distribution and so on. In this regard, let me also say that we are preparing for the following year, in the first half of the year, the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. As you know, the position and status of Slovenian soldiers is governed by the law on defence and a meaningful law on civil servants. We believe that soldiers are not public servants, but this is something else, and that is why a special law is needed to regulate precisely the rights, obligations, responsibilities of members of the Slovenian Army. This is how I count on no more of these objections. I wouldn't want to comment from this place on a specific case, but I'm going to look into this. I can assure you that there is no "straf battalion" in the Slovenian Army, as you have stated. I think it was too much to say. I'll take a case to see exactly what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Only enough to actually find that he holds the Minister's warning: The question, Mr Friend, departs from what has been sent in writing, so I hope that this will no longer happen in the future. Otherwise, you have the opportunity to request a complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman. In no way departs from what I have said, even in the question I have pointed this topic out, but of course, there is no way to write the question to accuracy, because in fact then it makes no sense that I am reading it here. Otherwise, why didn't you, Minister-respected, answer me, "Why aren't the judgments already issued in the Slovenian Army taken into account?" There is no case, I can refer them to you 10 when positive court decisions have been issued for disadvantaged persons in such and other cases, but they have not been taken into account by military senior officers. In short, they insist on these sayings, either in writing or orally. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u163	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am not aware that in the Slovenian Army or the Ministry of Defence, we would not respect legal decisions. That's my news. I would ask you to convey such a decision to me. If that is true, I will take appropriate action if this is really happening. I doubt that's happening. I think things are still open. But if you have a specific case, I'd like you to send it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Moge is next to ask the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u166	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Madam Minister, this is the ministers, colleagues and colleagues present, a nice welcome. In Slovenia, it is unnecessary to talk about the fact that Dr Jože Mencinger is an unknown person. We all know him, more or less, that the Minister in Demos was the Government, that he was twice the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, that his area is wide-ranging between law, education, science and elsewhere. So I was surprised that we could read in Del on 9.12. that the Jesenica Gymnasium asked Dr. Mencinger if he wanted to be another member of the High School Council. Dr Mencinger agreed, and then he was informed from school that their proposal - of course it was under the authority of the government - the Ministry of Education rejected it, because it is the body that appoints it to the world. Why, in the case described, the Ministry acted as it did, interested Dr. Mencinger, but he did not receive an answer. Because I am also interested in why the government has decided to refuse membership to the distinguished Professor Dr. Mencinger, who, as he says, will not be in a life-altering position, but points to some characteristic of this government that it has a very skilled hand in the appointments so far, please, Mr. Minister, for an answer: Why did you reject the election to the world of Professor Jožet Mencinger?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you. Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. I also learned about this problem from the media, so I was rather embarrassed to hear such public stories about Mr Mencinger's failure to name him in the institution's world. However, it must be clarified. You can believe that the Minister can't do business - about 1300 institutions I have and there are so many worlds of institutions and there are so many and so many of our members of the country's representatives in various bodies and simply in each case, I can't deal with each case, I have enough work and other concerns. However, the procedure by which the government appointed its member was quite corrected. It is not customary for the institute's council to propose to someone himself to represent the government in the institution's world. Look. In the world of the institution, when there is a body that also exercises some control, there are representatives of the founder, in the case of secondary schools it is a state, there are two representatives, then there are 5 representatives of employees or workers, and 2 representatives of parents and students also have two representatives in the world. There is an opportunity for high school to propose an esteemed Professor Mencinger through a second channel to become a member of the world, if that is what they want, but it is rather unusual, but it rarely happens that the institution proposes to the government, so give us this representative as your representative to our supervisory board. Here the Ministry's services were doing the right thing, but I don't know who and they didn't follow this proposal from high school. I'm kind of sorry that it happened, and I'm sorry for Professor Mencinger's statements, which was a little reckless. It seems unnecessary to me that a big story or even an affair is now being created from a process that has been properly carried out by the Ministry of Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I have to be brief. It is clear that the world has the opportunity to propose a man who has done well to continue to represent interests as the founder. While Dr. Mencinger was not a representative of the workers, he was not a parent representative and was not a representative of the apprentices or students, and therefore the world could not get him in through these channels. What worries me more, Mr. Minister, is the criteria by which people judge who is right and who is wrong. You know, for a man like Dr. Mencinger, because he's really done a lot in life, and if someone wanted to, these people, if you left scissors and canvas in their hands, you'd have to think about other consequences of not naming such a man. In my opinion, if they have already done so, you should be warned and you should be informed by the public in some appropriate way, and all of this would not be a problem. There have been too many such cases now, and let us remember the appointment of directors to anyone else, so we in the parliamentary group, Mr Minister, have already met several times on a committee where we have talked to the end, we have been so good that we have also proposed a law which would have eliminated certain irregularities "ex-lege" already, but at the Ministry of Education you have categorically refused this law with the promise that this area of appointment of staff will be regulated by law. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, when do you intend to put the law into the procedure of the National Assembly - it is likely to be a change to the law on the organisation and financing of education, education - which will regulate these matters?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much for the additional question. We'll handle this the way we promised. The second year we will open the law of the ZOFI, which also regulates this area along with some other things, and this issue will be settled as promised at the time, including some of the solutions you proposed at the time. Once again, on this issue, I would like to point out that we as the founder have not rejected any proposal in any way, because the proposal of the local community or the world cannot be, as such a proposal is formally null and void. It could be because there is another channel where Professor Mencinger could become a member of the Council, in cases where the state has the right to propose two candidates. But usually it is agreed that one of these two proposes a local community, in so far as the institution has a broader character than the congregation, then the congregations agree on the other. I don't know why they didn't take advantage of these options, but once again I would like to point out that it's not in line with the practice for those who are supposed to be controlled to propose to themselves a name or a supervisor. You must understand this, however, that the procedure has been properly carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The following two questions are addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is excusedly absent, but I assume that the Members will nevertheless decide to put questions to him in absentia. The first one has the word "magic." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In opening, let me say that I expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs' oral reply when he may arrive at the National Assembly. The question is this: to join the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia has also had to meet all the political criteria whose core is respect for the civil standards of a democratic society. By ratifying the Constitutional Treaty, we recognised respect for human rights in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the fundamental value of 25-erica. However, when human rights violations are detected, we sometimes act ostracally and close our eyes to the facts, even agreeing to double standards, as recently noted by this Nobel Prizewinner for literature Harold Pinter. After 9/11, the world became aware that no one was safe from terrorism but that the answers to its causes and its prevention were different. I am a proponent of that way of dealing with terrorism, which not only builds on increasing security measures, but on a comprehensive and systematic solution to the causes. Politicians, including Americans, like to point out at the principle level that security must not reduce human rights levels, but we have been facing proven and alleged violations for a long time. The Council of Europe plays an important role in detecting violations, as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted resolution 1433 on the legality of the treatment of detainees in Guantanamo Bay on 26 April this year. It is not possible to hear warnings that the United States is also taking suspects abroad, transporting them without informing other governments, and being tortured by their people or people from countries willing to do so for the United States. In recent times, however, the European public has been disturbed by the news of secret prisons in some European countries. The use of secret prisons was discovered by UN experts. The Human Rights Committee recalls the inhumane treatment of prisoners in secret locations, which is a form of torture. I therefore raise a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What did he do as President of the OSCE when he heard about the secret locations of prisons where suspected terrorists were supposed to be? And what is the position of the Republic of Slovenia on allegations of human rights violations, when the fight against terrorism is in conflict with the fundamental values enshrined in the international conventions? I hope to get an answer before the Council of Europe discusses it, as Dick Marty suggested yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca has the floor for the same minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u176	Very briefly, but the government does not make up one minister, so there is nothing wrong with the matter being referred to others, but it does relate to events that have recently taken place in such a way that they have not happened. As can be seen from the media report, the Austrian ORF is expected to withdraw the envisaged screening of a documentary that discusses the life of the Korean Slovenians or speaks very radically about Article 7. Article 7 or Our Right is the address of the documentary. Of course, I fully understand and, in this sense, to the Minister, who is probably of the same opinion, it is clear that editorial policy is entirely independent, but, however, here it can be understood that it is not a matter of the independence of the media, but of a question of a purely political nature. I would encourage the Minister to - if he is not already - nevertheless by means of the diplomatic and other options he has in this case, act or help to clarify this outstanding political issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who will ask the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm going to go back to the question that I asked you a while ago. I'm going to get to that question more or less. The fact is, they are victims of sexual abuse and long-term suffering in the childhood of a specific victim. In addition to visible, behavioural problems, such a person’s mental disorder in later years is affected by a number of diseases, which are a direct result of sexual abuse, especially when it comes to such abuse in childhood. Unemployment is also one of the consequences. In short, in addition to the victim, the company is actually harmed for a healthy and active member. Even so, especially in terms of respect for human dignity and its physical and mental inviolability, the whole society, including politics - towards sexual violence - should especially victims, especially when it comes to child abuse, those of the most vulnerable members of our society, who enjoy or enjoy special protection under many conventions and other regulations - more responsible in the first place. Unfortunately, and here goes a great minus also to some legal experts, our society is still focused primarily on rapists, pedophiles. I've only heard a few times in recent times that in the event of an increase in the sentence for rapists, this would be an excessive intervention into their privacy. Similarly, some raise the question of the so - called register of convicted pedophiles. I stress here that the interests of society and not the interests of the individual, the perpetrator, should be at the forefront here. That is why, Mr Minister, I have already addressed to you the question of the introduction of the so-called paedophile registry and have also referred to you a month ago, as agreed, the case of Great Britain in the area, which is an example of good practice in caring for greater protection of children against sexual violence. Today, I ask you: Will Slovenia join the European project to create a network of registers or registers of pedophiles? On 24 October this year, however, you said that the amendments to that sectoral legislation should be sufficient, where, as a condition for employment, explicit evidence of impunity for offences against sexual inviolability would be provided. It is specifically a law on education and education. In my opinion, although the law is too narrow, I ask you: What is your position or position on extending the penal code? [[End warning sign]] - just to complete the sentence - by mandatory checks on employees before employment or the conclusion of a working relationship or contracts for educational, educational, protective and guardianial areas?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you. Minister Dr. Sturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. Let me first briefly state that my position on whether this issue should be dealt with legally is yes. However, I must say that this is not a regulation that goes into the criminal code, but into the field legislation. On the one hand, it is necessary to ensure, if I say very simply, that there is no employment of any person who could be in the designated record you spoke of, in all those institutions dealing with education or with working with young people. This can be achieved, this must be regulated by legislation. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that such persons can also be prevented from performing such a profession. It's not a matter of criminal code, it's a matter of sectoral legislation. I have also also coordinated and discussed with the Minister for Education and Sport as well as with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and I can tell you that in general the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also supports efforts to prescribe additional conditions at the normative level for those applying for employment in education and education. Therefore, the ministries responsible: for education and education - the Ministry of Education and Sport and Care - this is the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs - to propose in the field legislation as soon as possible provisions which will effectively regulate the conditions of employment in the field of education and education from that point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Complementary answer, Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I asked you: What exactly is your position on expanding the penal code in this work? I will say again - to extend the penal code by mandatory checking of employees prior to employment or by concluding a contract for educational, educational, protective and guardianial areas. On 24.10.2005, in particular, you replied to my question by letter that the criminal code provided a legal basis for sectoral legislation. While it is clear to me that legislation, especially in the field of education and education, including leisure or school and school activities, and, last but not least, for care and fostering relations, must regulate this area. However, you yourself said that the criminal code gave legal basis to the area legislation. And if you'll excuse me, you've ordered that laws be regulated by individual ministries. I wonder: What is your position on the general law, which, in addition to institutional protection, includes, as I said before, leisure and other educational activities? I speak, of course, in connection with the mandatory verification of a person who is employed, employed in a post, briefly enters into a contract in the workplace which is linked to education and education and, of course, to the criminal liability of employers in the event of a breach of the statutory inspection. In fact, I am also talking about the appropriateness of the one who cares for the child, not just about his punishment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you for saying that again. Thus, Articles 67 and 100 of the Penal Code already regulate this area, but it is not, as I said, regulated in the field legislation. This is why the sectoral legislation will be the one that will complement this issue. However, my opinion favours and is positive on your proposal to settle this in all those cases where I will say whoever comes in contact with and deals with young people, I agree that it is necessary to allow verification of whether these are trustworthy persons who can do such work. This, of course, is also a matter for a thorough review of additional sectoral legislation, and this is by no means within the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Yelen to ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I am asking a question from the Member States about the setting of mobile antennas. We have recently witnessed that there is a real anarchy or disorder in our country regarding the setting up of mobile antennas, because people or certain mobile antenna organisations are setting up wherever they seem, despite the fact that most people do not agree. I also cannot agree with the setting of antennas on church bells, firehouses, private dwellings or state institutions, for example. So I ask you, Mr Minister, who is responsible for setting up mobile antennas and who gives them their consent? Administrative unit, municipality or local community? I also ask you: How can you act if mobile antennas are built overnight and the residents have not even come to know it? For the sake of all of this, I propose that the situation in this area be regulated as soon as possible, with a view to determining the originator of the consent and the price to be carried out. Only on the basis of fulfilled conditions or criteria should mobile antennas also be installed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. I will try to answer your questions in concrete terms. Mobile public telecommunications networks can be constructed in accordance with legislation, such as the Construction of Buildings Act and a larger number of sub-legislative regulations, to build either with a building permit or without a building permit. The Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible for issuing building permits for self-contained mobile public network base stations, which are of national importance. Administrative units shall be responsible for issuing building permits for all other mobile public telecommunications network facilities for which a building permit is to be obtained. However, operators may build base stations intended for public telecommunications services, even without a building permit, in the case of a simple facility consisting of an antenna drug, an antenna carrier and a telecommunications device, and meet all the construction conditions set out in the above-mentioned Regulation. Therefore, in our view, there is no anarchy here. We therefore justify the following. First time. Construction procedures shall be conducted in accordance with the Construction Act and the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Another time. Before issuing a building permit, the Ministry or the Administration shall carry out a specific determination procedure to determine whether the project is designed in accordance with an implementing spatial act governing the area of the intended installation of the mobile phone facility or whether the project is made by a legal or natural person. Third time. In the construction permit procedures, the parties involved shall be designated by the administrative authority or administrative unit or ministry, on the basis of the influential area shown by the border in the construction permit project. Who are the sidekicks? These are property owners and holders of service or building rights on property in the affected area of the facility concerned and landowners outside the building plot on which the import road is envisaged and on which municipal connections are envisaged. Fourth time. The parties shall be informed at oral hearings of the investor's requirements and of all the project documentation submitted. Even in the case of the construction of simple mobile telephony facilities without a building permit, the investor must clearly determine before the start if certain conditions are met. For example, the size and method of construction and use shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation or an investor must have on the ground on which such a part is to be built, owned or other real or bonded right. Therefore, it follows that the investor must fulfil a series of conditions that are specified or in the building permit or are verified before the construction of the simple facility. Above this is the inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space. I got the exact number of procedures in last year, as in the year before. In 2003, the inspectorate had this as one of its priorities in this area due to numerous remarks and protests by the locals. On your question, setting facilities on buildings such as churches, firehouses, is only possible, for the first time, if it allows for an implementing spatial act, if there is a need for agreement of the facility managers and if the owners of these facilities allow it. The owner has to give his consent, the investor has the most service contract with him, and he probably has a small salary for it. Who's the co-conspirator? The administrative unit is not the co-consentor, but is the administrative authority responsible for issuing the building permit. Neither the congregation nor the local community are co-sponsors. The intention of mobile telephone operators regarding the construction of these buildings is informed of the municipality in which such an object is intended to stand. In any event, the operator shall obtain the location information issued by the municipality on request in accordance with a specific law on the regulation of the premises. There is no legal basis for an investor to inform or inform the public before building mobile telephony facilities. Only in the case of interventions that may have a significant impact on the environment should procedures be carried out that have an impact on the environment. On the subject of electromagnetic radiation, I would like to tell you just the following. There is also a special non-governmental institution called the Electromagnetic Radiation Forum. I think it has an important role to play and a specific code of good practice is in place, which speaks of the need to promote the strengthening of rapid dialogue with local communities, the public, the consideration of environmental aesthetic aspects of the placement of new resources, the promotion of scientific research. This forum was also published by a special expert publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Gulič has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u190	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Minister Drobnic! See, voluntary supplementary pension insurance is already regulated by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. There are conditions for his work and in 17 days he will be five years away, allowing him to participate in voluntary supplementary insurance. Since the beginning of this October, however, we have often read about various irregularities that one of the pension companies is supposed to have done. It is the payment of commissions to directors who have concluded collective supplementary pension insurance, then misleading informational calculations. The last affair relates to the Faculty of Economics in Maribor, since it is included in supplementary pension insurance, but without the possibility of obtaining tax benefits. These tax reliefs, however, have been recognized by individuals, so today we actually have a series, even a number of people who have somehow committed or written these reliefs. I wonder: How will the Ministry act against the pension society? And of course this: Who will repay to the college and its workers the damage that occurred at that time? There's something else I want to know. How many similar cases are there when pension providers make additional pensions with different entities, but employees cannot obtain tax benefits from them? What will you do as a minister to restore your reputation and trust in voluntary supplementary pension insurance, which nevertheless represents at least some social adjustment in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much, honourable Member for the question raised. In Slovenia, institutional supervision of pension companies carrying out supplementary pension insurance is regulated. Thus, we have arranged for the pension plan to be approved by the Minister responsible for the work in accordance with Article 297 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Then we have the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Markets Agency, which exercise each of their powers to control employers who finance the pension plan, but at the same time we have a tax administration that supervises taxpayers who are also entitled to any tax relief under this law. The Insurance Supervisory Agency may, when it detects irregularities, rule out infringements, impose additional measures to implement the rules on risk management. Each such company must comply with the conditions prescribed by the law in terms of insurance, must have rules, ensure that risks are managed, that a reservation is made and so on. It may withdraw the authorisation to carry out insurance business, issue a decision on emergency management, a decision on the commencement of liquidation, a decision on the conditions for the initiation of insolvency proceedings. These are the measures of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. However, PPIZ may also perform certain control functions. The supervisory authorities may, within their respective competences and in accordance with the above in the exercise of control under this law, review without restriction the business books, files and other documents relating to the operation of the pension fund. What's wrong with that? It is necessary to state the infringement, to report it, of course, and then we have these institutions that are in control. As a minister alone, or as my professional colleagues within the Ministry, we do not have direct powers to exercise control. Institutional supervision is and in accordance with the law, if found, damage must also be remedied. Return those unjustified reliefs that then go into the budget, and if individuals have been injured, even in the recovery of funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, would you like another word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u194	I thank the Minister, of course, for this explanation of what can be done or how these matters are proceeding procedurally. But here we do have, for example, a very specific case concerning the Faculty of Economics. As a matter of fact, it was quite soon known here. The inability of tax reliefs was brought to the attention of the first pension company, i.e. the one who made the insurance and the university in July 2002. However, of course, the case is somewhat silently running and the first pension company is still providing insurance for the employees of this university, although it knows that they are not entitled to tax benefits. That must have raised some 200 million of these missing contributions. Besides, people are still at fault. The tax woman did her thing, why the others didn't do it, I don't know. But of course, I also know that the ministry and the minister have some moral authority over this, and I think this silence actually agrees that things will be settled. So what are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u195	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u196	In this particular case, I will look into the stage of this procedure. Of course, I must not influence decisions, but of course I must do my best or act in accordance with the law. I will check how these things are handled and, if necessary, what is necessary, in the light of my powers, in terms of the approval of pension plans as well. Only my function is limited to that. Otherwise, I will ask myself what is the stage in which these procedures are for the elimination of illegal acts and, of course, for the exercise of control.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Weber next has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all, especially to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič! My question concerns the income situation of farmers, which we find must be comparable to the income level in other areas, if we are to preserve the processing areas and the development of agriculture as such in the future. To a large extent, the existence of successful farming is linked to subsidies which they can enforce and also to grants which they can also obtain through tenders. I note that there has been a significant backlog this year in the payment of subsidies and in the implementation of measures relating to investments or invitations to tender for the allocation of funds for investments in agricultural holdings. The comparison with last year shows that in 2004 most of the decisions were issued for rural development until 30.10. This also gave rise to the fact that the funds arrived in the same year, that is, by December, also in Slovenia from the European Union. This year, we note that the decisions were not issued until October, and I am therefore interested in: How did the decision-making in 2005 and how much funding were planned by the Ministry in 2005, and how much money have we actually acquired to date? I am interested in both the field of subsidies and investment in agricultural economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to respond with regard to the issue of decisions. The deadline for granting subsidies in 2005 is from 1 December of this year and until 30 June of the following year. This regulation has been amended and is just as I explained it to you. The Agency began its decision-making for 2005 with December 1st and issued 30,000 decisions to date. 7,000 decisions are in preparation and will be issued by the end of this week. The other decisions will be issued within the following year, up to the time limit prescribed by the law. In the 2005 budget, subsidies included data from ECO 0 or direct payments and for actions of the rural development programme, OMD payments, EU standards and environmental payments, including ECO1, ECO2 and ECO3, total 42 billion 65 million tolars. This amounts to the reimbursement of EU funds in 2005 - 25 billion 265 million tolars. So far, funds have been requested and recovered and paid from the EU by 14 December - 17 billion 925 million tolars. About 4 billion are in preparation. The difference is in just over 4 billion, but the demand will be made in the coming days, which is until 31.12. The situation in the area or investments in agricultural holdings where investments are foreseen in the single programming document is slightly worse. They are paid from the Slovenian budget 50% and from the euro 50%, i.e. the European budget ratio and the Slovenian budget are 50 to 50 for investments in the agricultural economy. In the 2005 budget, 2 billion 542 million were planned and paid to beneficiaries by 14.12. 575 million tolars. Applications for reimbursement of the euro to the Ministry of Finance amount to EUR 230 million and for EUR 545 million are reviewed at the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you for this part of the answer, although I'm worried about the following. If I read the data published on 7 December in the Kmeček vote and submitted by the Director-General of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, it is clear that 63,329 applications for direct payments to ECO 0 and for compensatory payments to ECO 1, 2 and 3, i.e. for restricted areas, and that 56,000 applications have been submitted to supplement these applications. This information you gave me is somehow not consistent with what the agency has published. If this information is also true that 56,000 applications have been rejected or additional requests have been issued, this is certainly also linked, for the first time, to the loss of funds to be received by farmers, secondly, also to the costs incurred by supplementing applications, not only by the Agency, but also to the costs incurred by farmers who have to make additional efforts, an additional time to complete these applications. I would like to know whether this information, which was published in the Khmer Rouge's vote on 56,000 applications, is holding, and how much more will it cost if it is true?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u203	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u204	I am talking about the data we record in our budget. The Agency works by providing funds, they pay, but the records are kept with us. The fact that there have been a large number of calls for applications is true. This does not mean, however, that these people were not entitled to the funds that belonged to them as direct payments. Complementing applications means that a deficiency has been identified and that the Agency has set a time limit within which the beneficiary has rectified this error and thus obtained the right to payment of funds. That there were a large number of calls for additions, at least for 45,000 cases, is a reason in graphic terms. Digital cadastral plans have been used, and we know that they are positionally inaccurate or do not meet the requirements of the European Union and the unsuspecting aero recordings. All of this contributed to the fact that the graphic basis was not a reflection of the actual situation in nature, so calls for additions were needed. This has been largely settled and people have received 37,000 cases of decisions. Others who meet these conditions will receive their decisions in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Given that the Minister of Justice has apologized for having another obligation, I am asking the Member of Parliament or would still like to ask a question. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Good evening to all present. Dear Minister, ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I myself would like to address my question to the Honourable Minister for Justice, Dr Šturm, on the topic that has already been opened today, and even more so at the previous two meetings, where Member Potrč, at the 10th regular meeting of the National Assembly, asked the Prime Minister how much of the total value that was returned to the denationalising beneficiaries was returned to the Roman Catholic Church. At the next meeting, he also pointed out that at least until 2000, very precise data were kept on the returned property of the Roman Catholic Church. In this regard, I would like to ask: Did the Ministry really have such a record and, if so, on what basis? What information does the Ministry of Justice have on returned property in the denationalisation procedures? In this regard, I would also like to ask: What data relating to denationalisation were kept between 1991 and today, by who? In what way did the Ministry of Justice monitor the management of the data, how did it ensure that the submission was guided and, last but not least, how does the Ministry of Justice manage this information at this time? Please, if Justice Minister Dr. Lovro Sturm could answer my question at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you very much. And now, as the last in the first round of questions, I invite Mr Zagorec to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I ask the Minister: What measures within the competent ministry are the Ministry providing for a reduction in the average age of an agricultural operator? It is a fact and we all know that you yourself, Madam Minister, said that the average age on the farm is 58 years, which means that the reduction of this average age of the agricultural operator is essential, because we know that several economic theories say that by increasing the age of a particular sector, productivity, which we all know in the agricultural sector, we cannot and must not afford if we want to leave anything in Slovenia that we could call agriculture. Last but not least, did the subsidies from the European Union increase interest in agriculture in a certain percentage? We know that the Ministry of Agriculture has not been very successful in the past, although it has always been stated in this National Assembly that we are well prepared to draw on subsidies and that statistics show otherwise. They show that Slovenia is on the invisible tail of the new Member States in obtaining agricultural subsidies. Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr Member, for this matter. I'm sure it's in place. Your claim is that the average age of an agricultural holding is 58 years. We also know that technological transformation of the farm and the different organisation of the farm require adequate personnel, which must be young, organisationally capable and educated. How do you do that? Last year, we started with two measures that would contribute to structural changes in agricultural economies, a measure of early retirement, which means that, at the age of 55, an agricultural holding can be transferred, the farm can be transferred to a younger generation, and it is eligible for the so-called pension, and I will not say that it is retirement, but the entitlement to a pension that can be enjoyed for ten years to the extent that it is set to the extent of the area transferred to the younger generation. With this measure, we want to ensure social security for the older generation in the old days. For the younger generation, we are implementing a measure called the action of a young farmer. This means that all holders of farms that meet these educational and other conditions can apply for certain funds and receive financial assistance to cover the costs of transferring the farm to a younger generation and to pay the heirs. I must say that there have been 330 cases running for this measure this year; unlike in 2004, 20 candidates have been granted funding. We have provided funds in the budget for all these cases that meet the conditions and have also received decisions and funds will be earmarked. You mentioned education. I have been very busy in Brussels and have also achieved that Europe, Brussels, will co-finance the education of farmers at all levels, in regular study, at work, regardless of age. We will start education by means of measures. We are now preparing appropriate programmes for 2007 and will start implementing them in the new 2007-2013 programming period.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thanks again for saying that. The first measure, early retirement, is a measure already known by Slovenia. Last time we met him was when he retired the cops, but we know he didn't produce any fruit. I wonder: Is there enough young staff to take over these farms? Last but not least, I must say that I support your idea of educating a young farmer: what is your estimate, given that we are getting very different grades from Brussels, the size of a farm that could survive within the European Union and could be taken over by a young farmer who could say that with this size of a farm, I would survive myself and possibly my family? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you. One more time, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u214	This isn't about retirement like you mentioned. This is about supporting older agricultural operators to transfer their farm to a younger generation, and for this they earn a monthly rent of 10 years. This isn't retirement. At the same time, they also have to pay for disability and pension insurance. Once they have fulfilled this condition for retirement, their pension is reduced for this value. It's kind of an incentive to just get transferred to a younger generation at these years. And we must not mix this with regular retirement. You asked what kind of farm has a perspective. We know that the Slovenian farm is on average between 5 and 6 hectares. The size of the farm depends on the type of production. A two-hectare farm can already offer someone, say, market production if it goes into the gardening direction. For permanent plants with less than 10 hectares, it is likely to fail or at least economically successful. In cattle, we know it's 30 hectares and more. So some formulas that someone should decide about a farm is their business decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much. This concludes the so-called first round of questions. Now we have Ambassador Gulic and Mag in the second. It's a waste. Mr Gulič will ask the Minister of Transport first. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u216	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Madam Minister and ministers! My question is the Mag. Janez Bozič, however, is connected to everything that is happening on Slovenian roads. Maybe now it's a little less than the end of the motoristic season, though. Statistics led by the Ministry of the Interior or the police show that this year the number of accidents has decreased, but that the number of motorcycle accidents has increased, with more dead and more seriously injured. Statistics also say that the cause of these accidents is mainly unadjusted speed, then irregular overcoming, disregarding the advantages, inadequate safety distances and irregularities on the vehicle and on the road. With these irregularities on the road, I'd stop. This is because the cause of the type of accident was that the vehicle was not cleaned after the end of winter, after the transports carried out, after the Polish parts carried out, that also the bays with which the vehicle was repaired and the inadequate equipment of the safety fences were affected, there are said to be inappropriate safety fences acting as blades. The season's over, like I said, but it's probably time to start thinking about a new season. It's gonna be pretty soon. If it's gonna be cold, it could be tomorrow. Therefore, as minister, I ask you: Do you estimate that this is a matter of negligence in road maintenance, or do standards for authorised roadkeepers in this area seem unsatisfactory, or is the control of their work unsatisfactory? I would also like to ask: Do you intend to set up standard safety equipment for fences, to adapt to the needs of motor bike drivers? I know something is already going on there between Novo Gorica and Bovec on the initiative of civil motorists and local communities. I would also like to ask: Will this be done systematically in the next period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you. Minister Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Member! The standards of regular maintenance of public roads, namely state and municipal roads, lay down rules on types of maintenance works on public roads and the level of regular maintenance of public roads. This provides, among other things, that transport surfaces must be maintained in such a way as to enable safe and unhindered traffic. All components of the road must be cleaned in such a way as to remove anything which may have a negative impact on traffic safety. They are responsible for the implementation of the Regulation: for motorways and fast roads, the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and for other national roads, and for the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, which supervises operators of regular maintenance of main and regional roads. However, the municipalities or their mayors are responsible for the maintenance of municipal roads in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation. The inspection of traffic controllers of state roads is carried out by the Transport Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, who does not present a problem in his annual reports of poorly cleared or unpolluted state roads, which would be irregular according to the applicable regulation. Recently, we have gradually increased the control of municipalities with regard to the implementation of the maintenance of municipal roads, where we check the compliance of the implementation of the compulsory public economic service for the maintenance of municipal roads with the rules applicable to public roads. In the event of a finding of illegal conduct, we shall act in accordance with the provisions of the Local Self-Government Act. We are aware that the maintenance of public roads, which certainly affects their safe use, can be further improved. We will definitely continue our efforts to improve the state of public roads. In the area of traffic signalling and equipment on public roads, we are now finalising the preparation of amendments and the completion of the current regulation. Within the framework of the technical basis for amending and supplementing the rules on traffic signalling and transport equipment on public roads, the provisions on safety fences have also been examined and we will, on this basis, further improve the regulation. I assure you that, in the context of the revisions to this Regulation, we will certainly also take into account your suggestions and not least the number of accidents that have increased significantly in recent years. However, it should also be said that, on the basis of existing public road regulations, it is possible to equip the road with appropriate and transport-safe signalling and equipment, but of course the amount of available funding allocated to the reconstruction of the state road network is an essential issue. We will also continue to strive for adequate or improved public road equipment, but unfortunately only within available funding. However, as I have already mentioned, this is an essential feature or a novelty in some way that we will be in the context of the revisions of this Regulation, these suggestions coming from several parts of civil society, not least of all the different societies and clubs involved in the activity of motorcycles, that we will prescribe in critical cities where there is a greater number of accidents, the use of which is the installation of a double protection fence. That's it, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. He wants to, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u220	I would just like to thank the Minister for his answers and wish him and all the motorcycle brothers that all of this would happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you very much for these slightly unusual wishes. Otherwise, the English would say "last but not least" in Slovenian, and not least of all, the sous-chef to the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Dr. Simoniti. The question I am asking you is not unexpected, given that I have asked you once only at the beginning of your ministerial journey: What will be the fate of the law on the public use of Slovenian, given what has been written or written in the coalition contract? To wake up one day. The Coalition will examine the appropriateness of the language law, in particular as regards the question whether there has been excessive regulation in individual segments and, if necessary, adopt amendments and additions to this law. Now that I ask you in another direction which changes will be made in the law on the public use of Slovenian, I am relying on a document called the draft resolution on the national research and development programme for the period 2006-2010, because I have not received an answer to this question on the home working body. The change is foreseen for 2006 and the Ministry of Culture is the one who is kind of the custodian of this law. However, there are two other ministries, namely the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Economy. What do I want to know? If it says that it is necessary to amend the law on the public use of Slovenian in order to ensure the achievement of the objectives of international mobility and cooperation in the field of the innovation system, I am rightly asked what in this law, the law in force, is such that it will be necessary to amend, given that we also have before us the first annual report on the implementation of the legal provisions relating to the Slovenian language in 2004. We have this report on our tables since 15 September 2005 and it is clear that the Chairman of the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport is not worth prioritising, but it does provide information on the fact that the Ministry of Culture with a state of affairs, in particular as regards the economy, the name of companies, is not entirely satisfied. So let me ask you again: What changes to the law on the public use of Slovenian are you planning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you. Minister Dr. Simoniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much for the statement, Mr President, honourable Member, thank you for the question. Indeed, this national research and development programme for 2006 and 2008 states that amendments will be adopted under the law on the public use of Slovenian. However, I believe that this issue could perhaps be addressed more appropriately to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, because this has also been written by the Ministry alone in this national programme. However, since the question of question sent is, of course, addressed directly to the Minister of Culture, I can say that the Ministry of Culture is not planning any changes in this regard. Of course, the National Research and Development Programme envisages changes, but as I am aware of by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in particular the expansion of the research and higher education area into the European Union and, of course, wider. This also concerns the expansion of the functioning of higher education institutions, which means greater involvement of foreign students and foreign professors. These changes are not or will not affect the use of the Slovenian language itself, nor will they require this amendment to change the law itself on the public use of Slovenian. This is due to the fact that, of course, the existing law on higher education already provides sufficient room for the proper design of partial teaching. if you want, in foreign languages, with respect for Slovenian language or Slovenian at all levels. The government will also work in the future to preserve and promote Slovenian language culture at all levels of education and, of course, also in public life. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u225	Yes, please, Master Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General, for this answer. I know that the issue of the use of Slovenian, at least as far as the economy is concerned, upsets you. That's what you finally said in the festive speech on the day of the Reformation. But I addressed this issue to your Ministry simply because the Ministry responsible for culture is the one entrusted with monitoring all these changes and it would certainly be advisable to ask whether the coordination body already established is also the one set out in Article 27 of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian. But I have asked this question for a special purpose. In the document in which I found a measure which envisions an amendment to the law on the public use of Slovenian, it is also written on the 39th page of the Rapporteur that, in the event of the introduction of an obligation to submit proposals for research in certain areas in English alone, there is already a first problem to be discussed. At the same time, the Expert System for Humanities specifically mentions the contribution to the development of the Slovenian professional term as a criterion for assessing the value of a research programme. Given that the deficit in the professional term is not so great in humanities, but in other areas of scientific and research work, it would be interesting to look at what is planned there, especially if I note that Eurocorpus and Euroterm - these are two terminology collections - were only accessible and updated or supplemented by new deadlines by April, and not more, concern is, in particular, as regards terminology, significant. Thank you very much if you can answer this part of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u227	Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. It will be difficult for me to respond competently to this comment in the second part, because I am not really familiar with the details right now. I agree, however, that I understand in your question or your explanation that it is a matter of concern, logic, Slovenian language and the ability of this language to find the right terminology on the professional level on the various fields, which is appropriate and right for the Slovenian language itself. As far as I know, this is to a large extent the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art or the Science and Research Centre at the Academy. The whole range of terminology dictionaries is actually in preparation and in this I fully agree that this terminology needs to be adequately developed. Absolutely. However, I believe that this cannot be a satisfactory answer at this time, and I commit myself to getting it in a more comprehensive form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I thank the Government for the answers, you, my fellow Member and Members, for the patience that you have endured to the end. Of course, I also thank my co-workers for their help. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I wish all of you a pleasant and peaceful December evening! Thank you.
