ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Anton Anderlič, Aurelio Juri, Josip Bajc, Roberto Battelli, Samo Bevk, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Ljubo Germič, Matjaž Han, Kristian Janc, Miran Jerič, Bojan Kontic, Dušan Kumer, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Rudolf Može, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Sašo Peče, Milan Friday, Alojz Posedel, mag. Anton Rop, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Majda Širc, Jožef Školč, Janko Weber, Boštjan Zagorac, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Barbara Žgajner Tavš. I also invite the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister, Dr Bručan, to the meeting. We are moving on to the agenda of the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the assembly that the agenda be extended by re-decision on the law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport. You received the proposal by letter dated 26 July 2005. Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. The vote may take place if an orange light is on the right side of the card inserted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider this item as the 5th item of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference and with the proposed addition. We're voting. The vote is under way. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Dr. Bruchan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u2	Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In these few introductory words, I would like to present in these few minutes the amendments to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. In essence, it is the provision of supplementary health insurance and the introduction of compensatory schemes in this area. The situation in the area of supplementary voluntary insurance is now completely imprudent for the consumer and for the insured, as well as for health policy. It is also partly unstable and, at some points, uncontrollable, and effective control of it is difficult and impossible. This is due to a lack of, inconsistent and non-constant legal arrangements from the past period, there beginning in 1999. Additional insurance is currently being marketed in Slovenia by three insurance companies. All the insurance contracts concluded cover the same content, that is, the difference between the total value of health services, which by content, volume and standard are the right of compulsory health insurance, and the part of that value that goes under the burden of compulsory health insurance. However, these contracts differ in essential elements, such as the duration of insurance, the degree of differentiation, the amount of the premium, etc., so as not to list all these differences. However, in the case of insurance undertakings in the form of a mutual insurance company, supplementary insurance shall mean, at the same time, the acquisition of the status of a member of the insurance company, thereby belonging to that member also to ownership rights and obligations. In view of the unclear legal provisions in the previous law and the non-compliance of those provisions with other provisions in the exercise of supervision over insurance undertakings issuing this insurance, the Authority has in the past had relatively limited possibilities and also plenty of difficulties. However, the necessary condition for the implementation of the compensatory schemes in the future can be achieved through the uniform implementation of the supplementary insurance. The supplementary insurance insurance in Slovenia, which is about a million 300,000, also largely coincides with the electoral body in the country. Taking into account the large-scale assets in this insurance, the financial burden has been paid or the premium of supplementary insurance for citizens - the possible impact of this insurance on social policy in the country, the legal irregularities in the field, is understandable the specific role of insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary insurance. Public interest is also expressed and it is therefore very important that we propose some solutions in these amendments to the law. It is the principle of intergenerational reciprocity and the determination of the actual public interest of the State in supplementary insurance and the fulfilment of that interest. We would also like to introduce further in the proposal the requirement of equal value of the premium for all insurers of the same insurance undertaking at the same time and, in addition, no mathematical reservation or reservation for age shall be established in accordance with the new arrangement. The draft law also regulates the possibility of withdrawing from the insurance contract by the insurer. This is a significant difference from the current law, where practically the insurer did not have these options at all. There were some options, but these options were difficult to implement. The bill also provides for the return of the mathematical provisions and reservations made for the age of the last four years. In the law we had to limit ourselves to returning these reservations to those insurers who also made these reservations realistically and effectively. Indeed, given that these contracts have been signed, they are binding and constitute a need to repay those insurers who have made these reservations. With regard to the bill - let me conclude because I have only half a minute left - I say that we wanted to regulate the situation on this market in particular - if I so say - and at the same time to protect the insured from unnecessary changes and irritations and, on the other hand, to equalise the functioning of insurance undertakings on an equal level, regardless of the age and gender of the insured in each insurance undertaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister. The proposal for a law dealt with the health department as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President, the Committee of Mr Franz Jazbec, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Respectable. At its fifth emergency meeting on 27.7.2005, the Health Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. At its 32nd regular meeting on 15.7.2005, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health and Health Insurance should be considered on an urgent basis. In addition to the legislative proposal for consideration at the meeting, the members of the Committee received the following materials: the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats to Articles 3 and 13, the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 1, 3, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14, and 19, 21 and 22, the amendments of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia to Articles 5 and 20, and the proposal for a new 8a. Article 3, Article 13, Article 18 and Article 19 of the Amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Members of the New Slovenia Group, Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group and Members of the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retirement Party to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 13, 18, and 19 of the Slovenian Consumers' Association. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and in its written opinion made a number of comments to the 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 19 and Article 23 of the proposal. Mr Andrej Bručan, Minister of Health, gave an introductory explanation of the bill. Some members of the Committee, on their behalf and on behalf of the groups of Members, presented the amendments they had tabled to the draft law and discussed the legislative text. They agreed that it was necessary for the law to have positive characteristics mainly due to the application of the new model of supplementary health insurance. It is a fact that compensatory schemes are necessary and that greater competition is needed on the market for complementary health insurance. In accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee then came to a second reading of the draft law and, on the basis of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure, held a debate and a vote on the amendments and articles of the proposed law. The members of the Committee did not support the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 3, the amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 18, 19 and 22, the amendments of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club to Articles 5 and 20, and did not support the new Article 8a and the amendment of the Ambassador of Ms Brede Pečán to Articles 3, 8, 13 and 19. It became irrelevant to the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 13, and Ambassador Breda Pecan withdrew the amendment to Article 8. The members of the committee supported the amendments of the parties to the coalition, the SDS, NSI, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS after all the amendments proposed and Mrs Breda Pecan's members to Article 18. The Committee also proposed an amendment to Article 8 which states that in Article 62, in the first sentence of the fourth paragraph, the words "for at least 10 years" shall be added to the word "insurance". The members of the committee are invited to propose to the National Assembly that the proposed law be adopted together with all the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Social Democrats, Mrs Breda Pecan will present her position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. The delegation of the Group of Social Democrats supported and also supported the urgent procedure at the College of the President of the National Assembly and the inclusion in an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly because we believe that the compensatory schemes are the only currently known and sufficiently effective solution for the resolution of the actual non-exhaustible situation, in particular the situation in which, in particular, the pension population and the population of the more difficult chronic patients may be in a situation where they will have to start paying disproportionately high insurance premiums for voluntary supplementary health insurance. However, despite the fact that we are aware that the law is necessary, we cannot go beyond the fact that the procedure that began months ago in the Ministry of Health and later through the government. That the negotiations on this law, because it was much broader than we have now received in the National Assembly, had already begun so early that at that time a multitude of minor shortcomings, illogicality, errors could have been eliminated only by the Ministry of Health, the government's office for legislation and all those who had been involved in the law in such and other ways. It is also unacceptable that, although it has been clear from the outset that it will also be necessary to amend individual articles of the Insurance Act and the Insurance Tax Act, no one in the Government or outside of it in coalition types has considered such a practice to be corrected by one law, the content and text of the articles of the second and third laws are considered inadmissible; that the legislative procedure is as we have established in this national assembly and this country, thereby radically violated and that such practice can result in chaos in the legislative process. I believe that this should be science and school, both to the Ministry of Health and to all other drafters of the new proposals and to the Government as a whole, that such proposals are not, of course, admissible to invest in the National Assembly. And I think that, at the very least, the President of the National Assembly should listen to the warnings of the Justice Service and the legislation of our National Assembly, that this is unusual, that I should not say the wrong practice, which should by no means be applied further. The fact is that other than the fact that the autumn insurance law and the law on the tax on the transport of insurance business will have to be changed will not remain. If we had already opened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly early enough and, above all, rationally, if we had already put the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance into this meeting, we could have included two rather simple amendments to these two laws, but not that there is a systematic breach of the normal and acceptable legislative procedure. I would also like to predict that the Group of Members, or that the Group of Social Democrats has re tabled some amendments because we believe that the law, although partially addressing some social difficulties, needs to be rectified because there are some cases where the purpose of the compensatory schemes itself, if not implemented in an appropriate manner, is also simply falling apart or falling apart. Finally, I think it is important that by this law we also allow that group of people who are most at risk in our country, that is about 170,000 people in Slovenia, not to pay a premium for supplementary health insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Let me explain that the procedure for the adoption of the law is inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure. That's not true. The proposal made by the Government is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I have no right to reject a proposal which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. To complement and amend, however, you have MPs with amendments. Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u8	I am protesting on a case-by-case basis because you have now violated the rules of procedure, because no one has the right to comment on what has been said in the debates or explanations of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u9	Mrs. Pechanova, I'm in charge of the session. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Welcome to the President of the National Assembly, the Minister and all other fellow Members and all those who accompany us through the media. Health is our greatest wealth, and we usually begin to appreciate it when we lose it. Basic health care is provided through a public compulsory insurance scheme, i.e. through a health insurance institution. Complementary insurance, which is what we are dealing with today, is also provided through private funds, through premiums paid to insurance companies, for supplementary health insurance. Solidarity in health insurance and equality of people in rights and in the treatment of health activities is certainly the basis pursued by health insurance and health systems in Europe. However, in addition to the principle of solidarity, it is necessary to introduce reciprocity, which comes mainly from a voluntary decision, but not only from obligations. In the case of New Slovenia, we advocate the need to adopt equalisation schemes as soon as possible to cover differences in risks arising from differences in age from differences due to morbidity. Therefore, in this segment, we welcome the decision of the Government because this proposal has cut across the situation of the lack of consistency and ambiguity of regulation in this area in recent years. Thus, we have witnessed various information, which is added to one or another insurance company with our premiums, and thus have lost confidence in the insurance system precisely because of the supposition and unspecified legal definition, and above all the arrangements have not been in favour of protecting the interests of us insurers. In view of the complex situation in New Slovenia, we estimate that the law is a good compromise between the public interest pursued by the State and the interests of insurance and insurance undertakings, which we have a contractual relationship with insurance companies - so it is a certain entry of public interest into the private sphere. The principle of equal obligations and rights in the area of supplementary insurance for all insurers, regardless of age, sex, health status for the whole country, is absolutely essential for the law, and this will, in the new law. In doing so, it should not be important for the insurance undertaking to have a supplementary insurance contract. We support provisions which will provide that the amount of premiums is at a certain point equal to that of a minimum of one year; that after that time it is also possible to cancel the contract with a notice period; that no mathematical reservation or age provision is made; and that no tax on the turnover of insurance is paid for supplementary insurance. Appropriately, however, the proposed law with the amendments adopted, on the Committee, also regulates existing relations. So these relations in which we perform today under existing legislation. Insurance undertakings are obliged to notify insurance undertakings and insurers in writing of the changes made by law and to offer a fair adjustment to the contractual relationship. The notification should include, inter alia, new insurance conditions, a possible way to pay the premium, the duration of the insurance contract, the right to cancel the contract, the time limits for accepting or rejecting the offer and many other information. And that will, of course, be the time for us, insurers or insurers. We will have to decide whether we accept new conditions or are staying with our insurance company or changing it. In Nova Slovenija we are aware that citizens here, so we do not have much experience in our country, but time always brings new and new challenges, both for the country, for insurance and insurance companies. Above all, it seems necessary for us not to be more afraid in this transitional time to ask ourselves more fully what the article in the contract means, what will be the premium. However, if we do not want to deal with this and do not lose insurance, the contracts will remain valid under new conditions. It's probably the worst choice if we don't protect young people. We young people never know where something can get us. The draft law also provides for the way in which reservations are returned in the transitional and final provisions. In New Slovenia, we believe that this law is an expression and a step towards establishing a longer-term more stable system, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome everyone. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we accept the fact that from the long-term macroeconomic origins of the country in connection [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] in treatment including increasingly better and more expensive medicines, the whole healthcare system will not be financed solely by public means. It is necessary to seek the most appropriate ways to raise additional resources to preserve the scope of the rights and services established in healthcare under the existing law. Additional collection of funds or financing of the non-public money system on the basis of reciprocity, as provided by the legislative proposal of this law, is supported and accepted in the parliamentary group as the most appropriate way to give it an adjustment of the public interest and, on this basis, to limit the over-capital appetites of private insurance companies that will carry out voluntary health insurance and, in the first place, supplementary health insurance. The proposal of the law places the interest of the insurer at the forefront, but, as a matter of urgency and stability of the supplementary health insurance system, it also gives insurance undertakings the opportunity to establish a genuine mutual interest between the two Parties. The fact is that, initially, due to the urgent search for additional necessary health care facilities in the past, the patronage of the Health Care Institute of the Republic of Slovenia has been established as a mutual insurance company for the implementation of supplementary health insurance with excessive monopolity, which has not affected the development of sound market logic of competition and thus the reduction of the costs of this system and the establishment of a genuine partnership between the insurance undertaking and the insurer. In addition, it must be recognised that insurance undertakings that carry out voluntary health insurance have operated or operated in fairly unspecified and most frequently interpreted rules, in particular with regard to the obligations of age provision. One of the key weaknesses or imperfections in the system so far is the structural state or structure of the portfolio after the age of the insured in a particular insurance undertaking. This therefore affects the inability of all insurers to pay at least approximately the same high premium regardless of their risk and that individual insurance undertakings, based on their founding situation, would be lost and others would operate with excessive profits. This situation is certainly not in the public interest and the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports a key change in the proposal for this Act, which is the establishment of compensatory schemes. With the proposal of the law, thank God for the principle of reciprocity and the principle of the operation of supplementary health insurance of a meaningless reservation for age as a mathematical reservation. A level playing field on the supplementary health insurance market is established for all insurance undertakings and thus establishes a healthy market competition, which will ultimately benefit the insurer in particular. Insurance companies will be allowed to charge the same premium for all insurers in the case of supplementary health insurance, with the exception of charges for later entry into insurance, which is the only correct principle of reciprocity. The bill proposal and, in particular, the amended proposal now incorporates mechanisms to prevent mutual speculation, both on the part of insurance companies and insurers. Separate management of revenues from costs in the supplementary health insurance segment will make the system much more transparent as regards transparency and supervision in terms of public interest. In terms of public interest, it is also important that the State has greater influence in controlling the functioning of the system and insurance companies. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are also inclined to include in the proposal a more reasonable transitional period, both on the issue of exposing the compensation system and on the issue of the reimbursement of the provisions, because we cannot go beyond the facts and consequences of the current or better said situation, so a harsh approach by the legislator in our firm belief would have previously been detrimental to the fact that the system would have been practically revived and developed in a sustainable and stable way of raising additional funds. It is certain, however, that after a certain period of implementation of this Act, when its individual provisions are tested in practice and the necessary standards are established for the capture of key balancing data, they will be carried out in good stability and as much as possible the fairness of the supplementary health insurance system of the individual correction. I would like to point out, however, that we are now discussing a complementary proposal for a law that, in the case of the transposing of amendments to the draft law, an error has been made at Article 8 in Article 62, which needs to be corrected. With the amendment - there 2% - we fixed it to 1% and half, and the report contains 1%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and welcome everyone together! The Health and Health Insurance Act is necessary. There is a need to change a lot of things, and this law also changes a lot. Surely there is something good about marriage, but we are the opposition party, and we will not talk about what is good, but we will whip what is bad. We believe that competition must be, but competition must be based on reciprocity and not on the principle of profitability. In fact, the patient is the same treatment of any patient, regardless of where it comes from, as well as the Hippocratic oath. We cannot therefore agree to make such differences in insurance. About a month ago, we adopted a new law on taxation from the transport of secured transactions. And in the Slovenian National Party, it seems to us that this law was a precursor to the new law, which we are considering today, so that we will, of course, harm the insured for about one billion tolars, which will run into the state budget. Or not. After all, sometimes when reading this law, we feel that the purpose of the law is to destroy Slovenian insurance companies. The Minister made some statements in public that he intends to bring to the Slovenian market foreign insurance companies, that is to say to put Slovenian insurance in the hands of foreigners. We need to know that abroad, in so-called democratic Europe, that I do not speak elsewhere in the world, insurance companies hold at least 80% of their own. That's what you call owning your own nation, your own country. Insurance is a big business, even bigger than banking, so we must not leave it to the free market, and we must not be subjected to the various odd groups that have actually written this law to the Minister. It is important to be aware that, despite the Minister's saying that the law was drafted by Mr Franz Kosher, there is a great independent expert whom we know as the former Director General of the Health Care Institute, who at the time led this institution to losses. This man is declared to be the creator of the law, and behind him is someone who really wrote the law, this is Mr Ivan Gracar, member of the board of the Triglav Health Insurance Board. This is an insurance company which is actually the ex-Triglav ex-exposition where Mrs Klemenčičeva did what she wanted, and I think that she is here in the back. After all, it's an insurance company that has reached this insurance segment in a very strange way, which has only about 7,000, a little less. In addition, around 7,000 insured persons have about 4 billion Slovenian tolls of losses. These people are behind this law in order to gain their place in this law and in the first place in order to cover their losses. Of course, the same gentlemen also wrote amendments to the Slovenian People's Party in order to cover up the background of everything together and then the Human Party, as one propulsive, smart party, would put in more or less cosmetic amendments to the law. I think there will be a lot of debate and reflection on each individual amendment. We've put in quite a few. And I have to say, I've sat with people from the Mutual and with people from Triglav. But not only with them and, above all, I have been able to learn about the backgrounds of these and those gentlemen and this and that operation. After all, it is interesting that Minister Koshir takes as I don't know what advisor he is, and I don't know - if I'm not mistaken, he pays him through Noema Cooperating. It is interesting that this company has three employees, the company has already paid more than half a billion tolls to this small company and that this small company is very connected to the health insurance office, because the daughter of one of the owners of this company is the head of public procurement in the information agency ZZZV. And what a piece has done, which some so wash and clean in this matter - nothing and its commission. In short, irregularities are quite something, mistakes are quite something, and I think it will make sense to review and listen to every amendment and just confirm them to those who are good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u16	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group will only support the law in order not to selectively increase premiums for the elderly and the sick. We will also support this law because we are confident that it will only apply for a short period of time. Such voluntary insurance, as we have it, is unacceptable in the long term, because it no longer has solidarity as things are going on and so does reciprocity. Solidarity has fallen with the same premium, with substantial differences in income to the detriment of the poor, and reciprocity has been reduced with equal rights at unequal premiums. We currently have at least four categories of insurers: those with group discounts, those with no discounts, those with age reservations and younger insurers with even greater discounts, reciprocity with the same premiums and equal rights, and nothing else. The main problem with existing voluntary insurance is also that it has become mandatory for all who have a healthy mind, since it covers so many urgent rights that only a few can pay directly if necessary. It follows from the above that the indispensable rights must be returned to the compulsory part and that there instead of a single premium, the increased costs should be covered by a proportional contribution from the net remuneration of all insurers, which makes it an unjustified problem which is not actually there. The percentage would be lower than the average percentage represented by today's premiums on voluntary health insurance, moving from 0.3% to the richest, is also said to be for insurance directors and up to 12% for the poorest, or those with the lowest benefits, which is, of course, unacceptable in the long term, unfair, unfair and ethically and morally controversial. In the long term, voluntary insurance should be limited to the content that is otherwise necessary. For example, in the hospital, cosmetic surgery, medicines on the negative list, emergency medical treatment, travel costs and the like. The expectation that more insurance companies or greater competition in this area could solve the problem of the existing content of voluntary insurance is completely wrong, as more money would be burned for the same thing in several insurance companies in the unreasonablely high wages of insurers, namely for health insurance, which should not include profits or high costs or high wages. We will insist on agreeing that such voluntary insurance be lifted and placed on a new one. For this short transitional period, we will support the law by trying to mitigate the damage that has already occurred, and if we do not accept it, it would be even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr Franc Jazbec will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, which, due to its impact on the realization of health care and on the social security of the entire population, defines supplementary insurance as the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter in the area of supplementary insurance is implemented in such a way that, in order to protect the interests of insured persons, the State with the amendment of the Health Insurance Act ensures equal treatment of insured persons regardless of age and health status. The proposed novel will achieve greater security for insured persons, preventing their negative selection on the basis of age, sex or illness by insurance undertakings and ensuring a level playing field for the conclusion of insurance for all insurers. In accordance with that amendment, the Act defines the obligation for insurance undertakings to form the same premiums for all their insurers, to be admitted to insurance and not to impose any prior conditions on them, and encourages taxpayers to enter into supplementary insurance early. The public interest will also be exercised through a compensatory supplementary insurance scheme and specific provisions requiring insurance undertakings to manage the income and expenditure separately from the supplementary insurance, a separate profit and loss statement and the use of supplementary insurance funds solely for the purposes of carrying out that insurance. The novelty of the Health Insurance Act also introduces compensation for differences in the amount of damage between insurance undertakings which would result from differences in the structure and their insurance persons by age and sex. Without this adjustment, insurance companies would have a higher share of the younger population of insured persons and insured persons with lower premiums or would generate additional profits, while insurance companies with a higher percentage of older insured persons would have lower operating conditions and consequently higher premiums. This will be done by introducing a compensatory supplementary insurance scheme that will prevent the negative consequences of conscious or accidental selection or grouping of insurance persons in individual insurance undertakings. The law also deals with the possibility of cancellation of a voluntary health insurance contract by an insurance undertaking as well as by an insurance undertaking, since it is also a further contribution to the protection of insured persons. It also provides for the time-limits and procedures for the transition from so far to the new supplementary insurance arrangement and deadlines for the introduction of the compensatory supplementary insurance scheme. In order to protect supplementary health protections, as defined by EU directives, and to protect the interests of the State of insurers or insurers and insurance undertakings, the proposal for the amendment of the Health Insurance Act is tabled on an urgent basis. In the SDS Group, we will fully support the proposed amendment of the law along with the amendments adopted by the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that the law itself complies with the fundamental principle of protection of the interests of insured, consumers, citizens. The law must be designed to protect their interests and we estimate that it is a whole series of good solutions. The law brings a renewed system, a complementary system of supplementary health insurance. The essential solution is, of course, as has been said here several times already, the introduction of compensatory schemes that enable all those who want to compete in the complementary health services market, all insurance companies, to have the same position, regardless of the age structure of the insured. Without the introduction of compensatory schemes, older people in this country would be in a significantly worse situation, as they should pay substantially higher amounts for supplementary health insurance than younger generations. We know that it is unfortunate that the costs of health services also increase with age and that by introducing compensatory schemes we have made possible a fair system based on intergenerational solidarity, a system that also allows older people in our country a safe age. The law also brings greater competitiveness to the supplementary health insurance market, and, of course, it also provides a solution in the form of payment of old-age bookings. The introduction of age-reservation compensatory schemes is no longer necessary and must be decommissioned and paid to those who have also created them. These are insurers, citizens and citizens, and we believe that the solution in this area is appropriate. I would, of course, like to point out that it does not make sense to us, and that is why we have also supported the amendment so that these payments do not pay taxes on the transport of insurance. I think this is completely pointless, and in this sense I must say that we are somehow surprised at the government's position that it has not supported this. We think it would be right for insurance companies to be paid in full what they themselves have created, but not to be paid this amount now because of the changed model, but at the same time burdened with all taxes. That's incorrect. And here I would like, of course, a different view of the government. As far as the general principles are concerned, I would say that it was obvious in the debate that compliance with the social partners was minimal, of course, I could say that at some level that allowed the consideration of the law, it could of course have been significantly deeper. We had a whole series of amendments on the table yesterday. It appeared that a number of editorial corrections, including a series of editorial corrections, had been required, and three substantive supplements had also been adopted, which had been tabled by the coalition itself. The whole series of editorial and other corrections in some way arouses fear that all solutions are truly the most appropriate and thoughtful. Of course, I must say that practice will show how the system needs to be further complemented, and, of course, I would like to see these additions, which will also benefit the insurers. I would also like to point out that we consider this law to be only one step in the context of the comprehensive health reform that Slovenia needs. It should be noted that the number of older people is increasing, the proportion of people over 65 years of age is increasing. Therefore, consideration should also be given to how to provide more money in health care, how to ensure that patients' rights are adequately protected. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have already sent the Law on the Rights of Patients to the Ministry of Health, FIDES, consumer organisations, because we believe that the really important issues are those who are interested in waiting periods, what is the quality of services, which is last but not least, and this is important, the availability of health services. We therefore consider that this law is one of the steps that will be needed. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, or we are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. Amendments to the third Article of the supplementary proposal are just being shared. We have three amendments to Article 3 of the Social Democrats. These amendments are just being divided into benches. Do you want us to wait a few minutes before they're split? Then I interrupt the session and we'll continue at 11. I'll be back at 11:00 in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u22	Dear Members, we are continuing our second reading of the law by making amendments to Article 3. You have received two amendments to Article 3, both of which are proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Let me remind you that the third proposal of the Social Democrats is not to Article 3, but it is mistakenly written to Article 3, it is to Article 4, this is to Article 62. This is why we will discuss this third amendment of the Social Democrats under Article 4. So I am putting two amendments of the Social Democrats to Article 3 to the debate, point 4 and point 7 of Article. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor. Mr. Zampernik, let's shut it down. Here you go, Mrs. Pechanova. It's still not on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to say why we have re- tabled Article 3, paragraph 4, of the amendment. The point is that yesterday the amendment of the four groups of Members was adopted on the Committee, where the text was deleted, to be considered as the basis of the statutory capital gains - I will say as is usually heard as is usually said - and that is not specified in the law, it is said that this text does not make sense in this article. This is why, of course, then, companies dealing with voluntary supplementary insurance are given the opportunity to spend virtually all their profits for their own - I will say that they have free access to it or half of all their profits but not half the rest of the profits or, I will say, half the profits that would somehow represent extra-profit, which is much more than the basic text. This is why we propose that because mutual insurance companies are non-profit companies, because they own members of these mutual insurance companies, it is logical that it is not an interest to share profits in any way, but to invest the entire profit in mutual insurance transactions. Therefore, it would make sense to simply establish by law that the entire profit is invested back in mutual insurance or supplementary health insurance. We therefore propose that the words "half of this outcome" be replaced by the words "the whole outcome". The second amendment, however, refers again to the text that was corrected yesterday by the fact that the commission, because we cannot say otherwise for the issuing of invoices, I reiterate: the impossible, the inanimate and, in my opinion, the illegal move you are squeezing in the law, we propose that it be simply deleted, that this compensation for the delivery of data which are in fact purely ordinary invoices does not allow to be charged and, of course, it is necessary to write in Article 7, paragraph 3, to "provide without compensation". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 3? No, no, no. Then, I conclude the debate on the amendments and on Article 3. We are moving from this to Article 4 and on the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 4, which is to Article 62a, where amendments to the text are proposed. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all, thank you for the supplement; this is Article 4. While we have been preparing the amendments, the Committee's debate has led to an amendment to the articles and it should therefore be counted that this is Article 4 and I would suggest that the introductory sentence should also be amended to read as follows: "62.a. is thus supplemented by the following text." In the sense of the text, which is now in Article 62a, we would not have deleted it, but would have completed it. Now let me tell you the contents. See, there have been many debates about whether additional health insurance is still solidarity and reciprocity or not. And we argue that solidarity is that solidarity is no longer, to any extent, if they have to pay the same percentage of contributions to the practically essential supplementary health insurance of a person with extremely low and very high incomes. I agree with the debate that colleague Žnidaršič had on behalf of the parliamentary group when he pointed out that the burden on an individual is, if about 5,000 tolars per month, in terms of salary ranges of 0.3 to 12%. I just took the case. If we take the minimum wage as a starting point, which is approximately. $80,000, the minimum wage would be 6% and the payload would be 500 thousand, and only 1%. Therefore, it seems urgent and right in amending and supplementing this law to think that this great injustice is being removed. We will be given a high level of burden on low incomes - but as a criterion we are taking a minimum wage, the amount of pension that is below this minimum wage and similar cases - in short, for people who will have under 80,000 incomes, it will be possible for us to have as much as a service as possible to say which supplementary health insurance is provided, and they will not be able to do so because no one will pay for them, and they will not be able to pay for it themselves. That is why I am counting on you, regardless of the fact that the government claims that this is only a temporary solution, and that there will be a re-thinking in a short time, perhaps even a combination of complementary and compulsory insurance, only until then will some water pass. And I think it would be an opportunity for us to sort this out now. You're gonna ask me where it came from? It says so! Yes, indeed, from the state budget. If you ask me, how much? If our calculation we have is about 170,000 insured people who would be forgiven, times 50,000 a year, it's about. 8.5 billion a year, but for this year, when the law only enters into force on September 1st, this obligation would be about cca. 2.8 billion and nothing more. 2.8 billion, ladies and gentlemen, is about 20% of what we set up at the previous government meeting on a proposal for pensioners. That's where we accepted this year's commitment. 12 and a few billion, it is said, maybe a fifth of this would be given here for the most endangered in the field of health. However, health is likely to know what good it is and what it means to a brother - in - law. We do not want to say that this is not an amendment to reflection or that it does not have its weight in terms of material burdens. However, I think that the material burdens in this case are disproportionate to the urgency that we have for regulating the health care of the widest range of citizens and citizens. And one more thing. However, we propose and hope that it will still be accepted that no refund tax is paid on the basis of old age insurance. However, if the government does not do so, there is an additional billion and once again half of this obligation would be saved, saved and saved for a new budget, because this is an additional right that the added value tax budget will receive. He'll get about a billion and a half there, and something would go down in this account. And the whole new budget commitment on the basis of our proposal might be half a billion dollars for this year. If this is about the health of 170 000 citizens and citizens, then I think that this is the money that the government would have, regardless of the differences between the opinion of the Minister of Health and Finance, should give and expect colleagues and fellow Members to support such a proposal from our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Run. Once again, as I understand Mr Potrč, this is an amendment to Article 4, which reads as follows: "Text 62.a. the article shall be supplemented by the following new paragraphs." And these are paragraphs 5, not 1, 2, but 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. The last sentence of the amendment is deleted because it is irrelevant. The last sentence, which reads: "The amended article proposed is 42.a. Article" and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u27	Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u28	Please. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u29	Thank you very much. So I didn't mean to sound, but because, I think, it's a direct television broadcast and because my colleague Potrč here probably said it that way, but that's why there's something to be said about it. For he says that this amendment is written for the most endangered in the field of health. In fact, I would like to remind you that we have been waiting four years for a law on compensatory schemes. That for four years the previous ruling coalition of such a law, which would actually constitute intergenerational solidarity in the field of health, as regards compensatory schemes, did not have it and that the previous coalition had not adopted it in four years. Today, with such an amendment as the fellow Members of the Social Democratic Party are proposing, you are somehow trying - at least I understand so - this law, which we are adopting in an urgent way, because it is absolutely necessary because it is necessary to arrange this as soon as possible, you are trying to put the matter on the table with this amendment. What you wrote can be very attractive and can, of course, be sold as an acquisition for these categories that receive, I don't know, a minimum wage that receives a security allowance and so on, but legally - and I'm sure this is not part of this law. If this is accepted, then a set of other laws should be regulated accordingly, so that they do not conflict with one another, so that the laws do not conflict with another. For we already know, as far as the laws of war victims and then the laws are concerned, that supplementary insurance is already being paid to many, and it is also stated who is then paying you. You're saying that this is supposed to be a state budget and you're saying that this is 2.8 billion and that this is half of the amount that we adopted when we changed the law on pension and disability insurance. If we were to discuss it this way, I could say that this is only 10% of the amount that your ruling coalition has committed to buying the plane and so on. So don't make these comparisons. Let's stay realistic and tell you who then - I agree with this, but then who will ensure this failure, because we are writing this insurance law, is saying what we will do if such an amendment as you propose is accepted. As far as the tax law is concerned, when many issues are raised and many issues are raised in this regard are being raised, it must be said once again that the existing tax legislation has been adopted by vote by the previous ruling coalition and that a change to this tax legislation is being prepared. The promise is that by the end of the year this change will also be made to the National Assembly. As long as the marriage is as valid, it must be respected. And actually, Comrade Potts, you should know that, not that you're trying to sell us some demagogies here, that the government should arrange it differently and not respect the law. That is, as long as such a law applies in the field of taxes, because you have accepted it - whether it is an allowance for large families or a premium tax and so on. I do not say that in New Slovenia we do not agree with this that some things change in this area. And we will also, when the law is introduced into the National Assembly, propose that changes take place in these areas, but until the law is amended, it must be respected as such. Everything else is in some way misleading the public and demanding something that you yourself haven't done in four years, as I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u31	I'd like to say that some people don't understand what this is about. Since the text contains 70,000 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, there is a large majority of pensioners and we know what the structure of pensions is in Slovenia - and the pensioners would be among those who would be exempt from or would pay state insurance instead. Secondly, it should also be noted that, as long as you accept the amendment that we have tabled to Article 3 concerning the reinvestment in supplementary health insurance of all the potential profits of these insurance undertakings, the source here is already the source by which insurance companies can cover the loss of income on the basis of the exemption from payment of the premium to the socially weaker part of the population. The fact is, and we have concrete evidence in statistics that the health risks of low-income people are much greater, regardless of age group, than those of higher-income people. We are just comparing what life is like in Prekmurje, where we know that there are more low-income people than, say, in central Slovenia or in western Slovenia, where the population is better in wealth or income. So, here we have to think - not as some speak demogosically, but we need to think in such a way as to make access to health services accessible to all, but not only to those who have money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We are really talking about this amendment about the socially disadvantaged, i.e. those who would pay so much more for supplementary health insurance premiums and the proposal that this premium should be otherwise arranged for them and that these premiums should not be paid. When we received a proposal from the Health Care and Health Insurance Act in those drafts, in a basic form, the government has already decided to assign to certain people, i.e. those persons who are particularly at risk, the supplementary insurance scheme will be included in the mandatory insurance framework. Somehow, the process of adoption and modification, by which we will adopt amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act, is now in the final stage, has resulted in the adoption of compensatory schemes following an urgent procedure. So, just one set from that whole thing that we have to complete and change in the fall. So, from this point of view, I believe that we will not do anything unjust and no harm or malice, because we will not support this amendment at this time. This will be the subject of a debate when we carry out it with the following amendments and amendments to the law, and it is probably already known to the public, as well as to us Members, that the government itself and the coalition have decided on such an approach, so that at this point this amendment seems to me to be somewhat premature, given the process itself and the objective that we are pursuing with these amendments, namely, in particular with regard to compensatory schemes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I would not want this amendment without having to politicise it in the way that Mr Sok began. Don't tell us to be malicious and demagogic, Mr. Sok. We can't even tell you that we haven't done anything in power in four years. We have not done much, but it will be necessary to get used to the fact that you are in power since October and that there will be more and more times when it will be necessary to determine what has been done, what has not been done. The amendment is well-intentioned whether it is real or not, you will assess and you will tell. Whether it is just a few more months, a year or two to wait in the old system and leave a significant proportion of people who, with low incomes, devote a large proportion of their income to their own health or it would be better to include these people in supplementary insurance without contributions and to pay the budget for them - this is worth considering. We gave that idea. The idea is clear and feasible. The budget would be the one who would pay the premiums for these people who would also be legally insured. In short, mutual and insurance companies, which are shareholders, would not be burdened or limited in any way. They'd get all the insurance, including these 170,000 people, and not every single individual would pay for it. That's the only difference. Each individual would be insured with this second third insurance company if he felt that the conditions under which he was insured could be more favourable to him than would be the case for all others who would pay the insurance premium themselves. And I have said how much we estimate that these would be the funds that the country should have in this year, but certainly more in the next year, because this year applies only for four months of this year, then in the next year, it would be settled. And I gave one example this year, from a month ago -- what's been going on for the last 50 years, Mr Sok, to draw numbers anyway -- but in the last month this government is and we voted in favour. Don't tell us you don't. And this time, too, we will vote in favour with or without this amendment. Don't tell us to block the adoption of the law. That's not true. We didn't say that, and we don't. We also voted in favour of the pension law because we believe that it is right for any category to grant more rights. Only if you assessed the coalition a month ago that it is right, necessary, necessary from the budget for this year approx. 12 or 14 billion funding to address the problem of reconciliation of pensions, a higher amount of one-off compensation, or a previous recreational allowance, etc. Okay! We're just saying, let's compare this decision to what would cost a dozen of these assets, and you might decide. If you don't, we won't see anything, just don't tell us something that's unrealistic or demagogic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Run. Replico, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u37	Thank you very much. So esteemed colleague Potsch, yes, of course I understand that the opposition speaks that way. This is normal, but it is difficult to accept the fact that another year has not passed, that you had authority and that you did not actually do what you promised in the area of balancing insurance schemes. You just didn't. I can't say otherwise, today, when we are dealing with this area in an emergency session, you came up with these ideas when you say that you are concerned about certain categories of residents, and in the same sentence you say that the law amending the law on pension and disability insurance has brought so much and so much burden for the country. Yes, but if we spend more on pensions than 6 billion this year after this law, the pensioners will receive that money. And in the same sentence, you're problematic and then you're aiming at another area, where there's something else that needs to be provided. Take it slowly, step by step, and we will approach it and do not try to create an opinion that the current ruling coalition of the population category, which receive extremely little or through pensions or wages, does not concern us. Of course we are, but at this point, the possibilities are what they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Potts, can I put you on the list of discussers, because the replica on the replica is not allowed. Yeah, okay. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u39	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister, dearly greeted colleagues and colleagues as well! So if we're talking about Article 3, it's pure guillotine for the law itself. I would like to say the same thing as I have already said on the parental committee, which was run so, according to home, that there are actually no grounds for paying the compensation. It's just like if I went to the market and bought some goods at the size of x tolars and wanted to have an account, I'd say to the cashier, "You know, for this account you'll pay so much and so much if you want to have one." It's all nonsense, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, what I would like to say is that these additional costs at an approximate level, as fully foreseen by the law and the original, should be borne by the insurer or the insurer. That's a billion tolars! A billion tolars! They'd turn a billion of me into insurance and insurance! Of course, this would increase the premium and would also make the service more expensive in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u40	Mr. Friend, we are talking about the amendment to Article 4. There was a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u41	So we support this proposal made by social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The Health and Insurance Act sets out the scope of the rights and services that go to compulsory insurance insurers. In order to amend this law with this proposal, as we now have here, we are interfering with the whole law only in the area of supplementary health insurance. I understand or also accept the proposers of this amendment, but I firmly believe that in the concept of law, as the whole law is built, this is not the case. We, as is already the case in the back of the proposal for major amendments to the Health and Insurance Act, in other chapters must allow special categories that are income-stricken, that the institution is covering or, if the institution is burdened in this segment, that this is covered by the state budget, the whole of all rights. And if we hide there certain categories of total rights, there is no need for supplementary insurance for these categories and for these insurance companies of a weaker class. I am in favour of solving this issue, but entirely in the second segment of the umbrella law on healthcare and insurance. By no means does this systematically, conceptually, judge, but at least in Article 4 of this Act, which opens Article 62a, which merely regulates, provides for voluntary supplementary insurance or specific supplementary health insurance. I support the purpose, but I think we need to put it into a completely different part of even the umbrella health and insurance law, as was already included in the proposal that the Ministry had previously had in some public hearing or coordination with the social partners. But then this moved on to a later date, I think, due to too much material, so that we can reconcile it quickly enough with the social partners. However, this had to be considered as a priority, so this segment or this part of the law went forward. However, I think that this will have to be resolved elsewhere, and certainly the Minister can also make an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Only a few clarifications have been made by the leaders of the groups of Members and Mr President know that I explicitly supported the urgent procedure of this law in college and I do not feel, I would say, bad news whether we wish to have this law or not. Everything else is pure insinuations and lies, and I just want to say, documentation for this exists. This law needs to be adopted, a little better, a little worse, it needs to be adopted. We want to improve it as much as possible and as much in our minds. Secondly, I'm sorry we didn't manage everything in the previous term. I'm sorry. But the previous mandate we spoke about a time proposal for a comprehensive health reform. You know that an integral part of the overall health reform was also the exemption from payments - the merger of compulsory and supplementary insurance and the exemption of part of the contributions of certain categories. We stood up for this, and in the end, we did not make it. I would like the new government to succeed, and our proposal is only to help it succeed as soon as possible. Whether it is systemicly ideal or not, I allow the possibility that it is not ideal. But I'm sure it's possible and it could be arranged this way. It's about being rude to the marriage and to the pensioners. No, we didn't say a word to anyone, but we said it would also help solve the lowest categories. And if you want to know the numbers, by coordinating the pensioners that you accepted -- or we accepted them, because we were "yes", after the previous marriage, you would get a pensioner with a pension of 80,000 tolars, according to your calculations of one percent, that's 800 tolars. If we accepted this solution, which is our proposal, it would be burdened by 5,000 tolars. These are just numbers that are rough, but they are, so it seems to us that in this case they would do a lot for all of these lowest categories: employees, pensioners, those with protective supplements and so on. Find a clever argument against him, not say that because we proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u47	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Talking about what's not is beating the crap out of straw, so I think I need to talk about what it is. This is a proposal for amendments and a complement to the law before us. The applicants stated in Article 3 that supplementary insurance is in the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia and that, together with compulsory health insurance, this supplementary insurance constitutes part of the social security of insured persons. Indeed, it would be of good taste to the Social Democrats that social rights and health insurance rights, which should also affect the most vulnerable groups of the population to the same extent as everyone else, that we have never taken up this before, would be beyond the measure of good taste. Therefore, it seems to me that the proposal has been added to Article 4, which refers to which categories of the population are to be exempt from the payment of this premium, to be considered reasonably and reasonably accepted also because it is those categories of employed persons who do not receive such incomes up to the minimum wage because they are unemployed, because it is not just pensioners, because it is also for other recipients of permanent or occasional cash assistance, farmers and self-employed persons and also for the homeless to be able to carry out what is also recorded under the Social Charter. In order to ensure that health services are accessible to all residents. And that's why it makes sense for me to support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u49	Thank you very much, President. First, let me ask you a question, not for ignorance, but I'm a little confused. We are talking about Article 3 or 4 and the amendments to this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u50	Article 62a.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u51	So to Article 3 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u52	No, this is a copy of the report, Article 4, Article 3, Article 4 - the text of Article 62a shall be completed at the time of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u53	Good. We are talking about supplementary insurance. Thank you very much. Not to disturb this esteemed national assembly with too many words. Look, just before, our party champion made it clear and loud, yes, competition is healthy, so we support the law. But competition based on the principles of reciprocity, linked to Article 3. By the principle of reciprocity, not by the principle of profitability. That is why I absolutely support, and I will now say, the amendment to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Health Care to Article 3 with the signed Mr. Mirano Impres because it says: "Insurances that create profits or positive results from the operation of supplementary insurance must be fully committed to the implementation of the supplementary insurance." This is the principle of reciprocity, in my own and personal opinion, I apologize if I've skipped now. But we're talking about supplementary insurance, the means that come, let's go, which are created as profit, go to supplementary insurance. I support and I want to say this again, basically - seven or ten or fifteen insurance companies should be, but they should work on the principle of reciprocity, and no one, at all, will come from abroad without a desire for profitability. But we don't want that, that's only possible in American movies where people die in front of hospitals.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Does anyone else wish to discuss article 62a or the amendment to this article? Mr. Secretary's still on the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u55	I will be quite brief because, above all, Mrs Moica Kucler Dolinar, as well as Mr Brenčič, has already said the essence of the answer to this amendment. Above all, we have already foreseen in the Coalition Treaty such a way to solve the problems of these socially weaker ones, and we have already drawn up a law that will regulate, regulate or make practical arrangements, but then it has been found that this law, the second part of the law, is adopted on a regular basis, because it is more difficult and requires some of the other changes related to this change that we are now talking about. And in this second part of the amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, of course, this will also be taken into account, so that it will also be regulated in a specific way and without a budget. However, I must say that, of course, this year's budget rebalancing has already been made for this year, and I do not know where this money, this year, would be taken from, but in any way, we will arrange it in the second part of the law, which we will adopt following the regular procedure in autumn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u56	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u57	Just for a little while, I just want to warn you that we already have something like this. The compulsory health insurance for unemployed persons is paid by the municipalities. In particular, for our congregation, I can say that it costs us as much as a few ten million dollars a year! And I hope you don't intend to hang voluntary health insurance in that part of the law that talks about compulsory health insurance by chance to the municipalities because we're going to start a constitutional dispute. I would like to tell you that it is precisely in this context that the State, in this case also the municipality, has to provide public interest in the sense that it allows health care for all the population, because the damage caused by the fact that some people here and some people are very large - they do not have the opportunity to reach health care on a certain scale, thus making the health situation of the entire population worse. So we can't talk here about any demagogue moves, no speculation or anything, but we're talking about public benefit in particular. And this public benefit in this case, as you've heard, is worth 8 billion and a half. But you can find sources somewhere else. I said, let's say these insurance companies don't have the right to share their profits, but they have to invest it back in supplementary insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Secretary, would you like to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u59	Of course, I have to answer this question or this comment. In fact, we are not going to hang it for the municipalities, not to say anything, but actually we have a plan to get it within health insurance. After today's calculations it's about four and a half billion tolars for these groups, after some calculations you can - depending on the number, of course, even six, seven billion. In any case, this money will be provided from other funds. Even the opposite! What you are paying now, the municipalities, for social weaknesses, we want to transfer in the new legislation to the state budget in the coming year, no later than 2007, this is also provided for in this law, which we will adopt in autumn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u60	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate on the amendment to Article 62a. We move on to Article 8, which is the first amendment to Article 8 or Article 62d, which is on the page of the report on page 8. We have two amendments to the Social Democrats, namely Article 62d, Article 62e, Article 62e and the Amendment of the Slovenian National Party to the 62nd Article, drawing your attention to the editorial correction you have also received in this article. I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u61	Very briefly. In fact, it is the continuation of the amendment tabled in Article 3 concerning the complete termination of the invoice commission, which, of course, must be described in detail, for which the mutual insurance undertaking must pay the costs. This is how it's going to be deleted instead of 0.75% of the 'cosmata', as they call it here, the value of the payment to turn it into nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Anyone else would like to discuss these three amendments by 62.d, 62.e and 62.h.? Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, we have tabled an amendment to the proposal for an amendment to the Law on Health Insurance Amendments and Supplements, which refers to Article 62h, Article 8, which refers to the amount being transferred to the next quarter if there is no settlement period. We think it's right and fair, because if it doesn't, then it's only someone who's always going to profit from it, and others are going to pay the full price. In other words, the one who will have a larger risk group in his body of insurers will normally have to make this payment 100%, while others who will have a less risky group will be able to avoid this payment. That's why we think this amendment has been put in place and we'd also ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mrs. Kucler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I would limit myself to this part of the amendments by the Social Democrats when they propose a reduction of this percentage for the payment of data provision fees. I must say that a thorough debate has been held on the Committee around these percentages, and we have already assessed in some way that this percentage should be as close as possible to zero. We have also been in favour of this in our parliamentary group, co-signatures of the amendment, which has also been adopted by the committee, and this percentage, or percentage, has fallen from 1.5% to 0.75%. And here we must note that it is explicitly set here that the amount of these compensations be agreed upon by the insurance companies with health service providers in the form of a percentage of the amount of gross damages charged. But he can only know 0.75. Therefore, it will also depend on the agreement between health service providers and insurance services, which percentage will they achieve. Above all, I think that this percentage is acceptable - 0.75, as it will be if the law is passed, introduced as a maximum percentage, also acceptable in view of existing practice. As we have heard, insurance companies are paying for this moment somewhere between - depending on which contractor - 2 and 3%. So here we're limiting the upper limit to 0.75. I think it is necessary to stress this in particular that this is the maximum limit, as the law says that insurance companies agree with health service providers for the amount of compensation. And here I also estimate that this is a percentage that should not have a significant impact on the amount of premiums that insurance companies will design. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u67	I would like to say that this is about 500 million tolars when we're talking 0.75% or a billion, when we're talking about 1 and a half percent. So we're not talking about change. And I would also like to tell you this if it is not clear to you that, given that it is already a practice, not only to pay the commission, but mainly to pay for the purchase of software and hardware itself, that both the health insurance company and all three insurance companies dealing with voluntary health insurance are paying for the costs of a health card. This means that at least what you should have done when you tabled an amendment with which you have only reduced the commission, it should also be noted that insurance companies should not raise the price for these 0.75% because the current price already covers this cost. So now we're paying for this and then we're paying an extra 0.75%. When making amendments, think about the full consequences, but not always just a fraction of the consequences. I'd ask you so nicely to put the amendments into perspective. We have tabled an amendment that requires no commission to be paid because it is pointless because it is illegal and is also ridiculous. By reducing this commission, you only agree that operators can still blackmail with additional payments through their services.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Does anyone else want to discuss these three amendments to Article 8? No, no, no. Then, I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 8. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 13 and Article 13. The amendment was introduced by social democracy. Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u69	I'm going to repeat what I said yesterday, but I think that those of you who haven't been on the board are the right thing to read what it says in the first sentence of the third paragraph. If you don't mind, I can read it for you, so it'll be easier. It reads: "The composition and elect the meetings of representatives of the mutual insurance company, which carries out supplementary health insurance, shall reflect the composition of its supplementary insurance insurers in relation to the allocation to the age classes referred to in Article 62e, paragraph 7, of the Health and Health Insurance Act." What does that mean? This means that elections to the Assembly will have to be organised in such a way that voters on the electoral lists will be exposed to age groups 15 to 75 years, after 10 years of age, and that they will have to elect their representatives, who will have to be equally aged between 15 and 25, 25 and 35, etc. Flight. I don't think it makes sense for you to leave a marriage like this, I'm not going to use an overly harsh term, but a really stupid text. I must say, it seems impossible and I ask you kindly to look at the dignity of this council. If the government is already doing "stupid things," at least you don't have to do them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. So, to put it mildly, we can only smile at this text of the law. Imagine, fellow citizens and colleagues, that the National Assembly should be composed by age group, as we are trying to form a legal order for a community. I think that's totally unacceptable. It is also unacceptable to say, in essence, that this matter is coordinated with the social partners and, therefore, we are giving the unions the opportunity, which is perfectly correct, to participate in this assembly. On the other hand, we find that these are not all trade unions that are representative at the state level. And if there is any wisdom in this national assembly, of course, he will gladly and wisely deny what is written in the basis of the law. For it is impossible to carry out this, unless the government itself, by order, proposes a government order to be composed of the congregation. I don't think that's consistent with the constitutional constitution and it's not legal. So it's quite funny that this is written here and after ten years of difference to form a congregation that is essentially large - 33 representatives should have - I think it's a completely unreasonable, unreasonable and not a smart act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Then I conclude the debate and move on to the consideration of Article 19 or to the consideration of the two amendments to Article 19. One amendment was tabled by the Social Democrats' Group, which you have already received before, and now you have received the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 19. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that most of our amendments have dropped slightly on the committee of the parent working body, which was run very domestically, we are forced to advertise a little more often this time. Article 19 actually deals with the distribution of reservations, but it is necessary to say something that is very interesting. That segment of 150,000 people who paid a really lower insurance premium would today be entitled to pay back this money and one million people would be injured. And tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, who's going to explain to a million insurers why they didn't get their share. It's just not possible. There is no reason, unless the purpose of the law is to bring down one insurance undertaking operating on a system of reciprocity and actually cover the lowest social layers, so that other insurance companies can be placed in a space that we know that the insurance undertaking itself has a calculated profitability factor, and if we go from this point of view also to the consequences, it is certain that insurance premiums for our citizens and citizens will be significantly more expensive in the future and health benefits for the lower social strata will be inaccessible. And it's precisely because we're talking about such a criminal return on these reservations, which is very deceptive and very well heard for some, because some people would get 70,000 dollars that the country would like to tax a little bit more, by the way, and others that were in the Loan, somewhere 10,000 tolls in return, but we're talking about a total of 150 thousand people, while the remaining million would be discriminated against, which was significantly higher than they paid, says 200 tolars more per month, 3,800 is an insurance premium for those who paid the reservation, 4,000 and some for something that we haven't actually paid for, and by 2002 we were involved in this. This is a lapsus of the country when it comes to adopting legislation that we wish to correct unjustly again. In short. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this entails new injustices and that this is very unfair especially to the rest of the majority of the insured because it is also imposed below a new contract which would define a new contractual relationship and should be re-signed, even though only the contractual relationship is renewed. And for those of you who don't get anything - normal, big anger, we're not going to be with each other anymore, we're going to another insurance company. And if we take into account just the fact that insurance company Triglav wrote this law that we have before us, then it's an extra nonsense. Listen up! In some ways, the employer can apply to the country some factor of profitability in the contractual relationship - because this is a real case for a criminal service, not for a national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 19 or the two amendments to this article? Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u75	I would like to point out that, in the last paragraph of Article 19 of the Regulation, it is the duty of insurance undertakings to pay the tax on the turnover of insurance transactions under the law applicable until the adoption of the amendments to the law adopted at the last regular meeting. This means that insurers who will receive paid reservations for their age will have to pay 6 and a half percent of what they will get paid. I believe that this is unfair, and we believe that the country should not make the mistakes it has made when it adopted the law in 2000, the law on the need to make reservations for age as well, now it is decided that these reservations will no longer be made and must be paid to the insured. Now, all of a sudden, she's going to cash in or put in a pot: 6 1/2 percent, boys and girls, you're going to pay for what the insurance company is going to pay you. I think it's -- not to say, morally questionable: let's first get people to pay, then give them their money back, and then we'll cash in a little bit. If that's fair and fair, then you'll probably have to explain it to me further because I'm too stupid to understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Anyone else want to discuss these amendments? Then I conclude the debate and also conclude the debate on the whole law. The vote on the amendments will take place today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, it's an evocative bill on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars, D. D for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to 360 million euro. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I am not here to give the floor to the Minister, so I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Transport Committee, who considered the proposal to be the working body of the mother. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Today, at the urgent meeting of the Transport Committee, we discussed a proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to rent credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 360 million. In the introduction, the drafter stressed that, on the basis of the resolution on the national programme on the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, intensive construction of the highway network is taking place, which takes place in two legs from Maribor to Kopra and from Karavank to Obrežje, as well as at the connection of the highway to the VIP and Pomurski kark. This year, the bill will enable the construction of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads, which are evenly distributed throughout the country, and their construction is covered by the national annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for 2005. The Legislative and Legal Service has commented on the proposed law and the Committee has adopted the amendment to Articles 1 and 2 and 3. In the end, we took note of it unanimously. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] 133. Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has prepared a supplementary proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to rent credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 360 million, which is an integral part of this report. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Transport. New Slovenia supported the annual road development and renewal plan for 2005 at the 5th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in April. The discussions have shown that the involvement of the Slovenian motorway cross in the European motorway network for the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union countries is strategically linked. It is therefore important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also carefully examines financial resources for the implementation of the annual development plan and the restoration of motorways for 2005 or financial resources for the smooth implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. In our opinion, the adoption of a government proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to borrow credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 360 million, is necessary mainly for two reasons. First, due to the adopted rebalancing of the 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which reduces the allocation of motorways by EUR 8.5 billion, and secondly, to provide funds in a timely manner amounting to EUR 360 million, together with its own resources representing one third of the estimated investment value or EUR 179.3 million, and to allow public tendering on sections of the following motorways: Lendava-Pince, Nova Zrkovska cesta, Porta Koper, first phase, Koper-Isol, Vrba-Perčica, Lesnica-Kronovo and Hajdin-Ptuj. This year, it is necessary to rent loans or issue debt securities for an indicative of 11.4 billion tolar, i.e. for a good 13% of the total amount covered by the Act. The law requires the DARS to seek, with potential lenders or debt securities issuers, to achieve as low costs as possible and such a manual that will not burden its repayment capacity. The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group will support the proposed law with the desire that the construction of these phases be carried out in real terms and, of course, in good quality, by high European construction standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Franz Kangler will present his position to the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to borrow credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme of EUR 360 million. As we have already agreed at the last meeting of the National Assembly and supported the proposal of agreement to rent credit for certain sections in Slovenia, we believe in the Group of Members that it is essential that the motorway programme, as envisaged by the Act, is evenly built after Slovenia and thus frees up the possibility of the early integration of certain other sections into the motorway cross in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, this proposal of the consent law will allow the construction of the Lendava-Pince motorway on the pomurski kark, the Vrba-Perecica on the mountain leg, the Lesnica-Kronovo motorway on the lower leg, the Koper-Isol fast road and the first phase of the connecting road on the coastline and the Hajdin-Ptuj fast road on the Podravska kark and the Nova Zrkovska fast road on the Štajersko kark, which shows that the applicant in the programme of the motorway programme, together with the EUR 360 million leased loan, has been evenly distributed to all parts of Slovenia, indicating that the construction of the motorway programme continues intensively and thus allows the inclusion of some other road sections necessary for the transport of passengers and goods from the west, from the north to the south. The total investment value of these sections of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads amounts to EUR 539 million, for which own resources are sufficient, the earmarked resources are EUR 179 million and it is necessary to provide EUR 360 million of credit or to issue debt securities in total for that amount. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will be pleased to support the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to rent that loan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will confirm the proposal for a law. The undeniable fact is that Slovenia needs motorways. We need them as soon as possible and as best we can. After all, not as bad as the Croats, who do just to make it look, but as we build them with us, who are good. However, many things will have to be changed. We have a huge number of heavy trucks on the highways. The Slovenian national party has already proposed several times that these trucks should not be able to drive in the long and the long run, not only on motorways, but especially on state roads, because when most trucks avoid motorways, that they do not have to pay fees, they destroy roads around. So far, the country hasn't had a hearing to handle it. I hope that the current government will do something about this. In short, heavy goods should go to the railway and heavy trucks should be driven as in the European Union, on the railway, not to reach the Slovenian border, and then "smuggling" across the country, and in fact they do not pay anything. Therefore, it would also make sense to introduce here, just as the idea that all those who come from the Croatian borders against Slovenia should pay a certain fee at the border, depending on the car's Kubatura or the basic pressure. That's what the Italians did for the trucks on the border - and what happened, nothing. They were simple computers, ours were "a little jump," and then we had to make a deal. And within the European Union! And we don't hope to do that on the outside, because we're "fuck," I can't say anything else. I hope it changes now. If there have been 12 years of such government action, it is high time for us Slovenians to show once that we are here at home and that we will not swallow just every mess that comes across the Slovenian border. There's something else that matters. Once we have built this highway cross to the end, it is imperative that we approach the construction of the road link with Koroška immediately. Koroška is moving away from us and Koroška will connect to neighbouring Austria, unless we make this link between the Koro region and the Ljubljana centre. It's about time. Koroška's always been pushed away and pushed somewhere. I don't know why. Probably because they don't like the Koroshics, but they don't. I would say that some were very inclined to some other side than a woman, and then that's a logical consequence. It's about time this road was built. Here I would use this moment when I say that I would appeal both to the National Assembly and to the government, as well as to the relevant organisations, especially to the DARS, to start thinking about this and to start preparing documentation to link Arya to the village through Slovenj Gradac, Dravograd, Raven and then to link to the European Road Cross in Austria as soon as possible. I think Koroška deserves this, just like other parts of Slovenia. Therefore, we do not neglect certain parts of Slovenia and do so as soon as possible. I think that these debts will be paid off from tolls, so we also need those heavy trucks that are "blowing" across Slovenia along long and long lines and closing down local roads and state roads to get them on highways as soon as possible to pay the toll, if not the other way. And when they cross the Croatian-Slovenian border they should be "squeezed by the neck" and - ladies dear, if you want to ride on a beautiful Slovenia, pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u85	Thank you very much. This brief position of our Group will, in fact, apply to both points: to what we are talking about now, and also to the next, because it is the same thing. However, it is good to say that it is a matter of continuing the debate, which was not the agenda of the previous month, and it is probably precisely that we continue this debate on a case-by-case basis for asking questions on the parental committees which should already be clarified. It would be good if it were no longer repeated in pieces, that is, after individual works, but at the same time to get even a picture of what needs to be done during this period. We estimate that, although some questions and concerns have been raised about the adequacy of resources and the adequacy of resources on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, this proposal needs to be supported, particularly because there are no specific substantive concerns. We also consider that the resolution on the national programme, that the annual plans, that the studies that have been carried out and that it has ensured that the ministry will have to give consent after the individual parts of the loans, are of sufficient weight to enable us to believe in a well-prepared investment and that these roads will be built at the appropriate time. We doubt that it is right for those who want to frighten people by doing so to be burdened by individual Slovenes and Slovenes. We consider that this is actually more of a fear of people than a serious thought, because even if it were, it is necessary to know that no road is given and that it is necessary to raise funds for these roads. It is also not right, and this is the case if some try to mix tax obligations with toll payments and other payments, which have nothing to do with taxes and with the state budget. Because we believe that the material has been properly prepared by the government because we believe that the resources are sufficient, because we believe that the dynamics are also appropriate, we will support both the proposals of the law in the DeSUS Group of Members - what we are currently discussing and also what we will discuss in the next item of the agenda - we will support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to the Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia. With the approval of that law, the legal basis for the rental of credits and the issuance of debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 360 million will be met. The total investment value of the construction of highway sections Lendava-Pince, Nova Zrkovska cesta in Maribor, links to Luka Koper - the first phase, Koper-Isol, Vrba-Peračica, Lesnica-Kronovo and Hajdin-Ptuj is €539.29 million. Funds to finance these sections will be provided from their own resources of EUR 179.29 million and from the envisaged financial loans or through the issuance of debt securities of EUR 360 million. The aim of the proposed law is to allow for the timely provision of all necessary resources, which are a prerequisite for the submission of works and the start of the construction of the pre-mentioned motorway sections. The Act therefore provides the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to rent a total of EUR 360 million. As has already been said, we will vote in favour of the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Marinic. Mr Geza Juban will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will not oppose the adoption of both laws, i.e. laws, when it comes to consent and guarantees, which will enable the DARS to repay up to EUR 360 million in the form of borrowing loans or in the form of issuing debt securities to the financial structure of the seven motorway sections. At the same time, it does not seem appropriate for us to adopt both laws as a matter of urgency during parliamentary holidays at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It is also more than obvious that the amount of the debt is conditional on the rebalancing of the 2005 State budget, by which the coalition of funds allocated to the construction of the motorway by the previous government reduced by 8.5 billion tolars. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we regret that representatives of the government have not answered questions such as whether the new and new guarantees of the country are in line with the important objectives that this country has and, above all, the euro is taking over from the project. At the same time, the government's representatives were not convincing us about how to provide funds for principals and interest payments. It is quite clear that the part that the DARS will not be able to cover through the concession fee will be paid by all taxpayers, and we are not afraid of taxpayers. We do not oppose this extremely important intergenerational project in the parliamentary club, which is undoubtedly the construction of motorways in our country. By the way, it is envisaged that the principals and interest on the EUR 360 million covered will be reimbursed or paid by 2033. It is surprising, however, that the adoption of such decisions by the Government of extremely high resources in this case, we believe that there is no guarantee that the guarantee for this part of the funds will not be cashed into the burden of the state budget. As I have already mentioned, we will not oppose the adoption of both laws despite the questions raised at the parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Juban. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I also ask your permission to share our position at the same time on the law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to rent credits as well as on the same loan guarantee law. We will support both laws in our parliamentary group, but we are not satisfied with the way in which these laws and the way in which the programme for the construction of motorways as well as state roads is being implemented in this National Assembly. We are constantly faced with the need to adopt laws from today to tomorrow, we would like to see that the highway programme itself is clearly established for at least every year, that undisputedly there will be a clear definition of financing, that there will also be timely interviews with potential banks and others who are lending credits, because we are convinced that such a peaceful conversation can also be based on the content and quality of the relationship that such credit provides, better than if we constantly demand some solutions on our noses, and those who give us credits feel that they have a more favourable position and can exploit the conditions. We believe and expect that the DARS will come as soon as possible from the annual motorway programmes for next year, so that we will have the opportunity to discuss again how to speed up this programme so that all parts of Slovenia, not only what is now planned, can be connected and provided for our economy and for citizens and citizens with a more favourable transport link in the short term. However, it will probably be at that time that we have already warned, to think and to warn whether it is only the means of tolls, budgets and possible credits, regardless of whether they return only or partly in tolls, the only source, or whether there are other resources, perhaps even EU funds, sometimes also through the financing of foreign partners, so that our programme to build motorways and also state roads in their connection can be fully realized as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Run. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the discussion and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, half an hour after the end of the 5th point, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars D. D against credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme of Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 360 million. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! On the basis of the resolution of the national programme for the construction of motorways, adopted by the National Assembly in February 2004, there is an intensive construction of the motorway network, which receives increasingly clear faces on the highway cross itself, which runs in two directions from Maribor to Kopra - this leg will also be completely completed on 12 August - and from Karavank to Obrež - this leg will be completed in the following years - as well as on the connected motorways on the highway cross itself. I'm thinking mostly of a vipavska and pomurska highway. This increases the internal, in particular the inter-regional integration of the country and its appropriate integration into international road and traffic flows. The proposal for an agreement and guarantee law - we are talking about a twin, a law which is interdependent - which is currently under way, is about borrowing loans and issuing debt-backed securities of EUR 360 million, this year will allow the construction of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads, which are evenly distributed throughout the country, and their construction is covered by the 2005 annual development plan and the restoration of motorways, to which this National Assembly gave its consent in April 2005. It is the following sections: the Lendava-Pince motorway on the Pomeranian motorway, the Vrba-Peračica motorway on the Goranj kark, the Lesnica-Kronovo motorway on the Lower Highway, the Koper-Isol fast road and the first phase of the connecting road on the Port of Koper on the Primorski kark, then the Hajdin-Ptuj highway on the Podravska kark, and the Nova Zrkovska road on the Štjejerska kark road, which is part of the Pesnica-Slivnica motorway. Therefore, the financial resources necessary for the construction of the said sections are in accordance with the resolution on the national programme, provided both with the earmarked resources, the budget resources of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the law on the provision of dedicated funds for the construction of state roads, then with credits paid to domestic and foreign banks and international financial institutions, as well as through the issuance of debt and securities or bonds. The total investment value of these sections of motorways, fast roads and connecting roads amounts to EUR 539.29 million, and funding for these sections will be provided from earmarked funds of EUR 179.29 million and foreseen financial loans or by issuing debt securities of a total of EUR 360 million. In 2005, the quota for drawing up loans or issuing debt securities will reach an estimated EUR 47.57 million, or EUR 11.4 billion. In order to inform this National Assembly that the state of DARS’s indebtedness, d.d. to finance the national highway construction programme on 30.6.2005 amounted to €401 million, at the average rate of Banka Slovenije, which we consider to be a favourable situation at the Ministry of Transport. The resolution on the national programme provides for a total of EUR 2 billion and EUR 606 million in financial and investment flows by the end of 2013, which means that, in view of the fact that the construction of the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia exceeds the final phase, the value, the leased loans and the issued bonds will move within or below the financial model of the resolution of the national highway construction programme. Including the two guarantee laws that were dealt with in July, the debt of the DARS will increase to €2 billion by the end of 2010, accounting for approximately 75% of the value framework set out in the resolution on the national programme. In doing so, I would stress the following. The resolution on the national programme in your financial model, which you know well, provides for the repayment of credits and the issuance of securities by the end of 2033, with the toll collected and not with the burden of the state budget. In doing so, it must be said that 2% of annual transport growth, as foreseen by the financial model of the resolution on the national programme, has already been exceeded and is still growing between 2003 and 2005. In the preparation of the financial model, the Ministry of Transport based its resolution on the national programme on a conservative forecast of transport growth. Of course, it is necessary to understand that the credit commitments made by the DARS d.d. Hiring at the start of the implementation of the national programme, under much more unfavourable conditions, as are currently applicable in the banking market, is necessary to refinance or replace with more favourable credit packages, which is quite common in the business world. This is the management of credits leased, such as DARS, d.d., which is carried out on the basis of an agency contract concluded between him and the Republic of Slovenia in April 2004. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u94	Thank you, Minister Mag. Janez Christmas. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 11th urgent meeting on 27.7.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law on the guarantee of credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of motorway sections under the national highway programme in the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the government, representatives of the DARS, the representative of the Finance Ministry and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the work of the Committee. 22.7. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law in question should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The proposed law aims to allow for the timely provision of all possible conditions for resources that are a prerequisite for the submission of works and the start of the construction of the listed motorway sections Lendava-Pince, Nova Zrkovska, the link to Luka Koper, the first phase, Koper-Isol, Vrba-Peračica, Lesnica-Kronova and Hajdin-Ptuj, thereby allowing and providing conditions for the construction of those sections within the envisaged deadlines. All of these sections have a total budget value of EUR 539.29 million, of which the DARS’s own resources should be 179 million, and DARS’s 360 million will be in charge of this guarantee. With regard to financial implications, the DARS shall ensure that the funds for repayments of credits or issued bonds are provided from the concession fee. In this way, the financial implications of Slovenia's budget would only be met with exceptional results. I must say that the debate on the Committee was clear, there was none - all Members were united in our support for the intended and envisaged construction process and, of course, also to ensure the conditions for this construction. A lot of questions have been asked and we have not received enough convincing answers to some. Above all, here is the main question of how much or what is the likelihood that part of the return would come to taxpayers or that, in fact, as a marriage, the State should also actually repay loans or provide funds for bonds or other securities. The guarantee has been given several times, but it could be good that the complete picture that the minister mentioned earlier - a billion 400 we have all the debts until now, with these two credits, which also raised a question on the committee, why 250 million a month ago and now 360 now, and so on for the railways, and so on, if it is wise to deal with this matter so many times and after urgent procedures, nevertheless the current 2011 amount of billions of dollars, as the Minister has said. A total of 3.6 billion tolars are foreseen for the planned construction of our highway program. Of course, simulations can be made very clearly on the basis of existing data and on the basis of the inclusion of new sections that are being constructed and some statistics, and we can see more precisely what actual flows will be made from tolls or whether they will be able to cover all these new investments and new credits. I would also say that there is a general opinion that, of course, we all support the accelerated construction of motorways. We are pleased to see that in particular areas and legs, where nothing has moved for a long time, things have actually started to move and that we are doing a little more accelerated construction. It might also be good to consider, in view of this general opinion, because it is precisely such financial structures that ask us why we should not be indebted anymore, because we have the possibility of moratoriums, we have the possibility of long-term credits and, of course, in this way, allow for faster construction and completion of the highway programme and, of course, ensure that we can benefit as quickly as possible. The Committee has supported the amendment law to the first article and is proposing to the National Assembly that it also approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen. As we have already announced in the second item of today's agenda of the National Assembly, we will, of course, also support the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the DARS, which is currently on the table. This law is part of Slovenia's efforts, the efforts of the ministry and the government to implement the national programme for the construction of the highway network in the Republic of Slovenia last year, at least to the extent that it is outlined - possibly within the scope of the possibility even faster - and to implement the 2005 work plan. As we say, we will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As has already been said, the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the credit obligations of the DARS also supports the Slovenian National Party, as we believe that it is a key national issue of the final construction of the motorway cross in the Republic of Slovenia. We are particularly pleased that in fact, in the most critical areas of Slovenia, this is Lendava-Pince and Koper-Isol, Hajdin-Ptuj and Pesnica-Slivnica are removing traffic jams, which are essential to sustain state roads to such an extent that the basic infrastructure of citizens is literally destroyed. Houses are limping in the seams, and in fact there are also the biggest traffic jams. However, as the President has already pointed out in the previous law, I would like to say the following myself. On Slovenian roads we have the highest mortality rate in Europe, that for one class of children die on Slovenian state roads and that these state roads are the most burdened due to inadequate legislation. Of course, we will build highways, which will destroy them quickly, because we do not have any restrictions on these motorways, even more so, we have increased the last road safety law, we have also increased the basic pressure allowed, we have reduced the penalties, so that the flow on these roads will be reduced, we are talking about state roads, because many avoid payment, and we prefer to go to state roads, even more, and from this title will also be mortality and environmental threats - in short, the safety of road users is smaller or greater. Therefore, we firmly believe that, in line with the continuation of this package of legislation at the Ministry of Transport, which has large-scale plans and good work, we believe, we should adopt a law that would have a restrictive policy to a heavier transit cargo, particularly in transit in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that this load, following the example of Austria, which has this most exemplaryly arranged in Europe, should be diverted to railways, to so-called trainloads. That is why I also call on the Minister of Transport to prepare, as soon as possible, a legal basis that will be presented to the National Assembly and thus avoid the worst disasters in Europe and to increase environmental security in Slovenia. I hope that the government will quickly gather wisdom and wisdom on vacations so that it will also bring this to the national assembly for procedure and acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the system of financing the construction of motorways, which we have in Slovenia, it is clear that construction in the envisaged and even less in the necessary dynamics can by no means be carried out only with budgetary resources and tolls. It is also clear that roads are being built not only for one generation or for a shorter period, but for a longer period and for a longer period of time, it is necessary to divide or distribute the construction burden over a longer period of time. We can do this by lending, by issuing long-term securities, which, of course, is not possible without the State guarantee. Therefore, we believe that this guarantee law, as far as it is concerned, is also necessary. The other thing to say is that if we look at the dynamics and location of building highways in the past, we can't possibly say that we've been building unnecessary motorways. It is true, however, that sometimes the question is whether priorities have been properly set. In our opinion, there are quite a few areas in Slovenia which, as far as this is concerned, have been neglected, I am talking about Prekmurje, Koroška, Štajerski, and some other end of Slovenia would have been found. And it is this guarantee law that will allow the dynamics of these motorways to increase in these areas and that what is needed will be built up. We do not have any specific concerns in our parliamentary group regarding the urgency of this law. We know that it is too little if we have a programme to build motorways, but we do not have the funding provided on the other hand. And it is this law, or this twin, that allows this construction to take place within these envisaged deadlines and that the construction project will not actually fall behind. We also think that it is not some headless debt, but it is actually one resource that is needed to make the necessary project to build highways even in some foreseeable future complete. After all, we have all the assurances and all the assumptions that show that the cashing out of the guarantees should practically not take place because the total liabilities will be paid from the concession fees. For all of this, we will also support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mr. Geza Juban. He's quitting. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the New Slovenia Group, we will propose a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the DARS under loans and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national highway programme in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 360 million. The adoption of the proposed guarantee law will ensure the smooth implementation of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia. The funds will be drawn in multiple instalments by the end of 2009. The 2004 and 2005 Budget Implementation Act sets a ceiling on guarantees for credit liabilities, which must not exceed the total amount of the principals of 150 billion. In early July, the guarantee quota was used at 102 billion tolars. The legislative proposal clearly defines the amount to be spent or leased in this year and the use of this loan over the longer term for the planned sections. These sections, which are in full construction, are thus projected to consume a 47m-euro loan this year, or 11.4 billion tolars. Investment programmes or computer simulations that are made on a permanent basis each year show that the toll is sufficient to pay credits that will enable the planned implementation of such a national programme. Therefore, the fear expressed by the opposition Members on the labour force to pay off the loans paid out of the budget, given the current situation and the rather optimistic picture in the future, is unfounded. Surely, however, we in the New Slovenia Group are also aware that the key parameter for calculating the volume of the toll depends on transport, on the growth of traffic in the future and on the toll system itself. But as I mentioned before, there is no reason to be afraid. Surely the programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is one of the most important national projects of the current and future generation. We can compare importance with our EU membership. It is therefore important that the project be implemented according to the plan or on the basis of the national programme adopted. Moreover, the so-called state, main and regional roads will also need to be modernised. Only with adequate road transport infrastructure will we be able to become interesting for investors in the less developed areas of the Republic of Slovenia in the future. Certainly, without the loans hired, it will not be possible to resolve or build such important and necessary infrastructure. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a guarantee law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - To a re-decision on the Act on Complements of the Law on the State Council. At its 6th extraordinary meeting on 15 July 2005, the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on the amendments to the law on the State Council. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which informed the assembly in writing. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mojci Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u105	Thank you very much. A nice greeting for everyone, including the representative of the State Council! At its 10th emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a decision of the Council of State requiring the National Assembly to decide again on the law supplementing the Law on State Council adopted by the National Assembly at its 8th session on 14.7 [[..]] The meeting was attended by the State Council, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government of RS and the Ministry of Public Administration. On behalf of the applicant, the representative of the Council of State first challenged the application for a supplementary explanation of the decision that the law supplementing the Law on the State Council had been adopted following a reduced procedure, as it was a change which threatened the constitutional position of the State Council. According to the proposaler, the representative of the Council of State, there has been some kind of conflict between the Council of State and the National Assembly, which is reflected in the wrong approach to solving the problems that have arisen with regard to the decision of the Court of Auditors. The Council of State considers that in this case it would be necessary to consider either amending the Constitution or abolishing the Council of State or to introduce into the Constitution an article on the award of state councillors corresponding to Article 95 of the Constitution, but not to hide itself for the unproven claim of unconstitutionality and illegality of the rules of procedure of the State Council. Regarding the status of state councilors, he said that the state councilors performed this function honourably, i.e. unprofessionally, and according to the relevant regulations, i.e. in the opinion of the Council of State, it was not good and it was not properly regulated to refund the loss of profits. He also said that when the law was re-confirmed in the National Assembly, they would use all legal channels, both at home and in the international space, and they would also think about self-refoulement. The representative of the RS government, Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, presented the government's written opinion, which shows that the government disagrees with the reasons for the decision of the State Council and insists on the law to supplement the law on the State Council to its present explanations and views, and stressed that it objects to the fact that this law constitutes a conspiracy or war on the Minister, the Government, the State Council against the State Council. This is about the battle for legality, respect and the principles of legality. He recalled the essential element or essential fact behind the proposed amendment, namely Article 62 of the current Law on the State Council, which states that the function of a member of the Council of State is honorable and that a member of the Council of State has the right to compensation and that none of the articles cited by the representative of the Council of State speak of the salary of the President or of any other member of the Council of State. The issue of the professional function of the President was also raised by the Court of Auditors, which led the Council of State to propose a change of law to the National Assembly. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service did not attend the meeting, but we did get a written opinion in which the Legal and Legislative Service warned that neither in the constitution nor in the system provided for by the law in force, there was no support for professionalisation and therefore a related determination of the salary of the State Council. In the debate, however, the members and members of the Committee largely opposed the reasons for the decision of the Council of State and expressed support for the law. They highlighted the following: that it is not good that the whole debate on the State Council concentrates on the question of the professionalisation of the President of the State Council, that the open issue of the functioning of the State Council needs to be settled and, in this regard, that an initiative is also given to the Government to examine the actual situation and to draw up a proposal which, in accordance with the Constitution and the legislation in force, will solve such issues as the possibility that the President of the State Council may obtain for its work in addition to the compensation for lost earnings a certain lump sum. This was an instruction to the government to explore this possibility, whether it was possible. Furthermore, the members said that it was not serious and irresponsible for the State Council to link its entire operation only to the professionalisation or non-professionalisation of its President and finally to adopt a decision and to propose to the National Assembly that it should adopt a new law on amendments to the law on the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u106	I thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, for presenting the report. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The constitutional position of the State Council is not threatened, and it means, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group and, of course, in the majority opinion of all of us here, that the function of membership in this body is merely honorable and cannot be defined by the weight of half a billion tolls of the costs that we are earmarking, after the extract that I have obtained today, actually for the work of this body. It would be best if we set up a congregational assembly, but we would have a three - house system. And then, in fact, social security would be ensured. Apparently, Mr Janez Sušnik has already submitted a pension application to the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, as it appears from the actual press review. And if that is true, then the government is actually responding precisely in this case when it says that the President, if he is a pensioner or an unemployed person, is unjustifiable until he receives his compensation. And in order for the picture to be even more complete, I will increase the actual demand of the State Council on the last adoption of the law when we had it in the National Assembly on RTV, when the peaceful souls wrote that the State Council should be able to appoint 5 members of the Programme Council on RTV on the basis of Article 17 of the Act, because they represent the interests of employers, farmers, craftsmen, professions and so on and so on. In short, it is only subtlely about defending their interests, which are intended to be semi-professional or professional, professional and to generate additional profits in this area. If we need a state council, this should be an honorary function and, of course, nothing should be received for this honorary function. Honor also has its price. It seems right for me to define this non-professional function in this law as truly unprofessional and to delete the budget lines and actually not allow the state council to abolish itself, but to ensure that it is abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Willy Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Although we have already heard a so-called prediction today that this problem will even be internationalised, we in the DeSUS Group hope that today is the final stage of more than half a year's debate on the issue now on the agenda. It is clear, however, that both the state council and the government insist on some very opposition positions and that it is almost possible to predict that the National Assembly will also insist and once again support the proposed law, which has already been passed. However, these conflicting views may also indicate that the role, function, performance of the work of the State Council must be considered even more deeply and for a longer period of time, and that it is not necessary to keep our eyes closed to the truth. If that were not the case, there would not be such a conflict of opinion. These conflicting views were visible or are also visible from the material now sent to us by the State Council, but in the DeSUS Group in these positions we did not find a new argument that would have influenced us to change our views. In fact, it seems to us that it is possible to discern from this last letter that we received a form of moralization. This moralization and justification, or justification for the good work of the State Council, is likely to involve some errors in the logical thinking process. I'm going to try to present some of this very briefly. It will not hold that honoring a position of some kind would be contrary to dishonesty. That's not what the National Assembly said. The National Assembly simply insisted that the function is performed in a non-professional manner and that it does not have anything to do with non-professionality or professionalism, or that one category of others cannot provide an adequate status. We feel that it may also be honorable to perform an unprofessional function, and we estimate that the President of the Council of State, after he is no longer a professional official, is expected to continue his duties, will perform this task with honor. And in doing so, we will probably be in support, too, when we will be the work that, if it will be honorable, as it were, we will be judged. And this is not going to play any role in the profession or in the free. Of course, that is not true either, as it was written in order to be disfellowshipped with free or free of charge. It will not be as much as the speaker said before me that someone would do this job for free, but unprofessionally does not mean a total free fee, but it also means a certain amount of compensation, and it also means the reimbursement of those costs that a person has in performing a certain function. It seems a bit illogical, too, what is written in the message or in the positions of the State Council, in order that, because it changes in the same part - that is, in the professional exercise of this function in the state world - it has now broken the system. Because it says there to break the system. We are confident that the system will work in the future, we hope that it will work at least as well as it has done so far, because from these discussions that we have experienced so far, we can probably all learn something small and correct our work when it is not good enough or when it is questionable from the point of view of honor. However, there have been some such concerns as whether the work of the State Council or whether the determinations are always such that we must attribute direct honor to them. It's not an honorable function in itself. The work performed by someone in this function will ensure respect and honor. And since we have not found any new arguments in the DeSUS Group of Members, we will once again support the adoption of the law as it has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. President of the Council of State, colleagues, colleagues! I would like to start by saying that, by amending or supplementing this law, we are not talking about the abolition or non-initiation of a professional function, we are not talking about the necessity or non-necessity of the State Council, we are not talking about whether the work will continue to be smooth or not, which has happened several times in the debate, but we are talking only about the fact that the new law, the proposed law provides for a dictatorship or imposes a dictatorship more clearly and unequivocally than it once did when it made it possible to have a different understanding. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will also support the proposed law this time and, irrespective of the veto adopted by the Council of State and its justifications on the basis of the veto voted, we believe that the proposed regulation law, which will eliminate a different understanding of the law on the State Council so far. This differing understanding of the status of state councillors, and in particular of its President and Vice-President, the proposed addition unequivocally eliminates and this is also the main purpose of the proposed law. Complements of the law by their content shall in no way interfere with the smooth conduct of the work of the State Council, as the State Council seeks to justify. The uninterrupted work shall not be guaranteed by professionalisation of the President, but by means of an appropriate legal arrangement established by law, whereby the President of the Council of State shall carry out a legally sound duty and, of course, shall also be entitled to adequate compensation for the loss of earnings for the duration of his office and for the reimbursement of the costs related to the performance of this function. This compensation or reimbursement shall be determined on the basis of the applicable criteria prescribed for that purpose. It is clear that the President, in addition to the rights and duties of a member of the Council of State, has additional tasks related to the work and management of the Council of State and cooperation with other national authorities, but this does not in itself mean that the presidency should be professional. The other provisions of the law define the status of the President of the Council of State, from which it follows whether or not the function is professional. And these other regulations say that the function is not professional. This has been based on the provisions of the law so far, but with the proposed addition, this is now completely clear and the current doctrine no longer allows for any more doubts than the previous one, at least for some. The Council of State also notes, inter alia, that the question of the legality of payment of salaries to the President of the Council of State does not depend on the rules of procedure of the Council of State, which is also true, since the Constitutional Court also decided that the provision of this Rules of Procedure relating to the salary of the President of the State Council is not the legal basis for the payment of this salary. However, the State Council does not state that the legal basis for the payment of wages to the President of the State Council is a budget which has the power of law. This is not true, for the budget line itself is not yet the legal basis for the payment of wages, unless there is at the same time an appropriate legal provision to prescribe it. And there has been no such legal provision so far, and this is even explicitly prohibited by the current bill. The National Council also cites the case from the former Yugoslavia as a special justification for the opposition to the marriage supplement, since in the current Republic Assembly, the good number of delegates of the time are performing an honorable social function. The fact is that this too is true, but it is not possible to compare the arrangements of the former non-democratic system with the current parliamentary regime and even to offer some of the solutions of the day as an example of the current regime. Notwithstanding the fact that the President's tasks are regulated in specific and separate chapters in the current Law on the Council of State, this does not give any additional basis for claiming that the President's office should be professional. As I have already mentioned, such additional engagement by the President and thereby the loss of his earnings and the reimbursement of his expenses is saved and guaranteed in another way. Among other things, the Council of State says that the proposed law does not have the legal basis for changing the professional office of president into a non-professional one. This is written in the explanatory memorandum, but since the law in question does not involve a change in the professional function to non-professional. So far, as has been said many times, the legal basis for the professional office of the President of the Council of State has not been and by supplementing the Law on the State Council, what has already been in force, but has not been implemented, is only written down more clearly and unequivocally. Then let's go. The Council of State states that the abolition of a professional function - which is only a de facto abolition, but not a legal one, since the rule of professional office did not provide - thus that the abolition of a professional function constitutes an anti-constitutional act that prevents the state world from doing its work and performing its constitutionally designated powers in a qualitative manner. This statement by the Council of State is, in my opinion, pointless, as the content of the powers of the State Council has not been changed in any way. The powers are exactly the same as before, only the work of the President will not be professional, but his lost time will also be adequately replaced, as has been said several times before, during the course of his duties and costs. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we see no reason for the decision we have already taken to change it, and we will therefore once again support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The word is given by Dr. Gantar on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u113	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Joint LDS, we believe that the law on the amendments to the law on the State Council is unnecessary. The honorary function of the President of the Council of State is already defined in the current law as it is. If the function is honorable, it does not mean that it is not working either, that it is not difficult and that it does not have some important and necessary symbolic function. And if he has all this, of course, he's also right to pay for it. Of course, we do not believe that this payment under existing legislation can come from the working, regular working relationship of the President of the Council of State. However, this is what the present law defines. At the same time, of course, contrary to some others, we believe that the payments made so far by the President of the Council of State were not illegal because it was foreseen in a budget which has the power of law. However, since you have actually changed or abolished this item by means of a rebalancing, there is no longer any basis for this law on this side, as this wage item has already been abolished in some way. So, the government is actually shooting sparrows with guns with this law. The only result will continue to be the additional symbolic degradation of the state council, its president and also of the saints and saints. At the same time, the government will, of course, boast that it has saved several million in this regard. However, we need to ask ourselves how much money disappears for those operations that allow and allow for the so-called selectively dosed leakage of information from predictive sources in police procedures that actually shed a strange light on the rule of law. Perhaps this aspect of the rule of law would be better and more focused. Of course, we are not all satisfied with the constitutional situation of the State Council, I have personally pointed out that such a state council is not a good solution, so instead of the partial solutions proposed by this law, we support the proposal to have a serious discussion on the role and situation of the State Council. For many years, both in the professional and lay public, there has been a dispute over the eligibility of the existence of the State Council. There were also proposals for the abolition of the state council. I believe that the role of the State Council should be reconsidered in the light of the future regionalisation of Slovenia and the role that the State Council could perform in such a regional structure. We have always been prepared for such a debate, and we think that such a debate is necessary and that it cannot be replaced by a law that actually abolishes something that has never actually existed. No one will benefit from this law, but above all those who see an institution in the state world who has a few words and sometimes even a message and a statement. Thank you very much. That's it. We will not support the law in the LDS, but we do, of course, allow it, and we can do that, of course, that everyone in the LDS is voting here on his conscience and conviction.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Miran Potsch on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u115	Thank you very much. It is not a good thing to believe in social democracy and it is not a honour for the high authorities that we are dealing with these issues, that relations between the Council of State and the National Assembly have been politicised on the assessment that the Council of State will exist or not if it has a professional president or not; and on the debate on whether we want to raise the question of how to regulate these obligations or rights, to question the functioning of the Council of State. I am sorry that we do not know about the real problems to discuss in real terms, and I am sure that if we could really discuss the real problems, this is either my opinion or the opinion of our parliamentary groups that this moment for professionalization and the working relationship is not the right conditions - we could set them up, but this moment is not - but this does not mean that the position of the President of the State Council does not require adequate employment as well. I personally think that 8 hours and 10 and 12 hours a day - someone may think otherwise - but surely it is not just volunteering, but sometimes it has to sit here physically for some time. I argue that, at the slightest good will, not only the National Assembly, but also the President and the members of the Council of State, this could be settled a long time ago, and I regret that we are discussing this issue as a prestigious issue. I therefore believe that it is imperative that the possibilities of ensuring a successful part of the Council of State also be ensured, through the engagement of the President, that the condition for this is not, in any case, fully professionalised. I hope, and only in this sense does it seem to us that this law will at least in peace now finally encourage this debate and this has been our proposal, not how, but that it must be arranged that we will not, as we have been doing for a decade, play Pink Punk, who is more responsible for one or another solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren, Nova Slovenija, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u117	Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Council of State, fellow Member and fellow Members. In the New Slovenia Group, we have the same position as we had 14 days ago when we passed the Act on Supplements to the Law on the State Council. In these 14 days, we have not come up with any new facts to change our position. We are surprised, however, that the Council of State has adopted a veto and has returned the law to our decision-making. The decision or explanation of the decision adopted by the Council of State also stated, among other things: "The addition of the law by its content significantly interferes with the smooth functioning of the work of the Council of State does not provide the right arguments for the completion of the law, which is contrary to the law on public finances, which already lays down, between the objectives of the budget and the principles of the law, in Article 2, that the budget funds are used to finance the functions of the State and municipal authorities for the performance of their duties and other purposes defined by the Constitution, laws or municipal rules, at a level necessary for the operation and performance of their tasks and programmes." And they also wrote in the following: "The question of the legality of payments of salaries to the President of the State Council is not dependent on the rules of procedure of the State Council, but rather on payment of the basis of the budget." In the New Slovenia Group, we do not agree with these arguments, because we believe that in the present law on the state world, the matter is clear enough and even in the constitution. In order to hold our arguments, we also believe that the Court of Auditors has already pointed out in its report that there is a conflict in the professional performance of the presidential function. Therefore, we believe that the State Council must change its rules of procedure in order to comply with the law. For this is the last time I have pointed out that the State Council, as a state institution, cannot afford to violate the principle of legality. The law we are reinstated today explicitly defines the position of President and Vice-President as honorable and unprofessional. And in New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party will once again support the law, because we want this principle of legality, which is the foundation of democracy, to be respected everywhere, especially in state bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I also welcome Mr President of the Council of State, Mr Sušnik, in the Chamber, and I must say that he had his first word by protocol and by procedure. He was in the hall, but he was sitting in the back of the hall, so the chairman didn't notice him. I ask you, Mr. President, do you want a word? Good. Here you go, please. Mr. Mag. Zlatko Jenko, you were both in the other room asking you who objected to my decision? [[...]] Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u119	Thank you for the words, honourable Members and Members, a nice greeting, as well as for the President, the representatives of the Government and the Minister, and, of course, our President of the Council of State. I will take this opportunity to highlight the things we consider important in our proposal. The Council of State does not object to the opening of a debate on the assessment of part of the Council of State, its role, its purpose and its composition. But this is another matter. We believe that this proposal for a law adopted by the National Assembly is not in this direction to solve the legal problem that we believe is not merely a matter of enforcing the principle of legality. If that were the case, then we would accept the proposal put into the procedure by the Council of State. It is solely a political decision on the non-professional role of the President of the State Council. On the basis of the proposal of this law or of this law, it could be concluded that the constitutional position of the State Council is actually at risk. The Council of State is a constitutional category defined in the Constitution immediately after the National Assembly and before the President of the State. This also gives him the right weight. We take this law no matter what it is that it is not a conflict between the national assembly, the government on the one hand and the state council, it is an attempt to degrade the state council and the saints as well. We agree that, if necessary, it is a procedure for amending the Constitution, but we do not agree to withdraw the so-called "bypass path" and to significantly interfere with the functioning of the State Council at the expense of the budget line or the amendment of the law. Why can’t the president of the State Council be unprofessional, or why should he have an indefinite working relationship? This is defined in the articles of the Law on the State Council, in particular as defined in Article 44, where it says: "The President represents the Council of State, prepares, convenes and leads the meetings of the Council of State and coordinates the work between the Council of State and the Assembly of State." Who knows the work of the Council of State and who imagines the work of the President of the Council of State, then knows that this work cannot be done differently than that of the President of the Council of State. Nor is it appropriate to seek solutions from the current President of the Council of State, who has special status. If this law is to be announced in the form proposed or adopted by the national assembly, it means that none of the state councillors in the labour relationship can run for President of the Council of State. Only those who are retired or unemployed can do so. Although it has been repeatedly said that the status of state councillors has been regulated by other regulations, this is not true. I would ask that a government representative or representatives of parliamentary groups support these arguments with material evidence. In this context, I would like to point out that the work of state councilors is honorable, unprofessional, while at the same time it means the presence of state councilors, including the President of the Council of State, if not employed, is considered an unpaid absence from work. I ask you now, given the scope of the work of the President of the Council of State, how can this function be performed in nature. No one among the employers would have agreed that the President of the Council of State was employed in his company but was present in the State Council, while he was not entitled to the remuneration for the absence of remuneration. The reference to illegality and non-constitutionality also lacks legal basis, as the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court have only pointed out this; the Court of Auditors has to coordinate matters in such a way as to maintain them legally, and the Constitutional Court has not found that they are contrary to the law on the State Council, nor in the Rules of Procedure. So much for me. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In the Chamber I welcome Minister Virant and give him my word at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Council of State, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! I think we all agree that our time would be much more cost-effective if we spent it on a substantive debate on the role, powers and future of the state world. On this occasion, however, I must also point out that it is not the government's fault to waste so much time discussing the professional or non-professional performance of the presidency of the State Council. I reiterate that it is not the Minister's war, or the government, or the National Assembly against the Council of State, and I regret that this law is necessary at all and that the Council of State could have settled matters on its own long ago and that all this procedure would not have been necessary at all. It is therefore not a war against the state world, but a battle, respect for the laws, of legality. We must not confuse some basic facts. The basic fact is that, from the very beginning of 1992, the Law on the State Council established and still provides not only that the function of a member of the State Council is honorable, but also immediately states that a member of the State Council has the right to compensation and so on. It is clear from this provision that members of the Council of State are required to perform their duties in a non-professional manner and no exception is recorded for the Vice-Presidents or President of the Council of State. On the basis of its Rules of Procedure, the Council of State has carried out and maintained this practice of professionally acting as President. In 2003, the Court of Auditors drew attention to this problem, to the controversy of such practice, and the Council of State reacted to it by feeling the problem of submitting to the National Assembly a change in law to give the legal basis for the professional performance of this function, and the National Assembly rejected it, so the legislator made an explicit decision not to create a legal basis for the professional performance of the presidency of the State Council. It would be insufferable if such a situation as we had and as we still have it in practice today were to go on indefinitely. Indeed, citizens rightly expect state institutions to comply consistently with the rules, not only when they decide on the rights and obligations of citizens and legal persons, but also when they decide on their rights. So I can say that the government has no choice but to react in the way it reacted. And I stress that the government has not changed the status of President of the State Council, because this status has been regulated since the first day the law entered into force in such a way; only the State Council has interpreted the law in a way that, I would say, does not contain all the criteria of the legal profession. There is no valid reason why this status, as provided for in the law, should be changed and so should the UZUS, the tactical professionalisation of the President of the State Council, cannot be an argument for such a legal change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Geza Juban, LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Chairman. I took the floor to say very briefly that as long as we have a state council, it would indicate that we would have a professional president. The reasons are as follows. We are probably not going to change our opinion here, too, for the last time, the vote was so convincing that this law is certainly supported today and the story will happen just as it has to. However, this Council of State has 40 councillors and about so many employees, and if we look at it from a cost perspective, it does not represent the president's salary of a certain budget burden, which is why we should do what we do. And it is probably necessary for these few ten permanent, regular employees, and occasionally when the saints arrive in this house, a professional position of president is required. However, I am among those who, like many, point out that a systematic approach is being taken to the debate on the role, competence of the State Council to bring this world to an end. I am among those who support the abolition of the State Council all the time, and I am still in this position today. In the meantime, there have been a number of awkwardities that have already been discussed here today, when the state council has given warnings about the level of remuneration, so I will say benefits, always looking for a way to bypass these warnings and retain the status when it is said in some ways: a third of the salary and then everything else. It must have been awkward, and that's what happened. It is interesting, however, that those who will remember the last budget rebalancing, when we were taking some funds with some amendment to the State Council, when those advocates were needed as a supervisory system over the National Assembly, that it must be, that it remains, that is important - most of them today are talking about how it is not necessary to professionalise this function, and also what I am saying that the State Council should be abolished. It is likely that a new time has come where the role of the whole state council will have to be resolved. My opinion is that what we are saving today will not solve much, because in the next phase, what we will all find necessary is that we are talking together about powers, the role of the State Council and perhaps its abolition. But the deprofessionalisation of the President alone, I don't think it's a good solution, but everything else should be resolved at this time as long as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The position, both mine and the members of the Slovenian National Party, is that the State Council needs to be abolished. The country's world is a remnant of socialist thinking, which is still a three-way parliament within the national assembly, which has no weight, and even less of a hack. The undeniable fact is that even in the case of this law, which we will re-examine and which we will support, some gentlemen want only a good salary for themselves, and what else they do not care about. We have analysed the functioning of the State Council, and we have found that we cannot actually identify any of the positive things that the State Council has done. It has always been in some way either for certain political interests or for the self-interest of the State Council, and neither in any case nor in any other case is the need of the State Council. I think it's one of Mr Butcher's misgivings, who somehow wanted to do something new, but still stay with the old. Something like our translators who still say that we have a national assembly when they translate into English, but the national assembly has been gone since 1992 since the introduction of multilateral parliamentaryism. It would make sense to shut down the State Council, it would make sense for the State to increase the Assembly to 120 members so that it could work. Within the framework of all the services that also serve the State Council and which bear the budget of the National Assembly, we could do so peacefully and save some more money. In short, we will be happy to support this law, and if necessary, we would support it again. The undeniable fact is that we do not need institutions such as the State Council, despite being represented as the second home of the National Assembly or as the second home of the Republic of Slovenia. We all know that we have a single-home system. Some people don't want to know. And if someone doesn't want to know the truth, then he has to see it in one way or another. I prefer a little more pain, if not otherwise, because others will learn something from it. However, we are not in some "banana republic" where people could make laws like "dogs" and cut their canvas as much as they would like. But if we did know that those who cut would not only cut off their clothes, but would cut off their clothes for themselves, for their family, and for all of you, regardless of the fact that half the village has already gone into town. In short, we do not support the desire of the State Council for the marriage to fall. After all, it is a matter of private interest, which we condemn most harshly. We think the state council, as long as it is, should be an honorable body, should be. But, unfortunately, the state world isn't. It is a very political body, and it is almost a privatized body, for when it is necessary to veto, there is certainly no veto. When given a veto, it is usually a veto when it comes to their own benefits or their own rights. Once again, I'd be happy to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Last week we faced a hearing when we were practically unable to talk about anything else, except what was on the agenda, which was the call for a referendum. But if we had a similar discussion today, or if we were to conduct this meeting today, we would probably have finished the matter in five minutes. In fact, 90% of the debate relates to content that is not the subject of today's debate. 90% of the debate is about whether it is right for the Council of State to end or not, or whether it is right for the President of the Council of State to be professional or not. However, this is not the content of this law that we are talking about. The content of the law is merely to stipulate that the function of the members of the Council of State is honorable and, of course, also to the President and the Vice-President, that this should be written down more clearly and unequivocally. It's just the content of this law and nothing else. And given that the dictatorship has been ambiguous for some, and since the state council itself did not want to apply what the law has already regulated, the government has now written this proposal in such a way that it is not possible to understand this any more than the fact that the position of President of the Council of State is unprofessional. And thus explicitly prohibits the professional performance of the function, as has now been the case in practice - and nothing else. Anything else that has been discussed today, however, may be the subject of another debate, another proposed act that this National Assembly may sometimes consider in the future. He's done it once in the past. Months ago, I don't know exactly when, the National Assembly had already discussed a proposal that would actually put the presidency of the Council in such a way as to make it professional. Clearly, then, the then State Council's proposal was aware that the dictatorship of the existing current law did not allow this to happen and that it wanted to change this dictatorship, provided for this change and that that law would make it a professional function. And since the National Assembly then opposed it, this was not accepted, the matter is clear. And all the debate beyond that, I think it could be more limited today than it is. For, speaking of all other things, I do not think it is in place, for the subject is only one sentence, which means the addition of the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. A representative of the Council of State has the floor, Mr Mag. Sweet Jenko. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I just want to say that the State Council has tried to do everything to solve this problem, but the National Assembly has decided differently, so we also have this procrastination veto ahead of us. It should also be said that the Council of State on this proposal is the only constitutional body not having a professional president. The Council of State considers that until we change the Constitution, we should not change the laws, the position of the State Council and the conditions for the exercise of its constitutional functions. What has been said about the role, about the existence of the State Council, we are ready to talk and think that this is the right way. If we focus only on what has been proposed by law and only on the reasons, on the so-called legal basis and on the principle of respect for legality, we would say that the government has submitted to the National Assembly a law with the wrong and misleading justification. The unconstitutionality and illegality of the Rules of Procedure have not been proven by the Constitutional Court and this has not been discussed at all. It is also unrealistic to claim that Article 62 of the Law on the Council of State provides for an honorary office for the President and that the law does not concern the President of other provisions. You can read that in your marriage. The reduced procedure is also not justified by the Rules of Procedure, since it is a constitutional category. Nor is there a comparative representation of the regime presented in other countries, and I do not think that this legal justification holds up, so we propose that you follow our proposal, this is a procrastination veto, and that you are again deciding on this law for the benefit of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mag. The fairies and the mags. It's bad luck. They've got five minutes each, tops.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I also think that this debate on the state world is simply too fast, too partial and in this way unnecessary. The matter of the state world must be resolved in a much broader way and otherwise, rather than narrowing it down to the level of some wage and, of course, the influence and deception of the public are also paying for this theory. The State Council, as long as we have it, is a constitutional category and must be treated and treated as such. In general, as a young Member, I see that the state world is working a lot, quite a lot is happening there. I have spent several times in those thematic debates and debates, but unfortunately, I was the only one several times, and often a rare one in that Chamber. And that's why I think it's just a partial abolition of something that's doing well, it's not okay, because it's not important whether we cut the salary or not. It is a matter of assessing whether the state world is needed or not. In my opinion, the matter is substantially different than it is today, and that is why I will also follow my own beliefs and also support this constitutional issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Stab, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr President of the Council of State, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The replacement for the performance of the post is intended to be a category of what belongs to the President of the Council of State as the first of the same in the State Council. I came to you because I want to show you an anology with a similar institution in the European Union, which I am a member of, this is a committee of regions where we are representatives of local and regional authorities, all those who have been elected in local or regional elections, and we represent in fact the interests of these levels, and the state council represents several different types - I call it the Czech interest. And in this institution, the committee of the regions, no one gets paid. They have administrative staff, support staff and relevant services, but no one who is a member of this body, a delegate, a board member, as you wish, receives a salary. They shall receive compensation in the form of diaries and payment of all costs related to the performance of their functions, and that is all. Even more, this institution shall draw up appropriate opinions, in particular with regard to documents produced by the European Commission. All these opinions, which are made or made by individual rapporteurs, we work only for our honour and are not specifically paid for. The experts we engage are also not paid for this, except for compensation for this, for travel and expenses related to these travels and support services are involved. I find it totally unacceptable to refer to the Constitution, but to violate the record law. A very beautiful or bad example to all those who, in fact, break the laws and excuse others for breaking the laws. I believe that, as - I think - Mr Minister said, by this law, we, in fact, recognize that with some addition, we want to give a little more emphasis to the matter and then, after the adoption of this law, which I support, we also want to take action. I hope that we will take action now as well. The debate on the state world as an institution is, of course, very welcome, and I believe that the words that have been said about this at all these weeks will and should lead to serious consideration of the status of the State Council or its necessity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The assembly will decide on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting and will hold today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, or no later than 20.50, at the latest. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on Registration Equipment in Road Transport. At the 7th extraordinary meeting of 22.7.2005, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of paragraph 1 of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-declare before declaring the law on working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and on the recording of premiums in road transport. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request. Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u135	Dear Members and Members. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary with the team. Well, I'd like to explain in five minutes because I have limited time. You've received the material of the State Council, and I'd like to say something more. So, the reasons for the argument are as follows. Since the proposed law did not take into account the comments of the representatives of carriers, it is said that the amendments to the Chamber of Commerce, Crafts, GIZ and SAS have been made clear that the law applies as a special provision and thus cease to apply the law on the employment of mobile workers as from the date of the application of the individual decision. On 5.7.2005, an interdepartmental working group was held at the Ministry of Transport, which adopted the following conclusion: "Unless consensus is reached on the articles of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest and recording equipment on road transport, the proposal is withdrawn from the procedure of the National Assembly." Next point. Since the law does not fully comply with EU minimum standards; thirdly, because it places Slovenian carriers in a less competitive position; fourthly, because the applicant did not take into account the reasoned comments of the legislature; fifthly, because the law on individual important provisions is unclear and incomprehensible because it allows different interpretations in practice. This raises the question of the compatibility of the law with Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that Slovenia is a legal state, meaning that the legal word must be clear and understandable to the average citizen. It should be prevented that the rules concerning the application of individual provisions of the new law should only be established by case law. Explanation. In 1985, EU regulation 3820/85, which lays down rules on driving time, was adopted at EU level. In Slovenia, the current regulation is implemented in the Road Traffic Safety Act, 2002. The 1993 General European Working Time Directive 93/104/S allows Member States to adopt specific rules for the organisation of working time in activities subject to specific rules. Mobile workers are also falling into this particular area. From the EU's point of view, therefore, the field of mobile workers is completely separate and specifically regulated, working hours, rests, rests, night work, especially because specific road safety rules apply. In Slovenia, the Act on the Working Relations of this specification and the Possibilities of Special Regulation of the Working Time of Mobile Workers did not define or allow derogations from accepted minimum standards. Since it is not clear from the individual provisions of the new law which provisions of the Labour Relations Act will continue to apply to mobile workers from the date of the entry into force of this Law, many questions are raised. In order to improve safety and prevent distortions of competition, drivers must know exactly what is considered to be working hours; whether during working hours the rest period is also considered; what is counted at rest; or whether the maximum weekly driving time can be increased to 60 hours as provided for in Directive 2002/15, or whether it can only be 56 hours as provided for by the Labour Relations Act. Whether the average working time shall be 48 hours for four months together or in conjunction for 40 hours for six months, as provided for by the Labour Relations Act. Will the available time of the worker, following the vehicles on the ferry, on the train and similar matters also be counted during work hours? In particular, according to the Economic and Commercial Chamber, in the road transport of goods and passengers, 9 thousand 442 economic operators and employs 27 thousand 535 drivers. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Is the time up? [[...]] Can I read the conclusions? The proposal, because there is no time - we propose that the state assembly law on the working time of mobile workers, such as recording equipment in road transport, does not accept that Slovenian carriers will be able to compete with carriers from other European countries and in practice to implement labour law and social legislation in road transport. Perhaps the government should start again and actively with this law. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] And this, just two words. The 1993 EU Regulation by which the Slovenian Government agreed and allowed all transits of carriers from EU countries without permits, i.e. free, and our carriers had to put a truck on the wagon in Austria, or, in other words, an ass horse, which is not normal for modern transport logistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much. He also requested consideration by the Transport Committee, which informed the assembly in writing. Does the rapporteur of the committee want a presentation of the message? No, no, no. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill of reasons for the opinion. Please, Master Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport provides for the implementation of Council Regulation EEC No 3820/85 and Council Regulation EEC No 3821/85 for competent authorities, holders of public authority, official records and fines for offences. The law also brings Council Directive 88/599 EEC, which regulates supervisory procedures for the implementation of the said Directives, to the Slovenian legal order, is also EC Directive 2002/15 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which deals in more detail with certain areas of working time for mobile workers. We stress that mobile workers are subject to the rules of this law. The law therefore represents, in fact, "lex specialis", but cannot completely amend general laws governing general rules in specific areas and also partially affect the field of mobile workers, such as, say, the Labour Relations Act and the Offences Act. That's what the lawmaker had to follow. In the preparation of the law, according to existing legislation, the maximum possible compromise has been reached with regard to average weekly working hours. While it is possible to interfere with the working time of drivers under this law, it is necessary to amend the labour relationship law in advance, which can only be rectified when agreement has been reached between all the social partners. In the event of such an agreement and amendments to the Labour Relations Act, the drafter may amend this law accordingly. It also follows from the law that the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia must grant public authorisation to the card issuer no later than seven months after the entry into force of this law. The granting of public authority to the card issuer is a condition for the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce a digital tachograph. The deadline for the introduction of digital tachographs in EU Member States is 1 January 2006. The main objective of the introduction of digital tachographs is to increase road safety and ensure fair competition in road transport. It follows from all this that the adoption of the law is very necessary, so we propose to the national assembly that the law be adopted in the re-voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. On behalf of the SDS, Mr Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u139	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, for the third time, we are faced with the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The truth is loving about some kind of technical law, and it is interesting that he had such a strong emphasis on that day. The veto voted by the Council of State stems mainly from disagreement with provisions which otherwise represent a very small part of the law. It is a specific regulation of the working time of mobile workers in Article 4. 5, 6, 7, and 8, respectively, in five articles, and the law contains 46 articles. According to the State Council, as we have heard here today, mobile workers, i.e. drivers employed by employers established in the Republic of Slovenia, will do, over a period of six months, approximately 300 working hours less than their colleagues in other countries of the European Union. This should undermine the competitiveness of our Slovenian carriers. This claim is not, however, in our opinion, an extremely narrow view of the proposed veto, since it is limited to only a small part of the law that the legislator has regulated in accordance with or will be regulated in accordance with the provisions of our acquis, in particular in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and in compliance with the Regulation and Directives of the European Union. In our opinion, too, it is not possible to ignore or neglect the many other content that, as you have heard, Mr Minister has just spoken about. The implementation of this law is also important and is somehow linked to the period from 1 January 2006, so I think there are sufficient reasons for this law to be adopted. Otherwise, this requirement of the Council of State is contradictory or contrary to itself, since the rejection of the law would mean preserving the existing situation, which is, for employers whose interests the applicant refers to, in other words, significantly worse than the one proposed and which is in line with the law before us. All of this and the reasons given in the general debate on the law, and in particular the fact that the proposed solutions in some way strike a balance between the interests of employers, the interests of workers, strengthen us in the conviction that this law is necessary to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Geza Juban has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Chairman. It also requires the Council of State to re-decision on the law on working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport to demonstrate the complexity of this law. The law introduces two directives into the Slovenian legal order and establishes competent authorities or holders of public powers and fines for the implementation of two Council regulations. As we know, the transposition of regulations into the Slovenian legal order is not possible and the directives regulate the areas of working time differently from our labour law, so the law is difficult to understand and may be poorly transparent despite the efforts of the proposer and the efforts of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. One of the fundamental principles of the rule of law is also the comprehensibility of legal rules. The legal provision must not only be understood by officials of the Ministry and legal professionals who have participated in its creation but must also be comprehensible to the user. However, the fact that the principle of the understanding of the right rules has been neglected in this specific alignment of the Slovenian acquis with the EU acquis shows that law enforcement will be necessary. Since we will have to regulate some other areas in a detailed way in the future, we see a challenge in the parliamentary club for Slovenian legal science. At the parliamentary club, we raised some issues in the process of adopting this law regarding the impact of solutions on the competitiveness of Slovenian road transport and the issue of applicable social legislation in road transport in countries from which competition comes to our road transport. The competition issue was also raised by representatives of the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia and also the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian road transport industry as one of the arguments for re-decision in your request, please also refer to the State Council. At the parliamentary club, we accept the interpretation of legal experts that it is "lex specialis" that the law on working relationships, whose working time rules are more favourable than special rules, will not apply and that these specific rules must also apply in our country, which must be the same in all EU Member States. In doing so, it should be noted once again, as is the case in Austria, where drivers still drive 56 hours per week at the request of employers, taking into account the reference period of 12 months, and that the procedure for transposition of the Directive into its legal order has not yet been initiated. The law under consideration is part of social legislation in road transport, which, together with transport safety, efficient economic care and environmental protection, is a red thread of European transport policy. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the law will also improve transport safety through an extensive chapter on digital tachographs. We also estimate that legal experts, co-authors of the law at the second-reading meeting of the home working body have already answered the questions raised by the State Council, so we do not oppose the final adoption of the law on working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and on recorded equipment in road transport. However, we want future texts that will similarly regulate a particular area to be more understandable and more transparent, which, as we have already pointed out, must also be a challenge for our legal science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, distinguished Mr President of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! In the New Slovenia Group, we understand that the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 8th regular meeting on 15 July this year, brings to Slovenia the requirements of the Directives, inter alia, regarding working hours, and establishes competent authorities or holders of public authority to implement the Council Regulation concerning driving times and tachographs. The law applies to mobile workers employed in undertakings established in a Member State of the European Community when they carry out road transport activities covered by Council Regulation 3821/85 of 20 December 1985 on tachograph, which is a familiar road traffic control device for all of us. It is understandable, however, that the law applies to mobile workers only when they work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Mobile workers are subject to different definitions of working time or, for example, night work under this law, as well as different restrictions on working time and different lay-offs. Only certain areas of working time for mobile workers have been taken into the legal order of Slovenia, which is regulated in more detail by the law, and this, of course, is different from the Labour Relations Act. The law itself will have no other consequences, but it is true that the implementation of EU rules on the working time of mobile workers and on digital tachographs will impose certain obligations on carriers and drivers. These obligations with regard to analogue tachographs so far, and the gradual introduction of digital tachographs will impose new obligations with regard to vehicle equipment and record-keeping, as well as with regard to the equipment of drivers with so-called smart cards. On 1 July, the European Commission Transport Working Group set a deadline for the introduction of digital tachographs, which is 1 January 2006. According to the text of the law, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads must grant public authorisation to the issuer of abbreviations no later than seven months after the entry into force of the law. This is a condition for the readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to implement digital tachographs. Also because of this and because of the above-mentioned understanding of the law, the New Slovenia Group will today re-support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr Franz Kangler, SLS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the parliamentary group, we will support the decision of the parent working committee, the Transport Committee, as adopted today by the Committee. The views of the National Council of the Slovenian People's Party Group have not been convinced. We are of the opinion that each individual has the right to assess constitutionality on the individual provisions of that law. The Arumens of the State Council, that the individual provisions of the Law on Working Time, on the mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport are not in accordance with Article 102 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because all articles and provisions of the Act on average citizens must be legible and clear in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. We are opinions, everyone has the right to make an individual provision or an individual article in the opinion of the Constitution. It is also important to emphasise that this law was created on the basis of two directives. It is true that some of the dictions are so mentioned that the maximum weekly driving time can be limited to certain segments, but it is necessary to stress that today, by government representatives, we have been informed that the government is preparing a change in labour law, where it will be necessary to exempt mainly mobile workers and in the labour law to fix and enable normal work for mobile workers, as some of the findings of the State Council today in the national assembly have shown. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will once again support the draft law and at the same time support the proposal for a decision of the national working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. A representative of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Friend, also has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President of the Council. So when we talk about re-decision on the law on working time and compulsory rest, we need to see this law more comprehensively. I would like to point out that, in fact, we have decided that it is right for the law to remain in force as it is. In doing so, we were led by the fact that the Labour Relations Act clearly states how many working hours a week a worker should have done, and of course, if we are also looking at the facts previously told, that with some road safety law we have already raised actual axle pressure, we are saying that we have allowed more loading of trucks on the road and reduced the penalties for this load to be higher and that the traffic flow will actually be higher. And the main argument made by the Council rapporteur that the employer will now have to employ more workers is in place. Why not? Why should we not have more jobs in this area, in this transport segment and thus greater road safety. I have already said today that we lose for one class of children in traffic accidents, and it is certainly necessary to do everything possible to increase road safety, because we know that, in particular, on the transport of heavy transit goods on state roads, there is a truck traffic of 80% of all traffic made and on motorways where the accident is slightly less, 20%. The cargo goes to the state roads because that's how motorists avoid paying the toll. And it's the state roads that are slightly neglected and less orderly, so this accident factor can also be because roads aren't good, so much bigger. And that is why we need more judicious drivers, more rest the drivers, that if we can't actually curatively deal with the consequences so that we can at least have a preventive impact on greater traffic safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Victory Jelinčič. He's quitting. Mr Branko Marinic, SDS. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. There is certainly something to say again about this law in order to make it easier for Members and Members to re-adopt the law on working time and the mandatory rest of mobile workers. When I was in the Assembly Halls today, journalists sitting at the same table were talking about who the mobile workers were. I am sure that we know that this is about workers who are, of course, mobile and behind the wheel, but obviously some require some additional clarifications. In short, it is for drivers who are either employed by independent entrepreneurs or by other working organisations. However, the law improves the social status of mobile workers, which is one advantage. It also improves the economic status of employers and in the third sense, in the sense of recording equipment in road transport, but it is a matter of harmonisation with European legislation. So I believe that today we will be able to re-elect the law on working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Boyan Rugelj. He's quitting. I give the floor to Mr Janez Sušnik, representative of the State Council. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would not appeal to Members and Members that the profession we are talking about is very important. In fact, this transport does 5% of the gross social product annually, which is not small. Therefore, of course, there are some things that are open and that have not been consolidated between the Chamber of Commerce and the other interlocutors, I do not think this is right. Let's talk more, let's get to coordination, and then there'll be no such thing. It is to me, as a representative of the Council of State, that I am in fact the only one who substantiates this law that it is not good enough. In fact, that's how the state council concluded. The second question is my opinion, which I have also, because I have worked in the profession for many years, so I know it well and I would suggest that there are still some shortcomings. We do not know, for the European Regulation speaks of the possibilities of individual exceptions. And now we don't know where the vehicles belong from agriculture, gardening, forestry, utilities and so on. And a practical example - in Europe, according to the minimum standard of Directive 2002/15, the driver could drive and other public within six months 1248 hours. In Slovenia, of course, 300 less. That means 20%. What in the money for the additional burden of transport is worth 16.5 billion SIT, there is a lot of money here. When he spoke to the gentleman, I think that the Friend, on the subject of additional employment - this profession no longer allows for additional burdens because the situation is zero. The economic eligibility of transport is far below the level for which we are all fighting together. The travel speed in international traffic is 60 km/h. This may, according to the possibility of driving over a period of six months, reduce the kilometre by 18 thousand 600 km per vehicle. Ladies and Members of Parliament, I think it is necessary to think carefully and respect the expertise. It is simply necessary to do what is done with carriers, and I am firmly convinced that if we find a consensus with them, the matter will be much easier than otherwise because you know how the matter is directed towards them. It therefore proposes that we once again discuss and justify the issue of the possibility of Article 2 of the Labour Relations Act - it is a procedure - and to initiate the procedure for the adoption of the special special law we are talking about today, on the working time of mobile workers, in which specific provisions will be clearly defined as regards the working time of mobile workers within the meaning of the minimum standard of EU Directive 2002/15. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u154	A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u156	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u157	Dear President, he mentioned me. I would like to say that it is strange if he has any objection to hiring new people to relieve drivers in the current working relationship. It's nonsense. These people are the cause of traffic accidents on our roads. And that's why we need to find a solution here because we have road infrastructure on state roads as bad as we have - more prudent drivers. And that's what this law rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Does the government want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I owe it to you to answer the question where the exceptions are. The exceptions are laid down in Article 13 of Regulation 3820/85, which deals with the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet come to an end, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I guess not. This concludes the debate. The assembly will decide on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting and will do so today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. With that, I'm breaking this agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume at exactly 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u161	We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will guide on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 28.7.2005 which you received on the bench. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. And there must be an orange light on the right hand side of the card, in which case the vote can be carried out. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3, to Article 3, we have two amendments tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We vote on the first amendment to Article 3. We're voting. Voting adjourned. 59 present, in favour of 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 3. We're voting. 60 Members and Members of Parliament voted for 14 to 45. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the amendment tabled has not been adopted. We continue to decide on Article 4 - the Group of Social Democrats. We vote on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting. There were 60 votes in favour and 60 votes in favour, 11 in favour, 45 in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the amendment to Article 4 has not been adopted. I am putting to the vote the first amendment to Article 8 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. I find that from 60 Members, 13 votes to 45. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 8 has not been adopted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 8. We're voting. 14 Members and Members voted in favour, against 44, 61 present. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the third amendment to Article 8 of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. 61 Members present. It's 49 votes against 11. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are voting on Article 13, the amendment to Article 13 proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. The 60 Members and Members present voted 15 against 39 Members. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the amendment to Article 13 has not been adopted. We are voting on the amendments to Article 19. The first amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 14 Members and Members voted in favour, against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 19. We're voting. Of the 59 Members and Members present, 9 to 47 voted in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 19 has not been adopted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, there was one. I am re-completing the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill proposal and I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendment to Article 8 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Please. Procedural question, Mrs. Pecanova? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u162	I'm sorry, ma'am, but now I'm -- this is exactly the topic we were talking about. Article 18 adopted an amendment to the Committee, which I tabled, but was prepared by the Slovenian consumer association and, of course, the text of Article 18 ascribed one part of the text and is now poorly written. And now that we are fully legislating, we will confirm in this article the text incorrectly written so that we ask that this - Mr Jazbec has also submitted this and it is probably important to note that, when we vote on the law, we are voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much for your warning. Mr Jazbec, you may also explain this as Vice-President of the Committee who concluded this yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Respectable. In fact, the error in the footnote has occurred and I think there is already a written correction in reproduction, which will also remedy this error. However, I do not think that the procedure for the third procedure under the Rules of Procedure is immediate and that this can still be adopted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u165	I think you're about to receive this correction on the bench. Do you have it? Then I'll read it again. "In the amended proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance - an urgent procedure - the text 'and the date of issue of consent' shall be added in the third sentence of Article 18(5). This is another correction you don't have on the bench yet. We will also vote on such an updated or amended text of the law. What I just read. Do you accept? Yeah. Thank you very much. I ask once again whether the applicants intend to table an amendment to Article 8? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. Procedural question, please, Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u166	Before making a decision, I request a 10-minute recess for the consultation of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u167	Does anyone want to explain his voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then I agree with the Member's request and interrupt the meeting in 10 minutes. We continue the meeting at 3:23 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u168	We're moving on to a decision on the law. I ask the representative of the SLS Group, does he want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will, as I said in the introduction to the presentation of the views of the Group, support the law. On this we have tested many years before this law came. But I'm surprised at the way we work in the coalition, but that doesn't make it binding for us to do what we've done for so long on this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We're voting. Voting adjourned. There were 56 votes in favour and 56 votes in favour. For 56, against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the second item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia DARS to rent credits and issue debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 360 million, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. We're voting. There were 58 votes in favour and 58 votes in favour. All in favor, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for DARS liabilities under loans and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia of EUR 360 million, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u171	With regard to this law, of course, on my behalf, I will say that I cannot support this law. I cannot support this law because it is no problem that the dars take the credit, but that the Republic of Slovenia gives the guarantee to the dars to rent the loans, and it becomes controversial after we have reduced the funds to the dars in this National Assembly at the time of the 2005 budget rebalancing and when it is not known, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u172	I'd like to ask for peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u173	Of course, the ruling coalition has the problem of closing the 2006 and 2007 budget negotiations, as far as the DARS will receive in the 2006 and 2007 budget by the state budget. [[...]] If DARS receives less than 37 billion in 2006 and 2007, then there will be a problem for DARS to fulfil its obligations under the National Programme. Since no information has been provided at both the meeting of the Finance Committee and the debate, I myself, as President of the Committee on Budgetary Control, will convene a meeting of the Commission where we will deal with this, and I hope that the government will come up with such a draft budget for 2006 and 2007 to ensure that these guarantees can not be renewed. As long as it's not known, I can't support this marriage on my own. That's why I'm going to hold on to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. I myself will be happy to support the proposal for a guarantee law, because I myself assess the need to provide funds for the construction of motorways. As I come from Dolenjska and New Town, where we have been neglected in the past in the construction of motorways, I myself assess that this money is urgently needed. Many companies, strong companies need highway connections. I believe that this will make a significant contribution to their development. As I mentioned, I am happy to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. Mr. Stab, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will vote on the DARS guarantee, but with the following expectations: that motorways be built as soon as possible. It is unacceptable that Slovenia had at least 30 years of backlog in Europe at the time of its independence and that not all major motorways in Slovenia have yet been built. Depending on the options, the completion of construction should be substantially accelerated. There are major renewals and extensions of the current directions and construction of complementary routes ahead of us. At the same time, we must not forget the completely neglected public transport, especially the use of railways. Other countries are intensively building a third generation of super-fast railways, and our railways are not even able to operate normally, which is partly understandable because of the completely inadequate railway infrastructure, which is not even built on some sections. For example, the main route Ljubljana-Jesenice, the route to Luka Koper are still single, the airport Brnik has no railway connection. Ljubljana, as its capital, has only a state-of-the-art and subsidised bus public transport. I look forward to speeding up the implementation of the national programme of motorways, as well as faster construction of connecting fast and main roads and other state roads, in particular economically and environmentally sound railways. I expect the introduction of a modern toll system with a toll system based on the actual distance transported and proportionate to the benefits obtained or the damage caused to the use of motorways. The current ABC system has completely missed its purpose and is relatively expensive and, despite the professional recommendations, has not yet been replaced with a simpler one. I've got quite a few data points to a lot of possibilities. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Stebe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u180	Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Let me once again say what we have already heard today, as our party President, Victory Jelinčič Tribal, has said, that in the Slovenian National Party we support in particular the quality and rapid development of infrastructure that is necessary and necessary for the further economic development of this country. Yesterday, too, it was not for free that we sat on the Committee on Finance, where, on most of the questions raised, representatives of the Ministry of Transport, less for finance, made it clear and clear that the financial projection provided for the coverage of this credit from tolls. The government has assured it, the government guarantees it, it has a projection, and we have to believe any government. And I think that today we should talk about how and what, to what extent the state budget will or will not be burdened - no, we must not, because we received a guarantee yesterday that after the toll collection projection according to the number of traffic, the toll will cover the loan. Of course, there's another security guard back here who can use it if he wants it to change the way he picks up the tolls. But then there might be a problem, but we can't talk about what happens today when it does. Today we must step together and say, we, in particular, must build up these roads and the amounts that are listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u183	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Mr Minister. I will vote for the development of the highway network in Slovenia to continue. But I do know that all these obligations will be covered by tolls. We pay roads more than not all taxpayers, rare are those that don't. And here I think this case is very unfair. Those who destroy most of them pay proportionally at least. Compared to the world, for example, motorists pay very little, half less, quarter less or even no, and also part of personal traffic is pushed in this direction, even in the cities themselves not only on motorways. It's the other way around. This is a huge injustice, if we look at the axle loads, the loads of the highway, then you will soon find that the biggest destroyers and even in this way the greatest damage, the most costs cause just traffic, which is in some way transitive, not only on highways, but also elsewhere, and this should be fixed and modified as soon as possible. And I hope this government will do it. For the time being, Slovenians need a highway cross, and I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I would like to say that in New Slovenia we will support the guarantee law for the obligations of the DARS, of course not with great pleasure, especially in the matter of expensive construction in the Republic of Slovenia. We have also had comments on this as an opposition, and we hope that there will also be a shift in this direction in the future. However, as far as the current situation is concerned, sometimes in the past some section of the motorway could be built with a concession, unfortunately this is not the case, but something began to be built on all sections, so that is no longer possible today. The fact is that the motorways of Slovenia should start building or having them built 30 years ago, not today. Today it is necessary to finish the Slovenian road cross as soon as possible. And let me also say that the completion of the road in Pomur did not actually promise us, but that the previous government had promised it and that, of course, this promise must be fulfilled in some way. However, of course, we have also unanimously supported the national programme for the construction of motorways in this National Assembly, so that I find this argument difficult to understand by my colleague, Cvicle, who is here today. So we'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would not agree to building cheap roads in Slovenia, cheap. This is what the Croats do and after two years it is necessary to cover the road in new or similar ways. Their tunnels leave, break, cross long and similar. It is necessary to build quality and, if we want to build quality, we need to make a few moves at the very beginning, not go to similar things as we saw in the construction of the tunnel under the Trojans, when gentlemen, due to the political kitchens of two, then leading parties, brought in Italians for a slightly lower price, and the final price was substantial, significantly higher than the second price offered, which the company actually had to take over the construction of the tunnel and complete what the Italians could not. Therefore, I say that it is necessary to consider and not take the cheapest offers, because usually the cheapest offers prove to be the most expensive. They need to be considered and acted wisely. I am pleased, however, with the environmental awareness of some colleagues from the former ruling structure or party, as the Slovenian National Party has proposed three times in the National Assembly that large trucks should be loaded onto the train and transported by rail through Slovenia. Now, some of the reflections in this direction are, I hope that this ecological consciousness will prevail and that things will also start to turn in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support this law for the reason that the construction of the foothills of the highway will be accelerated. Today we can blame ourselves here, whose priorities were on the one hand and on the other, Dolenjska was certainly not fed. For the Maribor-Beltinci section we have already accepted the guarantee or guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia to rent the loan, the section from the Beltinians to the Hungarian border or to Lendava, and this part is now covered by this part of the guarantee. At the same time, I would say that the motorway is the only one, and the only solution for emerging traffic through Slovenia, because the stories about moving freight on the railways are illusory, because at the time, on the day we load 100 trucks on the railways, a thousand of them are waiting in a row that will never be able to load on the railway and pass through Slovenia. So the highway is the only solution that the previous government has really promised to build by 2008, and the current government is not continuing, but this government has also promised to build it, and I hope that the two governments will build it together by the end of 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask, let's stick to the subject of marriage. Mr. Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, we will support the law, and I am disturbed by the small sighting of some when they say that it is not necessarily harder to divert transit cargo to the railway. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental threat will certainly be lower, and the safety of road users will certainly be greater. So--it's an emergency. It's sad that some people say that, look around the world a little bit, and you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u192	I warned you, please, not the controversy. Thank you very much. I'm guessing there's no one else who would like to explain their vote, so we're voting on the law. We're voting. I note that there were 60 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - re-decision on the law on amendments to the law on the State Council. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the RS Constitution, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Mr. Gantar, on behalf of the Group of Members in particular? Here you go. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I have already explained how Members and Members will vote in their conscience. I would like to point out myself that I intend to vote against the adoption of laws for two reasons. First, therefore and for reasons of political and legal hygiene. The adoption of laws, which, in other words, in other words, say what we are changing, writes, is legally unnecessary and I think that, of course, it is harmful and misleading in the long term. The second reason is more political and is related to the fact that the State Council already has a distorted legitimacy, that it actually fails to do so - I did not say that it is, I do not say that this is the purpose of the applicants - in fact distorts and undermines the symbolic role of the President and the Council of State, which is not good in the situation in which the State Council is. I will therefore vote against the adoption of the law myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-11.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is closed. I note that 58 Members and Members voted. For 51, against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the re-decision on the law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. The vote is closed. I note that 59 Members and Members voted. For 50, against 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. All together, I want a nice rest and take care of your health.
