ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats so we can get started. I am opening the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the Member and Members: Mag. Milan Cvikl, Mr. Ferry Horvat, Mr. Miran Jerič, mag. Vasja Klavora from 4.30 p.m. on, Mr Anton Kokalj, Dr Marko Pavliha, Mrs Breda Pecan until 2.30 p.m., Mr Milan Petek, Mr Alojz Posedel, Mr Jakob Preseknik for the beginning of the meeting, Mr Vili Rezman and Dr Mitja Slavinec. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, whom I welcome very much. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Please check your cards. Mr. Skolcz would like to give an explanation for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u2	Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I would like to propose the withdrawal of item 2 of the agenda, the law on RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u3	Mr Školč, all proposals for extension or withdrawal shall be made in writing and by 12 noon of the previous day. Given that it is an extraordinary meeting, a written proposal could also be tabled today until the beginning of the meeting. I have not received such a proposal. Anyone else want a word? Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u4	Mr President, I don't know where this written proposal is going, but it was certainly the decision of the Member Club today, because it was not possible to make that decision before. I suggest you wait until you have a written proposal from the office.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u5	I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. We'll continue at 10:10.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u6	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. I ask the representative of the LDS whether a written proposal is expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u7	I'd say if they did what we agreed that this proposal was in your office.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u8	Thank you. But I must say, even if we get a written proposal on the table, I will not put it to the vote, because an extraordinary meeting with the proposed agenda was requested by a group of Members - requested, not proposed. I didn't propose an extraordinary session where I could change my mind and the like. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Article 85 of the Constitution, an extraordinary meeting is to be held when requested by the President of the Republic or at least a quarter of the Members. This has happened because of this proposal I cannot put to the vote. Sorry, we haven't voted on the agenda yet. Excuse me! We are therefore moving on to a vote on the agenda. Once again, I propose to the assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference. Mr. Skull, would you like to explain your voice? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr President, our parliamentary group will vote against the adoption of the agenda for reasons that we do not see the need to justify an extremely important law, such as the Law on Public Radio Television. In this haste we also see the transmission of proposals for both law and extraordinary meetings. What's all the fuss? At the same time, they promise that a normal debate will be possible. This promise has been broken at this point. There is a promise in the air that there will be a public presentation of opinions. What will be the purpose of public presentation of opinions if we decide today whether or not the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. And for this reason, deciding on our proposal, which, in fact, aimed at proposing this extraordinary meeting, would allow, in fact, as they promise and as we wish and as the entire democratic public wants, this law only to follow normal procedures. With this procedural trick, these promises are broken and the point that ultimately aims to sustain television begins. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Skull. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 42 to 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it that the agenda of the 8th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE KINGDOM OF BULGARIA, THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA, THE REPUBLIC OF FRENCH, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN, THE REPUBLIC OF FRENCH REPUBLIC, THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE REPUBLIC OF FRENCH, THE REPUBLIC OF CIPERA, THE REPUBLIC OF LATIA, THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA, THE UNITED STATES OF LUXEMBOURG The proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Dr Dimitri Ruple, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u11	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! On 17 December 2004, the European Council formally concluded the negotiating process with Bulgaria and Romania, providing that an accession treaty with these two countries will be signed in April 2005, this month. This concludes the latest enlargement of the European Union so far, of which Slovenia is also a part. Europe has thus responded to democratic changes in the East and has opened the door to Central and Eastern European countries. The focus of the European Union is now on the Western Balkan countries, where stabilisation and democratisation processes are under way. You are well aware that Slovenia has repeatedly expressed its support for candidates, both Croatia and later Serbia and Montenegro and other countries in this area. The Council of the European Union shall act unanimously on the admission of a candidate country to membership of the European Union after consulting the Commission and following the consent of the European Parliament, which shall have the right of veto in respect of the enlargement of the European Union. On 22 February this year, the Commission gave a positive opinion on Bulgaria and Romania's requests for accession to the European Union. At its plenary session last week, the European Parliament decided on this issue and supported the accession of both countries to the European Union. The General and Foreign Affairs Council will decide on the admission of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union next week on Monday 25 April. Following the meeting, it is envisaged that an accession treaty will be signed, followed by ratifications in the national parliaments of the Member States and in both acceding countries. The structure of the Accession Treaty is similar to that of the last ten new Member States. However, an important novelty is that it will include an additional security clause on the possibility of postponement of accession, in the event that the European Commission, in its report on monitoring the implementation of Bulgaria's or Romania's obligations in autumn 2005, finds clearly the serious unwillingness of Bulgaria or Romania to accept all membership obligations from 1 January 2007. Member States may then, on the basis of a recommendation from the European Commission, unanimously decide to postpone Bulgaria or Romania's accession to the European Union for a year, as indicated on 1 January 2008. The areas in which the state needs to improve are justice and home affairs, and in addition to this, Romania has an area of competition and the environment. Following the signing of the Accession Treaty, the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania will be granted the status of the acceding country, under which they may participate as observers in all decision-making processes but without the right to vote. From the point of view of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, the process of ratification of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe under way is also relevant. You can monitor for yourself the lively debates that are taking place in France at the moment. If the ratification process of the Constitutional Treaty is successful, it is expected to enter into force on 1 November 2006, just before the accession of Romania and Bulgaria. The implementation of the Constitutional Treaty will change the form of an accession treaty. The Constitutional Treaty constitutes the merging of all primary legislation into a single text, which means that all accession treaties will be transformed into accession protocols to be added to the Constitutional Treaty. Dear colleagues! The entry of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union will undoubtedly have some impact and consequences on the Slovenian budget. However, a common financial impact cannot be stated today because negotiations on the next financial perspective have not yet been concluded. Within the framework of the Act of Accession, which forms an integral part of the Accession Treaty, only individual allocations are determined, as they are said to be. Bulgaria will receive €210 million for closing Kozody nuclear power plant [[?]] However, both countries will receive a cash flow allowance and aid for the establishment of a Schengen border totalling EUR 881 million in the same way as in the case of the last enlargement. Given that Slovenia's share of payments to the European Union budget is 0.28%, this means that Slovenia will participate with a good EUR 3 million in financing these transitional arrangements. The Act of Accession also interferes with the next financial perspective, namely allocations for both countries for the first three years for structural measures, €2.3 billion for Bulgaria and €5.9 billion for Romania, then €3 billion for rural development. The negotiations on the new financial perspective are, of course, still under way, and the final assessment of the impact of both countries' entry into the European Union cannot be foreseen, at least not precisely. At this point, I would like to briefly clarify the issue of a joint declaration agreed upon at the request of the European Parliament. In view of the fact that the Accession Treaty contains those figures which I referred to as financial assistance from the Union to Bulgaria and Romania in order to fulfil some of the obligations entered into by the Treaty, the European Parliament, prior to the vote on the admission of both candidate countries to the European Union, requested a joint declaration binding Parliament, the Council and the Commission, a declaration on the financial implications of Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the European Union. Frankly, the declaration has no direct practical impact, as it highlights the existing relationship between the European Union institutions in the area of accounting, where they have the power to take decisions both by the Council and by the European Parliament. Furthermore, or when I conclude this introduction, I would just like to shed some light on the question of the free movement of labour after the entry of both countries into the European Union. This issue was raised at a joint meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Following the entry of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union, there will be a 7-year flexible transition period in the area of free movement of labour, first two years, then three years and at the end of two years. This means that the labour market for citizens from the two countries in the other 25 Member States, including Slovenia, will be closed during the first two years after entry and each Member State may decide whether or not to liberalise access to its labour market for the citizens of the two countries by entering the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union. As we know, it was similar when we entered the European Union, it was happening to us, and of course it is still happening to us at this point, and of course we all hope that the previous period for our country will be concluded as soon as possible. You can imagine the Bulgarians and Romanians want the same thing. If, after two years, the Member State does not inform the Commission that it will continue the transitional period for a further three years, Union legislation in this field shall enter into force. After five years, however, a Member State may require a transitional period of two more years only in the event of serious disturbances in its labour market. With regard to the question of possible liberalisation of access to the Slovenian labour market for the citizens of Bulgaria and Romania, of course, it will be necessary to hold an appropriate debate in the future and to assess whether, given the situation in the Slovenian labour market and the economic indicators, it was necessary to make a different decision from the transitional period adopted in the Accession Treaty. Finally, I would like to mention bilateral relations between Slovenia and the Republic of Bulgaria or Romania. We consider these relations to be very good, unburdened on open political and other issues. There is an intensive political dialogue at the highest level between countries, we are joined by common objectives and interests, particularly expressed within the European Union and the NATO Union, as well as a good knowledge of the Western Balkans and South-Eastern Europe region and the desire to stabilise and democratise the area. We have also concluded all the most important agreements with both countries. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Bulgaria and Romania are not among Slovenia's most important external trading partners, but represent an important potential economic partner. The Bulgarian and Romanian markets are also strategically important for Slovenia from the point of view of Slovenian investments abroad, where the interest of the Slovenian economy in investment in these two countries is growing year after year. The accession of both countries to the Union will have a positive impact on the conditions of trade between Slovenia and those of the two countries, as trade will be fully liberalised and the simplification of formalities on the arrival of goods across borders will also have a positive impact. Dear Members! I propose that the National Assembly support the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union and, in this regard, the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister Dimitri Ruple. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the draft position was addressed by the EU Affairs Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the EU Affairs Committee, Mr Bogdan Barovic, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! Good day to you. At its 10th meeting on 20 April, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the RS National Assembly, the Committee on European Affairs considered a proposal for a position of the RS on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union. The signing of the Accession Treaty for both countries is expected to take place at the end of the European Union General and Foreign Affairs Council meeting on 25 April. However, since in this case it is a matter of amending the Treaties on which the Union is founded, the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will have to adopt a position before deciding in the institutions of the European Union before 25 April, in accordance with the law on the matter. The Republic of Bulgaria and Romania were applied for membership in 1995. In 1997, they became candidates and formally concluded the European Council Summit in December 2004. Both candidate countries have made significant progress since their application for accession to the European Union, according to the report. This is evidenced by the positive views given by the European Commission on 22 February for accession. Both European Parliament resolutions of 13 April from Strasbourg also testify to this. However, there are several areas where countries do not meet sufficient European standards. As a result, and proof of this, the European Union’s safeguard is also a safeguard which provides that entry for one or both countries can be delayed for a year if the implementation of the accession negotiations in the commitments in question is not carried out according to plans. In particular, Bulgaria has not adopted a new anti-corruption law and has made little effort against organised crime. Romania has some very difficult tasks to perform: reform of the judiciary, ensuring respect for the rule of law, limiting state subsidies, improving environmental care. The debate on the European Union Affairs Committee held at this meeting also focused on such and similar problems. It is said that the enlargement of the European Union is a long-term project that reached the summit on 1 May 2004. It continues to extend to Romania and Bulgaria. The expansion of this still unstable area of South-Eastern Europe will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the further stabilisation and democratisation of the South-Eastern and Western Balkans region, which is in the common interest of the European Union and its members, as well as of the independent countries of the Republic of Slovenia. However, members and members of the European Affairs Committee stressed the impact and impact assessment and had some concerns in the debate, which was very thorough and precise. For example, the environmental aspect, particularly in Romania, was exposed to the issue of transitional periods for the free movement of labour, which Mr Minister said a little earlier. It has also been exposed to the impact that enlargement will have on these two new Member States, on the budget of the European Union and consequently on the change in the status of Slovenia. I'll talk to you later about that. The Committee's colleagues also drew attention to the joint declaration by the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament taken before a decision was taken in the European Parliament at the time of the signing of the accession treaty, which provides that funds for the new Member will be included in the optional expenditure of the European Union budget, which means that the inclusion of Bulgaria and Romania will not have an impact on the distribution of funds provided for in the present and subsequent financial perspective. This is - in a later debate, it will probably prove - a very important issue. The membership of Bulgaria and Romania in the European Union for Slovenia is a further liberalisation of trade, it represents a great potential for our products as well as for the market for direct investment. These were the opinions and opinions of the members of the European Union Affairs Committee. Undoubtedly, the enlargement of the European Union with Bulgaria and Romania brings positive and some negative effects and consequences. However, in its conclusion on the adoption of the position, the debate on the European Union Affairs Committee showed that the enlargement of the Union is a long-term process in the interest of stabilising the area of South-Eastern Europe. Slovenia has been positively identified for this process. Following a discussion with nine votes in favour and without a vote, the European Union Affairs Committee adopted a decision or a proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia: the Republic of Slovenia supports the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union and, in this regard, the signing of a treaty on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Horvat, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Rupel, with his associates. Dear Members and Members! At its 14th urgent meeting, on 20 April 2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, acting as a competent working body, considered, pursuant to Article 154(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft position of the Republic of Slovenia on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU and the signing of the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, the Slovak Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Lithuania, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Kingdom of Malta, the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Romania and the Republic of Bulgaria, and the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively, and the Republic of Bulgaria, at its Member States of Bulgaria, respectively, at its Member States of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will hereinafter call this Treaty the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Law on Cooperation between the Government's National Assembly on EU Affairs, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the material under consideration to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and acceptance. The meeting was held with the EU Affairs Committee. In the introduction, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dr Božo Cerar, presented a proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU and a proposal for a position to sign an accession agreement between the Member States and Bulgaria and Romania. He said that the European Commission gave a positive opinion on Bulgaria and Romania's requests for EU accession on 22 February this year. In addition, at its plenary session on 13 April this year, the European Parliament decided on a request for the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU and supported the accession of the two countries. Dr Božo Cerar stressed that the structure of the treaty is similar to the accession treaty for 10 new members in the last enlargement. An important novelty of the Accession Treaty for Bulgaria and Romania is that it contains an additional security clause on the possibility of postponement of accession. This means that if, in the monitoring report on the implementation of the obligations of Bulgaria and Romania, the European Commission finds that Bulgaria and Romania are obviously unwilling to accept all membership obligations from 1 January 2007, then Member States may, on the basis of a recommendation from the European Commission, unanimously decide that Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the EU should be postponed by one year, i.e. on 1 January 2008. The Secretary of State further clarified two possible scenarios regarding the legal form of Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the European Union, on the basis of whether the Treaty of Constitution for Europe will enter into force on 1 November 2006. In addition, Dr Cerar said that the impact of the accession of both countries to the European Union on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia could not be assessed until an agreement was reached on the next financial perspective. Finally, he explained that although candidate countries are not Slovenia's most powerful external trading partners, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the European Union will have a positive impact on the conditions of trade between the Republic of Slovenia and those of the two countries, as this will fully liberalise trade. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their views and views of individual parliamentary groups on the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the enlargement of the European Union with Bulgaria and Romania. The Secretary of State, Dr. Bozo Cerar, also provided an additional explanation and answered the questions raised. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy, after having concluded the debate with 13 votes in favour and with no objection, adopted the following proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia, which reads as follows: "The Republic of Slovenia supports the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union and in this regard the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union." The Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt its position at its meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, who will speak on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I would like to present the position of the LDS Group of Members. In doing so, I stress that in the LDS Group we are convinced that the transformation of South East Europe into an area of peace, prosperity and stability, based on democratic principles and a high level of respect for human rights, is certainly in the long-term strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This is best achieved by extending the European Union to this very area, and we can therefore welcome the announced admission to full membership of Romania and Bulgaria. Their inclusion in full membership will also offer additional opportunities for our economy, while, of course, we must also be aware of some of the shadowy benefits of this decision. Both countries are far behind the developed work of Europe and the average in the European Union on a hairy national product per capita. In particular, Romania has a high unemployment rate and a range of difficult unresolved social problems, including problems related to a large number of Roma communities, many orphans, the homeless and so on. In this way, these problems will create a very large difference in the level of development and severe social problems, creating an additional burden for the European Union, for its structural funds and later for the labour market. A few years from now, we will certainly have to contribute to the Structural Funds and to overcome the problems facing both Romania and Bulgaria. This forecast entry takes place during a period of significant difficulties and slow development and a high unemployment rate in the largest countries and the oldest Member States of the European Union, which requires even a reduction in the budget of the European Union and consequently a reduction in the structural funds. It is clear, however, that such a political and security assessment has also prevailed that the European Union is ready to accept these two countries. From the point of view of the security assessment, it cannot be overlooked that both Member States are also members of the NATO Alliance, and this fact is also an important link. For both countries, the European Parliament also notes that much remains to be done in the area of power-sharing, in particular as regards ensuring the independence of the judiciary, the independence and independence of the public media, the integration of Roma into society, particularly as regards the inadmissibility of segregation of Roma children in schools, the prevention of corruption, etc. This is of course a major problem and both countries will also need valuable expertise from EU Member States as well as wider. But, as it is said, the transformation of South East Europe into an area of peace, prosperity and stability, based on democratic principles and a high degree of respect for human rights, is certainly in the long-term strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the LDS Group will consider the proposal, which supports the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union and the signing of the Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr Bevk alone will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Slovenia, like all other Member States that were admitted to the European Union on 1 May last year, does not have the moral and political right to express a loud reservation to further enlargement, even though this reservation would be linked to the legitimate interest of the Union in order to consolidate it internally. In addition, Slovenia, like all other Central European countries, has explicitly supported the enlargement process, as well as Romania and Bulgaria at bilateral meetings, before and after integration into the European Union. It is therefore normal for us, as our Slovenian representatives voted in the European Parliament last week, to agree today to sign the accession treaty between Romania and Bulgaria to the European Union. At the same time, allow me, as our representative in the Group of European Social Democrats in the European Parliament, Borut Pahor in the debate on Turkey, to emphasise here today the view that the further enlargement of the European Union without simultaneous internal consolidation can lead to the deadlock of the European Union. We therefore stress that the successful ratification of the Constitution for Europe is a condition for further enlargement. The enlargement of the European Union is a long-term project that reached its summit with the entry of ten members last year and continues with the entry of Romania and Bulgaria. The good readiness of both countries to enter is beneficial both for the country itself and for the entire 25 countries. In the Socialist Group of Members, we support an additional security clause on the possibility of postponement of accession if the European Commission finds that one of the countries does not meet the conditions for admission to membership 1.1.2007. In such a case, Member States may postpone the approach for one year on the recommendation of the European Commission. The Joint Declaration of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and of the European Parliament thus provides that the funds for the new Members will be included in the optional budget spending on which Parliament has a decisive word, even after 2009. This means that the inclusion of Bulgaria and Romania will not have an impact on the distribution of funds provided for in the present and subsequent financial perspective. We are aware that it is difficult to predict the financial consequences of the entry of these two countries into the European Union until an agreement is reached on the next financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 and the net receipt of Bulgaria and Romania from the European Union budget is known. The consequences for Slovenia will certainly be great, especially in the economic field, where trade with both countries and the volume of Slovenian investments is expected to increase. In the resolution on Bulgaria's entry, the European Parliament has already found that Bulgaria has made excellent progress, but has criticised the Bulgarian Parliament because it has not yet adopted the relevant legislation to effectively combat corruption and calls for more decisive action against organised crime. In a similar resolution on Romania, MEPs praised the reforms and enlargement plans adopted by the new government in the area of increasing media freedom, improving the school system and greater Roma integration. Romania will have to do much more to implement reforms in the administration and judiciary, to fight corruption more decisively at the highest levels, to eliminate violence and discrimination against minorities, to improve the situation for patients in psychiatric institutions. It will also have to improve border control, properly implement state aid to businesses and focus more on environmental protection. In particular, enlargement is important because of the stabilisation of the Western Balkans region, as we believe that other countries wishing to join the European Union will also receive motivation and haste with more than the necessary reforms. Europe can only be safe if all European countries are involved in the development, security and stability processes and help to expand their standards in the neighbourhood of future Member States. It is Slovenia that can help these countries to develop as quickly as possible into economically strong and competitive countries. For all of this, and because we believe that as a full member of the European Union, we must not treat the other candidate countries selfishly, but should give them the opportunity to develop themselves in the most developed countries themselves, we will support the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania to the European Union in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr Jožef Horvat will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The New Slovenia Group supports the definition of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union and, in this regard, the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union. The main reasons for support are the following. First time. On 17 December 2004, the European Council formally concluded the negotiating process with Bulgaria and Romania, stipulating that an accession treaty with these countries will be signed on 25 April this year, which particularly pleases Bulgaria as it has a good month of parliamentary elections. Another time. Both countries have demonstrated in the negotiating process that they respect the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, which are principles common to all Member States. Third time. The Treaty of Accession of Bulgaria and Romania contains a safeguard which means the accession of Bulgaria or Romania only on 1 January 2008 and not on 1 January 2007, should the European Commission find in this autumn's report a serious failure to accept all membership obligations. Fourth time. At its plenary session on 13 April this year, the European Parliament decided on a request for the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union and strongly supported the accession of the two countries. Fifth. On the same day, the Committee of Permanent Representatives of the European Union, Coreper, endorsed the proposal for a Council Decision of the European Union on the admission of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union. Six. Ensuring security in this, for example, our part of Europe. The signing of the Accession Treaty with Romania and Bulgaria will take place on Monday 25 April on the occasion of the GAERC meeting, the General and Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels. From the point of view of the Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, the process of ratifying the Treaty of Constitution for Europe, which is ongoing and is being passed through Eurosceptic scenarios in France, is also relevant. If the ratification process of the Constitutional Treaty is successful, it is expected to enter into force on 1 November of the following year, two months before the accession of Bulgaria and Romania. Two scenarios are therefore possible with regard to the legal form of Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the European Union. First scenario. If the Constitutional Treaty does not enter into force before the entry into force of Bulgaria and Romania, their accession will be formally implemented on the basis of a classic accession treaty and will be amended by the entry into force of the Constitutional Treaty into an accession protocol. Second scenario. If the Constitutional Treaty enters into force on 1.1.2007, their accession will be formally implemented by an accession protocol. Whatever the case, if this enlargement process, which we say in New Slovenia, we support, is happy to conclude, the new year 2007 will see some more than 485 million EU citizens. A large family of nations where it is important to be an equal family member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, who will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives of the government and all fellow Members! In connection with the submission of the views of the Republic of Slovenia prior to the signing of the EU accession treaty with the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, we would like to point out in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the Republic of Slovenia was not as long ago in a very similar role or situation as today, both the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania, and when we all wished to join the EU with great effort and constant efforts by all the national authorities for a better perspective of our people in the future. Despite the fact that we also had to sacrifice some of our own identity in order to achieve this goal, a positive decision or action by any EU member was very welcome. In this context, the Slovenian People's Party supports the positive position of the Republic of Slovenia to sign the accession treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania with the EU, which also means continuing the process of democratisation of Europe and strengthening stability in the region. If we were to think a little selfishly, then we could also say that it means the entry of the Republic of Romania and Bulgaria into the EU for some of the positions Slovenia now has in the EU, for us it is not the best action or that some of our positions could get worse. I am thinking, above all, of the possible fact that the Republic of Slovenia will exceed 75% of the average income per capita in the EU after the entry of both candidates, which could undoubtedly undermine our position in the use of European money. And secondly, given the situation in both accessions and especially in the Republic of Romania, it is possible to expect the entry of a much cheaper labour force into the labour market in our Republic and thus poorer opportunities for self-employment, but it is also necessary to say, at least those who are a little closer to monitoring the labour market in us, that the excessive demand for jobs, which Romanian workers already have to a certain extent, is simply not present in domestic job applicants. However, the Republic of Slovenia can fully expect itself, especially in terms of economic development, in particular in the area of trade in goods, also positive options that will be released or made possible after the entry of both countries into the European Union. In addition, the Accession Treaty with both accessions also contains several security mechanisms that reduce some of the serious concerns of individual members of the European Union. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the position of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u25	Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, let me say that the Slovenian National Party is absolutely not opposed to the enlargement of the European Union, so it will be clear at the outset that there would be no such and other discussions. With all our comments made not only on the foreign policy committee but on the European Affairs Committee, we would like to draw attention to what we have already pointed out when the Treaty on European Union is ratified. If the State of the Republic of Slovenia has already become a full and equal Member of the European Union, then it must follow developments in parallel and be critical of events because of itself and its own will. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party has put several critical concerns on the Committee on European Affairs and the Foreign Policy Committee at its meetings, which I hope will be welcomed by the government with us today. Above all, we have stopped where much has been said and not to steal too much time in assessing the impact and consequences of the accession of the Republics, Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union. In this assessment, there is a line that states that the budgetary impact cannot be assessed because the net receipt of Bulgaria and Romania is not yet known. We have warned that it would be good and wise to throw this indent out because it is contrary to itself. The financial implications are clear. Two new Member States and net recipients - and it is right for them to think that way, and it is right for them to be net recipients - to join the European Union. And it is not true that one of the previous interlocutors said that Slovenia was not affected by this association, even though it says here and even though I mentioned it myself in the report. For the truth is that the mathematical calculation, regardless of the year, regardless of the arrangements, is completely simple: the country that reaches up to 75% of the European Union's net average gross social product is the recipient, the one that is over, the net contributor. And it is perfectly logical that if the European Union is joined by rich countries, this percentage will be lower for Slovenia. However, if the European Union is joined, with all right, by poorer countries, this percentage of Slovenia changes to higher. I sincerely hope that at least the conditions for a new financial perspective will be adopted in June. I don't know what our government's last response was, whether we're going to perform as one region or we're going to perform as three regions. I don't know. If not, however, the impact will certainly be very important for the economic development of the Republic of Slovenia, the impact of the accession of the new members. It's not just Bulgaria and Romania who knows what else can happen. It is a matter of the fact that this country, the Republic of Slovenia, must be aware that it must respect the rules of the game in the European Union and that if it becomes a non-trading country in this calculation, we must be aware that, as a State of the Republic of Slovenia, we will have to be donors in the budget of the European Union, and that is the essence. Come in. It is right that we sincerely hope and see that the State of the Republic of Slovenia will expand its business with two new members due to the many benefits that are to come, from customs duties to last agriculture and more. However, it would be good if the country, we always point out, would also know that, in the future, it will be able to increase its operations mainly in the area of imports and exports by so much and so much. An important area, I agree with that, is the area of investment. However, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the 25 and later the 27 countries of the European Union, which Bulgaria and Romania will not be the only ones to open up the investment market. Again, a warning to our government that it should think about this and that I hope that it is already talking and talking to Bulgaria and Romania as new members of the European Union about the possibility of at least some of the priorities of investing in these two areas. It does not hold claims under the second indent - Impact assessment and consequences that there are no environmental impacts. That's not true. You all know what industry is still in Bulgaria, especially in Romania. You all know, today, I think it's the very day of the earth, you know, that they are leaking into rivers, especially in Romania, that they contain such and different chemicals that no longer belong to a list of chemicals that should be used in such a way that they flow into water or into the earth or in any way. So this claim is not real, and it is right to be aware that, after all, this water comes in one way or another at our end. Above all, I would like to stop on behalf of the Slovenian National Party on the issue of labour flow. The honourable Minister is very much today, I must admit this to him, I must really acknowledge his diplomatic skills, he said very well that the seven-year transitional period of labour should apply to Bulgaria and Romania for all 25 members of the European Union, including Slovenia. In the following words, he said something that might have been overheared - but I did not - that it depends on each individual country, i.e. the country of the Republic of Slovenia, whether this possibility of a transitional period will be taken into account or not. Dear Mr Cerar is with us, but he has made it clear on the Committee that Slovenia will not use the transitional period for the movement of labour. Well, the result is clear. We will not use this transitional period, although we have also heard from the previous speaker that there is no excessive demand for labour which Bulgaria and Romania can offer in Slovenia. To guess whether or not it is is very relative. I estimate that once Slovenia will have to say that, in certain areas, it will also apply a transitional period as an equal member of the European Union for the inflow of labour in certain areas after the analysis of labour needs. I am not specifically speaking Bulgaria, Romania, there are other countries, we have great cases, we already have workers from Romania, and we already have workers from Slovakia from where to find them. However, we still have a large number of, unfortunately, unemployed people in the country of Slovenia, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, our people who do not have a job. For this reason, the Slovenian National Party warns at every event in the European Union that the strategy of this country, the countries of the Republic of Slovenia, for the first time as Slovenia and for the second time as equal members of the 25th, is necessary later by the 27th countries in the European Union. This is important. Finally, I must also say that, personally, given that I have been working in this area for the past five years, I would ask myself, but this moment is not as important, but I must give it out of my mind, that I know that, even before the negotiations in Cosac, before Slovenia was a member, we have sat together as associate members both with our colleagues from Bulgaria and Romania, who have really shown, I must say, there is a great deal of will that they will do what they must and also with Turkey. Turkey was already involved at that time. We know what happened then, but it seems to me that the State of the Republic of Slovenia should also look at the equality of all countries that have the right to participate, regardless of their views as they will or will be formed in the National Assembly. We will not oppose the Slovenian National Party, but at the same time I believe that the same position will be taken by all of us when we also try to accelerate the inclusion of other countries, former countries, former colleagues in our common country, with the same sharp look and with the same attitude towards equality of all countries in the European Union. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will speak on behalf of DeSUS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u27	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania to the European Union for the following reasons and findings. The integration of countries into the European Union has proved to be an effective way to achieve faster development and, on this basis, a better life for people in the Member States in the widest possible sense, taking into account, of course, economic progress, respect for human rights and, of course, freedoms and the development of democratic relations, making the European Union a promised land on European soil, a new "India Koromandy", in which all non-members or states wish to be included. Of course, it is not possible to involve new members if there is no consensus on this issue already included, which at this point also concerns our country's position. On certain concerns and questions as to what the integration of the two less developed countries means for us and for our expectations in the European Union, in our Group of Members, we believe that in the future we do not care how many countries join, because we are already on the threshold of net payers in the budget of the European Union, which will be exceeded at any time, so we have nothing to lose but what we can gain because the internal market will be bigger. Last but not least, it would be selfish to trouble the entry of new candidates, as we expected the consensus already included when we needed it. Since both countries are subject to the same conditions that they must meet in order to join and join the European Union, we will, of course, support our Government's position in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u29	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. We have before us a new enlargement of the European Union, which will actually take place on 1 January 2007 with the accession of the Republic of Romania and Bulgaria. We welcome this enlargement in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This approach is in the final stages of the process of approximation and negotiation with these two countries, which the European Council concluded on 17 February 2004. Bulgaria and Romania will accede to the European Union under the conditions set out in the Treaty of Accession, which includes transitional periods, permanent exemptions and other essential provisions which will affect the situation of the two countries in the European Union. The event is undoubtedly important for the Member States, including Slovenia, which signify amendments to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded, which is necessary for the adoption of new Member States. In this respect, the Treaty of Accession is equivalent to the amendment of the Constitution at national level, as the accession of Bulgaria and Romania will have an important impact on the Union's institutional structure. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, the accession of Romania and Bulgaria is important for Europe and Slovenia. Europe and the European idea are expanding eastward. This shows that the European Union is taking the enlargement process of the European Union seriously, which is particularly important for those countries that are only at the beginning of the approximation process. Romania and Bulgaria are the countries that have suffered the worst consequences of the totalitarian single-party system. They also had the worst dictators, Causescu and Zivkova, so they also needed more time to meet the conditions for accession. With this accession, all the countries of the former Warsaw Pact outside the former Soviet Union will become members of the EU and, of course, three other Baltic States that were previously within the Soviet Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that certain relations within the EU will change slightly at the time of Romania and Bulgaria's entry and that all the effects of entry cannot be assessed in a realistic way at this time. After this accession, Slovenia will certainly cross the criterion of 75% of the average gross domestic product per capita. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that the new financial perspective will be adopted and negotiated during the Luxembourg Presidency, which would mean that this approach will not have any specific budgetary implications. We believe, however, that we would not be consistent representatives of the European idea if at this point we began to change the principle of enlargement, as we have represented them at the time of our approximation. Of course, in the SDS, we agree with the additional security clause on the possibility of postponement of the approach, particularly in the event that the European Commission finds in its report on monitoring the implementation of the obligations of Bulgaria and Romania a manifest unwillingness to accept all obligations of membership. In this regard, it must be said that Romania and Bulgaria must accelerate some reforms in the area of justice and home affairs and that we are fully aware of the many problems these two countries face in the economic field and the high levels of unemployment in both countries. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware of the importance of Romania and Bulgaria's approach to expanding the area of peace and stability in the Western Balkans. The Communication on the European perspective for the Western Balkan countries is very important for stabilising the situation in the region. In fact, the enlargement will leave only an island of countries from the former Yugoslavia and Albania, and we hope that this expansion will give new impetus to their approach to the EU. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we agree that the accession of Romania and Bulgaria will have a positive impact on the conditions of trade between Slovenia and these two countries. Liberalisation of trade in goods will have a positive impact on the opportunity of the Slovenian economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For these reasons, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the signing of the Treaty of Accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Say hello again to everyone from this town. I am also joining the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why I support the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU and, in this regard, the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU. In the negotiating process, the countries have convinced EU negotiators that they meet the conditions of association and that you will be in line with the requirements imposed by the EU. These include: stable institutions that ensure democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities, the functioning market economy and the ability to face competition and market legality within the Union, the ability to assume obligations arising from membership, including efforts to achieve the objectives of the political, economic and monetary Union, the ability of the administrative apparatus to adapt to the European Union. Therefore, the European Union has long been more than just a European economic community. The main themes of European Union citizens have long been no longer steel or coal or similar raw materials. A man is placed at the heart of the European Union or better at the heart of a constitutional treaty for Europe. The present and future Europe embraces the inspiration of a cultural, religious and humanistic heritage, which is not a dead museum remnant, but a living idea that inspires many Europeans today in respect of human dignity. And why wouldn't respect for human dignity in Europe deserve some 30 million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania? "Intensity," in the notes, of course today's parliamentary debates and the relatively poor presence of Members and Members surprise me and leave me disappointed. Today's debate almost forgets that Slovenia's first anniversary of accession to the European Union is here. A long enough period for a thorough analysis and answers to questions about missed opportunities, as well as opportunities used. Membership in the European Union does not mean that everything has been given to us in its own right, as it would also be at odds with natural processes, but it is necessary to fight for prosperity and to work for it again and again every day. Slovenia must also strive for the enlargement processes of the European Union. They will take place before they do, but sooner Slovenia will be at the heart and not at the edge of the European Union, and, of course, all the positive sides of the marginal must benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Would you like a representative of the government, Dr. Bozo Cerar? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Government, for your support, and at the same time for some comments by Mr Barovic. As far as the budget or price valuation of Romania and Bulgaria is concerned, I must point out once again that, at this point, it is indeed very difficult to handle specific figures for a simple reason, as has already been said today, because negotiations on the new financial perspective are still ongoing, are not yet completed. Only that part of our agreed financial package, which covers the first three years of membership of Romania and Bulgaria in the European Union, is known, is said to be in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Everything else, as we say, depends on the outcome of the ongoing negotiations. As regards the comments on the shortcomings of the country or, above all, Romania, where the area of the environment has been particularly exposed, the Commission, as Member States, is still aware of these shortcomings. This was also one of the reasons for today’s security clause or safeguard. If the Commission or the Member States disagree with this proposal, they find that there is a serious backlog in the fulfilment of the commitments made, then there will be a one-year penalty in the form of postponement of the membership of Romania or Bulgaria. With regard to comments on the impact or possible large movement of labour from the two new Member States mentioned above, I must say that I have spoken on the Committee about our experience in the movement of labour from Slovakia, Hungary, Poland and so on, and have mentioned that Slovenia has not highlighted any obstacles here. Also, the results of this first year indicate that there was no excessive surge. For example, Slovakia came to Slovenia 1,440 this year, from Poland 347, says a total of just over 2,000 people. As far as Romania and Bulgaria are concerned, this transitional period has been mentioned and, of course, Slovenia will continuously monitor developments. I agree that there is a fact here that wages in these two countries are much lower than, say, with us. However, as it is said, Slovenia will be awake here. The Ministry of Labour will carry out all necessary analyses on the labour market and will then also decide whether or not and how much will Slovenia implement this transitional period and how much will not. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Cerar. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania to the European Union. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Period of the Day - First defensively proposed law on radiotelevision of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this Act, groups of ten Members with first-signed Mirano Potrč, ten Members with first-signed Jozet Tank and eighteen Members with first-signed Majdo Shirc demanded that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation of the law. Mr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Culture, you have the floor. I'd like to ask if you're going to a pay phone, if possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u35	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. You have before you a proposal for a law on Radiotelevision Slovenia, which is being offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for discussion and reception, because it considers it better than now to be valid. The bill is in line with the competent government services and ministries, and the majority of the comments of the representative RTV Slovenia trade unions, RTV Slovenia management and other interested parties are taken into account literally and meaningfully. In spite of the boisterous media attempts to devalue the bill by some representatives of the Slovenian Society of Journalists and the work of the profession, the Ministry of Culture has not received any specific comments other than their biased notification of the inadequacy of the proposed law to international press bodies. Representatives of political opposition parties did the same, reminding them of similar behaviour in the design of the Slovenian national cultural programme in 2000, which was prepared in record times of three months, while at least 10 years earlier they tried to design such a programme, they did not come forward any longer than the drafts. When the power was replaced, the Slovenian national cultural programme in Parliament was not dealt with, but only after three years, with its resolution on the national cultural programme, which cannot be fully implemented because it is based on such a basis that it cannot provide conditions for its implementation. It has been shown that this professional and political public only accepts its products, while others do not, although the Slovenian National Cultural Programme 2000 was written by top Slovenian creators. The Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, which was born 11 years ago, proved to be poor and inadequate and, despite the fact that it was constantly discussed on its shortcomings, which did not allow for a successful and transparent operation, and even with the attempt to limit journalistic autonomy, there were no significant improvements and no new draft law. In recent years, the situation has even deteriorated so much that the four distinguished members of the Radio Television Council have stepped out of it, as the RTV world, as one of them wrote, is "a cartoon of the original democratic idea of the impact of civil society on its functioning and more the consequence of self-government times" or, as the other wrote, "the world of Radio Television is not really a body of civil society, it does not represent the interests of the public, which pays television and radio, on the contrary, it is only an extended period of political power. There's been a human resources and program poverty. Moreover, the business and organisational RTV Slovenia is an inefficient public institution, since, as stated in the report of the Supervisory Board at the beginning of this year, the structure of the management and management of Radiotelevision Slovenia is still too much, so it would be reasonable to consider possible and enforceable legislative changes that at least at organisational level would make it easier, transparent and efficient to operate RTV Slovenia. The conditions in which RTV Slovenia works today" is the same quote, "do not allow the effective functioning and implementation of all statutory tasks, budgetary funding is insufficient, the organisational structure is complex and makes it impossible to manage effectively, the definition of competence and responsibility for individual areas of work is unclear." End of quote. In addition, we have been able to hear and read that the RTV world has been politically defined, that the idea of the civil society world has been born, that in recent years public television has changed to state television and that maintaining such a state on RTV has been beneficial only to individual politicians and contractual partners and cannot benefit employees in this institution, but at least the entire Slovenian public. By implementing the proposed law, they will provide the basis for substantially more orderly business and organised work in a public institution that will be comparable to Europe. The data will be the basis for a higher-quality institution or for a public institution with a view to working with better programmes of public interest, reflecting social plurality in order to ensure the autonomy and independence of programme workers, and not least in order to be transparent and economically successful. The grave proposal of the law brings about the following important qualitative changes. Firstly, the position of Director-General of RTV Slovenia will be the same as before, but with significantly different powers. The Director-General will bring together both the programme management and the operation of the institution, so the implementation of the law will abolish the post of programme directors and instead of the current directors of radio and television programmes will introduce the posts of radio and television directors whose basic tasks are also the organisation and management of radio and television, in addition to professional work. At the same time, particular emphasis is placed on the responsibility of all those involved in creating RTV Slovenia. This establishes an effectively organised system based on journalistic autonomy and professionalism, and has all those powers that are necessary for a more successful and quality functioning of the public service. Another time. The proposed law represents a comprehensive package and, in accordance with European guidelines, will also legislate the principle of the separation of the public service from those market activities permitted by the RTV Act. Third time. The law provides a legal basis for better design of existing programmes and for the dissemination of a new special national programme aimed at providing quality, continuous and timely information to the public on the functioning of the Slovenian Parliament as the central institution of multilateral parliamentary democracy in the exercise of its constitutional powers. Fourth time. The law on RTV Slovenia makes sense to change the composition and competence of the authorities of RTV Slovenia. The current Council of RTV and the Supervisory Board shall be terminated. The law provides for the organisation of two different bodies with substantially different powers. The RTV Slovenia Programme Council will have programme competences and will primarily represent the interests of the public or users. The Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia will have competences in the field of organisation of work and business and supervision, which is why the role of the government is more stressed, which was a trend towards the last amendment of the current law on RTV Slovenia. Designed solutions also allow a certain degree of interaction between the two authorities in the search for optimum solutions, but competences are distributed so that one authority cannot block the other, except for the provision of agreement on the statute. The law is based on the principle that the aim of public service is exactly what the concept itself says, to perform public service in the best possible way to benefit users. Therefore, in the composition of the bodies of RTV Slovenia, the law derogates from some of the solutions that have been implemented so far and puts users first in the potential candidates for the RTV Council. This will give for the first time a real opportunity for listeners and viewers and viewers of RTV Slovenia programmes to propose directly to their candidates for Radiotelevision Slovenia. The proposal for a law on Radiotelevision Slovenia, which we offer for parliamentary treatment and reception, seems to us to be very good and more appropriate and better than what it is, so that the implementation of this proposal will help to consolidate the general and comprehensive position of the public service Radiotelevision Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u36	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat, who will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we have made a request for a general examination of the law, but of course we did not expect to do it four days after the request was made, especially since the law in the Rapporteur was available only yesterday. And although the ordinary procedure is envisaged for it, the item is included in an extraordinary meeting. Therefore, the question is first of all why the coalition is suddenly so hasty with the adoption of the law that it beats all the standards of democratic procedure and lays down rules of procedure. The question is so much more on the ground because the law was created as a carefully protected secret and it was not possible to know anything about the proposal in March, even though it was a law governing the public service. Even the professional public and even less the public service users did not have the necessary information on the proposal, except that they could participate in its creation. Only a strong response from the interested professional public and housing associations has the initial emergency process changed into a regular one. It is interesting, however, that it is still part of the Government's normative work programme for 2005, which was adopted on 17 February this year, the first submission of the law for consideration by the Government on 28 June this year, and the deadline for adoption on 30 November, of course under the law on amendments and additions to the law on RTV Slovenia. If we judge by the Prime Minister's reply to Monday's parliamentary question raised by Miran Potrč on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, then the Prime Minister of the RTV Act does not consider it an important reform because he said, "Yes, we will look for these alliances in important reforms, but we have not yet proposed to this National Assembly in these few months any important reforms." End of story. If we consider the disqualification of Slovenian residential associations and even international journalistic associations, the most obvious ignorance of the public, which is intended for the public service. This puts into a strange light in the introduction of the law the highlighted role of RTV, which is to say "the remaining central institution of Slovenia and an important factor of social cohesion in the field of culture and information and as such a key element of modern national identity." This is also the case under a coalition contract in which a specific item is dedicated to RTV under the media pluralisation scheme. Of course, from Dr Simoniti's presentation to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, his dissatisfaction with public television and the media in general was clear, as he stressed the demand for pluralisation of the media and an increase in the scope of the information-policy programme on RTV, which is expected to be closer to the percentage that these programmes represent elsewhere, that is between 10 and 14%. At the time, Dr. Simonita felt that there was a dissatisfaction with, I quote, "some pyramidal arrangement of this house with internal responsibilities, with financial problems and not least in content." The bill, however, introduces purely pyramidal leadership in the most consistent way. The director-general at the top of the pyramid brings together the program management and the operation of the institution, appoints the director of radio and television and also appoints and disposes of the responsible editors on a proposal from the director of radio or television. It is therefore crucial who appoints the Director-General. It is proposed that this is the Programme Council, which is chosen by policy, because 21 members of the Programme Council of 29 elects the National Assembly, although 5 of them are proposed by policy and 16 by civil society. This is just a few examples of inconsistencies, violations of democratic procedures and ignorance, and the worst thing about the proposed law is that it means the end of civil administration of the public Radio Television of Slovenia and the transition to state or political. In the Socialist Group of Members, we are convinced that the battle to preserve public broadcasting is a battle to preserve democracy. According to the first director of the BBC, the profession identified accessibility for all social groups, the quality achieved by highly established professional and creative standards, and the independence of the market and policy. If we judge the bill according to these criteria, then we can only regret that the law does not interfere with the current regulation, which may be bad, because RTV should be a carrier when switching from analogue to digital technology if we want to maintain the principle of accessibility for all social groups. Digitalisation is mentioned only in the co-financing of certain projects from the State budget, nor is funding of programmes of particular importance resolved. While the proposal for a law lists everything that national public service programmes must contain. The question is whether the law lays down such organisational and financial frameworks as to make it possible to write it down. However, a special section of quality is the third programme, which the law's proponents are confident will be able to pass on a significant quality improvement and should be financed from TV sales. As far as independence is concerned, this is the one most threatened. The proposal eliminates civil governance of public RTV and the transition to state or political. We do not claim that there is no such designation of worlds as the law stipulates, but the question is whether we need it. However, the election of more than two-thirds of the members of the Programme Council in the National Assembly is certainly an impact of policy on RTV programming, whether we want to recognise it or not. What are the consequences of this for the independence of journalistic work, but it is a rather different question. Of course, this is not just a coincidence. Under the full control of the government, there is also a subscription or contribution, despite the full politicisation of the supervisory board. From the point of view of independence, a major step has therefore been taken both in governance and in financing. And that's all there is to the conclusion. For consideration in the National Assembly, the law must comply with the rules of procedure laid down in the constituents. What the introductory part offers is not acceptable and should be rejected for formal reasons by the National Assembly for failing to comply with business and technical standards. We will not support the bill in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats because we do not accept its concept of the transition of Radio Television of Slovenia from public service to state service. We hope, however, that in view of the experience of the coalition to date, at least in the proposal, it will meet the stated claim: 'The law will have no other consequences'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mrs Marjetka Uhan has the floor, which will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the hall! At the hearing we have a proposal for a law on Radiotelevision Slovenia following a regular procedure, which we advocated in Novi Slovenije. After this general discussion, a public presentation of opinions will be held at an extraordinary session, which will last for more than ten years and then a final version of the law will be prepared. There are therefore far too many debates, because the time for reasoned amendments to the law will be enough. We pay great attention to the proposed law in Novi Slovenija, as well as to all interested public. RTV is an extremely important institution for the Slovenian people, so it is so important that it works in accordance with the laws and European standards. Since it is a public institution, it must work both in the programming and financial interests of taxpayers, contracting authorities. It must inform and educate Slovenians at home and around the world, the national Slovenian minority, the Hungarian and Italian minority in our country, as well as the foreign public. RTV must provide for all these groups of television and radio programmes as well as greater coverage, visibility and visibility than ever before. In addition to the two national programmes, we are introducing a third one which will be aimed at transferring state meetings as well as all parliamentary activities. We support the full transmission of the meetings. Voters have the right and desire to be informed of the legislative authority in its entirety and not only of the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly or of that part of the policy which is interesting for a certain handful of people. The transmission of meetings is possible in the Member States of the European Union and citizens can accompany meetings, of course, if they so wish. Otherwise, this issue should have been resolved long ago, since everyone in this country pays television. This was also the demand of the previous opposition, and we hope that this is what the current opposition expects. We replace the RTV Council with a programming council, which will be 29 members. We will not be able to be politicians and high-ranking civil servants in it, and we are not allowed to do so by this law. It will be trusted to be represented by people who have already demonstrated their knowledge, reputation and achievements in society and will contribute to the reputation and strengthening of Radiotelevision in the Republic of Slovenia or abroad. In the programming board, 16 members will propose listening to a public call. They will be confirmed by the National Assembly. The National Assembly will also approve 5 members appointed by political parties, 3 by RTV, 2 by the President of the Republic proposed by religious communities, one by the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art and one by the Hungarian and Italian national communities. We believe that the Programme Council is broad enough and open to all representatives of civil society, although this is the issue that is the most controversial issue in the public and the appointment of the Programme Council is seen as supporting RTV. We would therefore expect all those who criticise such appointments in the National Assembly to submit their proposal to appoint members of the Programme Council. Let them therefore find the right solution for the representation of civil society. In Novi Slovenija we believe that, as far as RTV is concerned, civil society is in fact every user of this medium. At the same time, the only national assembly is a loved body that can carry out the assembly of the Council. Everything else in our regulation would mean preserving some sort of anomaly that we are witnessing in the present composition of the world of RTV. Therefore, everyone can be proposed for a programming council and we do not know why to arouse a lack of confidence in the National Assembly in advance. The Programme Council will represent the public's interests in the field of the programme and will choose on the basis of a call from the Director-General to be responsible for the programme's professional management and financial operations of the institution. This law constitutes a thorough change in the Director's competence. The Director must be responsible for managing RTV at all levels, which means that he will also have the appropriate powers, in particular in terms of rationalising the operation of RTV. This has not been possible now, and that is probably the reason why some so strongly oppose this law. With the selection of the director of radio and television and the confirmation of the programme editors, the Director-General now has the option of choosing people to ensure the effective functioning of the public service, to ensure the legality of the business and to realise the expectations of public media consumers. The 11-member Supervisory Board shall consist of five members appointed in the National Assembly, four appointed by the Government and two elected members of the public service. It adopts the statute of the institution, besieve over the financial and programme work, oversees the legality of the business. This law gives the supervisory council the role that belongs to it. The Supervisory Board cannot be composed at the request of the press. That would be completely wrong. The State has responsibility for the operation of RTV and thus the responsibility to supervise the operation of the institution. However, it is true that there are also employees' representatives to the extent envisaged, otherwise they should tell how they would form an RTV supervisory authority. With regard to the payment of subscription contributions or a designated contribution for radio and television activities in Nova Slovenije, we propose to pay a contribution on the basis of the actual use of TV and radio receivers and not the rule, if you have an electric counter, that you are also an automatic user of RTV services. We're against self-evident sources of finance. It is necessary to build on the confidence of the users of the public media and to provide their resources with a quality part of the public service and with a statement of actual use. Only quality work, proper content and objectivity is a guarantee that RTV citizens will accept it as their own. Unfortunately, in the past, public television with certain content has been offensive to certain categories of our citizens, and this must not happen again. The proposed law does not directly affect the work of journalists, but we expect them to report impartially and comprehensively, so as not to impose their opinion or promote intolerance. They must respect human personality and dignity as well as all human values. With the implementation of the proposed law in New Slovenia, we expect orderly business, transparent finance, the Director-General's responsibility in the legality of business, as well as professional and professional design of radio programmes for the benefit of listeners, where ethics and humanity will be present in all programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr Michael Prevc will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have signed a request for an extraordinary meeting and we support this general debate on the proposal for a Radio Television Act. We believe that this is undoubtedly a very important law because it regulates the sensitive area of the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens and citizens to unbiased and comprehensive information. I hope that today's general debate will also achieve its purpose. What exactly do we expect from the new RTV law? We expect that the new law will provide the basis for more orderly business and organised work in a public institution in a way that will be comparable to that of Europe. We expect that - and the law should stress in particular the responsibility of all those involved in the creation of Radio Television programmes. We expect the new law to establish an effectively organised system based on journalistic autonomy and professionalism, and of course its summit must have all those powers that are necessary for a more successful and quality functioning of the public institution. In recent times, we have seen violent controversy over the proposal for a Radiotelevision Act. Above all, some journalists and professors from the Faculty of Social Sciences are loud and consider the bill to be a mere crumbling act. In vain, we expect well-intentioned proposals from their mouths. We have a feeling that some have continued to prove that they are more political than professionally considering the law, and they claim that everything on the nationalate has been ideal so far, that there has been no political recruitment and therefore they are also rejecting any change in legislation in this area. I myself participated in the adoption of the report of the Supervisory Board of Slovenia on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, where we were able to see the many irregularities that are taking place on RTV. There will certainly be a completely unregulated workforce policy, as 47% of employees do not have adequate education and 61% have only secondary or lower education. Of the good 2,000 employees, there are 600. The report also made it clear that there is considerable financial turmoil on national television without effective control. However, as with political staffing, we are all well aware and will never forget the frank and brutal participation of national broadcasters in the demolition and discrediting of both Peterlet's and Bajuk's governments, and I do not think that the world has ever seen national broadcasters strike on the day of the parliamentary elections. However, this situation is certainly due to inappropriate legislation in this area. The existing law on RTV, which was adopted in 1994, introduced two-tier decision-making and took away from the Director-General all powers relating to the programmes and brought them to the Director of Radio and Television Programmes. This has led to a governance crisis and billions of losses and, above all, the information programme has begun to lose its competition with competing private televisions. In the current regulation of the law, the Council of RTV Slovenia is a body which practically combines all powers of exercise and has key human resources powers, and the Supervisory Board has only the powers of warning in the current regulation, not the authority to adopt rules. The Council of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, and in particular its President, has repeatedly caused justified resistance to journalists over the past years, as they have seriously intervened in their autonomy. The proposal for a new law implements this irregularity. The proposal for a new RTV law includes a European comparable way of managing public broadcasting based on journalistic autonomy and its leadership has all those powers that are regulated for its successful operation. In the new light, radio and television users will also be able to propose their proposals for the candidates of the Radiotelevision Slovenia Programme Council, and the law will also make sense of changing the composition and competence of the Programme and Supervisory Council by allowing them to function independently and a certain degree of interaction. Finally, I must say that in the proposal for a new law, I miss provisions regulating the status and method of financing local and regional and student radio and television stations with a status of special importance. With their regional diversity according to content and information, they are of course important complementary national radio broadcasting. Some have already found themselves on the brink of marriage and are therefore severely impoverished. In view of my question, on the question raised by the Member of Parliament, when the Minister of Culture or the proposer of this law assured me that these matters would be regulated in the media law, which will soon come into line, I hope that these matters will be settled there, in that law, and of course I will make every effort to do so. First, I hope that the new law on national television will help to respect the rule of law. It is unacceptable that national radio broadcasting unlawfully retains the funds that have flowed since the entry into force of the 2001 Act, which included 3% of the contribution of radio broadcasting to the payment of local and regional radio stations, and until the Constitutional Court decision in 2004, when it of course decided that the provision of Article 82 is illegal. However, during this period, national radio broadcasting to local and regional radio stations is, of course, required to provide these funds. For all of this, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that the law is appropriate, that it is absolutely necessary to adopt it and that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr Bogdan Barovic will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the government. Today we are talking about the proposal for a law on Radiotelevision Slovenia. The word "regulation of the situation of public television" is, at least by judgment and by fact, real, so we are talking about public television. We are in the Slovenian National Party for change. That's a fact. Why? The facts that have been shown, I have tried to gather as many arguments as possible, so I ask you to understand me. The Supervisory Board, existing, under the applicable legislation of the Public Institute, public RTV Slovenia, does not have the power to accept powers. The Supervisory Board shall adopt a decision - the Council in the existing RTV Slovenia shall not implement it. The Supervisory Board has no right to adopt a regulation - the RTV Council does not act. I think that's a pretty strong fact, these are proven facts, these are arguments that speak of something being wrong. And a mirror image against it: the abolition of the Council, the abolition of the Supervisory Board and the establishment of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. This is a proposal, something new, which, of course, also has a basis of its own. The government, with its proposal, expressed hope that it would like to conduct its business and organise its work in the public service of RTV. At the same time, the government says that - I hope that it has reviewed all the relevant laws - a proposal for a law and a law that, if adopted, will be European comparable. I think that the powers and competences of the new organisational scheme, from the powers of the Director-General to other powers, on the pooling of programming and on the operation, association and separation are also correctly mentioned. Last but not least, a person sees in everyday life, and for a long time, comparatively, a public health institution or a health organisation has been organized by one institution, both health care homes and hospitals. Later, there was one management, such as state property, the so-called hospital. This leadership is today regulated by law so that we have a professional director and that it is an economic, business, organisational director. And in the proposal that we have before us, if we are really trying to argue and make a substantive move, we have this very offer. We have a programme that will now decide, and on the other hand, we have people and an institution that will handle matters business, organisationally, but separately. The question, which is essential, at least for the Slovenian National Party and for me, is press autonomy and professionalism. The bill states that the new law is the basis for journalistic autonomy and professionalism on the day, even with respect to the separation of powers. Well, on the contrary, some others - everyone has the right, of course, to consider this law - claim otherwise. The evidence of what happened and what will happen will follow. The principle of separation of public service activities from market activities is essential. And another very important content is in this proposal, a new special national programme, which will, thank God, show the functioning of you, a respected colleague and colleague, whom I appreciate, as I do my work, we are all working hard, and whether we are left or right politically oriented, we are trying to do everything that is good for this Slovenian nation. And finally, if that's how it is, let people see what we're like, where we are, what we're doing. Finally, it is argued that this is at least an attempt by multilateral parliamentary democracy to exercise constitutional powers and guarantees the constitutional rights of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to be informed of everything that is good and also to do something good, sometimes we do something bad, hand to heart, all because everyone has their own conviction. And that is right, because I think that this Slovenian Parliament, despite the assessments that people make, is still within the scope of democracy, not anarchy. Because the difference between anarchism and democracy can sometimes be only one step. And may people finally honestly see that most of us, almost all of us, are trying to do good, one way or another. Now there's some evidence. They must be in order to understand that we wanted to argue. The eyes of those who - I do not speak politically, I also say that the profession has the right and it is right to include it, especially, I will say at home whether someone is now politically or otherwise controlled. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, this has been and will be so, directly or indirectly, but depends first of all on the people who carry out this profession. It depends on their conviction, ethics, moral principles, the rights of judgment that they do not last have; every journalist has his own judgment, especially in this audio-visual field, because the visual medium, nice or ugly, let's all admit, is very important for all of us, because for the first time, people sometimes say words that they do not see, do not believe. If they look us in the face, they'll know whether we mean what we're saying or not. That is why this medium is no more important than the others, but it is very important because people look us in the face and in the eyes. It's a plastic display. We in the Slovenian National Party have warned the media, the concrete media, Slovenian national television, the public institution RTV that their way of working is not satisfactory. This is our right, we have it. In particular, it broadcasts "Under the Headlights", a warning from 4 February, the Slovenian National Party was the only party to make specific legislative proposals on the protection of the Slovenian economy at the time Slovenia entered the European Union. We were not worth mentioning, even though we were the only ones, at the time, we were not worth mentioning. Next warning, 15 October 2003 - I'm going back a little bit - broadcast "Current", first program of the national RTV Institute, content "Deleted". Clearly, a political option has been invited, which has never clearly presented its views. We were just ugly and we're still ugly and still right that the Slovenian National Party is impatient and I don't know what else. No, no, no. We have spoken honestly and honestly, and we have desired the good of this country, and we have not been worthy to be invited. And last but not least, the letter of February 2nd, again one of the important shows that has a lot of ratings, the "Signature of the Constitutional Treaty for the European Union" and the studio were invited as in the good old days, but I say nothing bad, where the three thought alike sat and talked as they used to in 1960 on the Central Committee, and who would say better? Does the only party who has made it clear and loudly that it opposes the speedy ratification of the Constitutional Treaty and has given reasoned reasons, unfortunately it was just us, the only one, that we were not even worthy of an invitation? What's worse, the evidence, I'm talking about plastic evidence, RTV Slovenia sent us the answer that our belief is wrong, that we want to, because we think otherwise, tell our views, we're wrong that they did the right thing. Second proof. The public agency told us that they only wanted to make a presentation and analysis of the content of the European Constitutional Treaty and its impact on Slovenia every day. Which is an insult, because it means that we in the Slovenian National Party, because we don't think it's good to rush, we have no idea about analysis and content. That's an insult. And last but not least, the worst offense is not to get involved and leave the decision to professional editorial judgment. This is now a perfectly clear evidence, but for those of you who know little about this business, that it was and that it is likely to be more or less politics the first to lead the work of the public institution. Why am I talking about this? How, once again, can the three equally thinkers face and speak and speak and speak and, on the other hand, the public office and all the media speak, even during the former Yugoslavia, how important pluralism is. Then we were looking for outsiders when I started dealing with it, what does it even mean by pluralism? This is supposed to mean a variety of opinions and expressions. And we went to democracy, so we suffered a lot, most in our end in Zasavje. The industry's going to hell, the mines are going to hell. Okay, we have to be patient. Once we were first, now we're last, we'll grow. The aim is pluralism, diversity of opinions, coordination of opinions and the search for smart solutions. But looking for smart solutions is an editorial judgment that allows those who say yes, wonderfully, we were the third or fourth to accept the ratification that we ratified the European Treaty. The other one says, yeah, bravo great, but we really took it. Third, right, yeah, great we're geniuses, we're accepted. This is supposed to be an editorial review. And now that someone wants change, it's all wrong. I am speaking to you on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and giving you its opinion, as well as its own, and its behaviour and knowledge. When many times will change again, it may also happen that we will judge, and we feel that a matter is not right, as they say in this case one or the other options, and vice versa. It could happen. Let's talk about the arguments. If it is clearly proven that the Supervisory Board had no authority that the RTV Council did nothing, yes, hell, because we can't keep watching them. Let's make some changes. Now we will have a programming board, a supervisory board and a new programme. And if we accept that, it'll take time. Believe me, as after 12 years of political conversion, it is happening all over the world, it will also happen here if we find out and see that new ideas, new opinions will not be adopted. People will say that sooner or later, and so will we. However, it is true that I am finishing up, and that is what I am saying, but it is true that in the Slovenian National Party we are assessing that there is no hurrying with such matters. It's right that it didn't work, I don't know, by some short-term procedure or a quick procedure. It is right to follow a regular procedure and it would also be right, I agree and it may be possible to hold a public debate on this. It's a very big deal. We just got, like all of you, a lot of opinions from different options. One's up for it, the other's up for it. Most, as much as I believe, and I believe in the reports, as much as any comments made by those who carry out this business in particular could have been taken into account, at least as much as I have written evidence here. I think that's fair and square. And if one side listened to the other, the party that wanted to change listened to the other one who was hard to apply to changes and took most of their opinions into account, I think there should be no obstacles. And once again, it's true, not rush, speed kills, that's what we've always stressed. Finally, in the Slovenian National Party we have proven, I hope, why the changes are necessary, you will be able to put the opposite arguments, the opposite arguments. You have another proof of that third point argument, which was specifically linked to the Slovenian National Party on the ratification of the European Treaty, around the world. Today it is quite clear that the European Treaty will not be adopted in France. Today it is quite clear that it will not be adopted in the Netherlands. But we were not worth inviting, nor expressing opinions, nor anything in any public institution where there was some editorial policy that would change now, but will change with a clear segregated identity of who was responsible for the programme and who was responsible for everything else. And that's good, and that's why we support change in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Ivan Yelen will speak on behalf of DeSUS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! I would like to put forward my position on the proposal for an RTV Slovenia bill by the Democratic Party of Pensioners. In principle, we support the proposal for an RTV Slovenia bill in our parliamentary group, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recklessly made two mistakes by proposing that the law should be adopted in an urgent manner, and because it has not given sufficient attention to the professional public so that it can also present its opinion on the proposal for a law. In our parliamentary group, we cannot agree to the flat-rate claim that the proposed law supports our central media house. The articles defining the status of RTV in the draft law are identical in the existing law. It is therefore not about supporting the RTV house, but we can ask ourselves about the role of the public in the management of the public institution. The debate on the independence of public radio and television is, in our view, too politicised. We believe that the bill does not pose a threat to autonomy, but in its structure it does carry out the internal responsibilities of those individuals who will run the house as a whole. We are convinced that it is essential for the journalist to maintain the proposed marriage proposal, and to spread the journalistic influence after some time. We are aware of the inadequacy of the concept of civil society which has anchored itself in our public consciousness. Civil society, which very vehemently demands its place in the authorities of RTV management, is too unilateral. The logic of its opinion and action shows the marked colonisation of civil society by those political groups in our national space that are aware of the importance of this and at the same time have the organisational means by which they help to form and operate existing civil society. Following the review of the operation of the RTV Office and the reports of the RTV Supervisory Board, it is clear that there is a human and financial disorder on our RTV. As we can see from the records of other media, no one effectively controls the operation of our public television house. We understand the need to amend the existing law on RTV, but we are convinced that these changes would apply to the social validation through public debate, with greater public participation and critical awareness of the problems arising from the current organisational structure of the public institution. The emphasis on the adoption of legislation is not in favour of thoughtful and effective solutions, so it would be right to create a wider coalition of those citizens who want to change our central national house or decide to switch programmes with a competitive television house, for example, with POP TV. We are also convinced that the media area needs to be regulated in such a way that the possibility of participation in the management and performance of civil society representatives can be more appropriate and that the solution to the draft law, which provides that the National Assembly will determine who will be more appropriate in the RTV programming council, since it is more open to all civil society representatives than it is now when a company with legal standards closes the possibility of participating in the management of the public RTV house to some representatives in the public. Despite all the criticism, we believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration and we will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Yelena. Ms Maria Possonec will speak on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u47	Nice greeting to all present in the hall! Information in its own language is one of the collective rights of the national community. That is why the law on radio television is of great importance to the nation and we pay great attention to it. We too consider or note that the proposal for an RTV law arises with undue haste. Regrettably, the applicants did not ask for the opinion of the national community when drafting the bill, but this should certainly be done under Article 15 of this Article of the National Community Act. We further note that they did not even take into account the feedback from our side, which they did not even ask for. We believe that the proposal for an RTV Act by Slovenia has a drastic impact on the so far level of autonomy and on the quality of the radio and TV programme for the national communities. Instead of allowing the law to further develop and improve the provision of the constitutional right to information in the mother tongue, the power to decide on programme issues and in particular the extent of the financial resources is transferred to the Director-General or Director-General, who does not have a view to the actual problems and needs of the community. We therefore propose the following. First time. The current level of management powers of the programme within the institution should not be reduced and regulated in the same way as at RTV Slovenia. In accordance with the provisions of the appointment and powers of the Director of Radio and Television Programmes, the Director of Radio and Television Programmes for the National Communities, the Hungarian and Italian Community, or the Director responsible for television and the Director responsible for the Radio Programme shall be appointed. So far it's been like this. Another time. The programme committee for the Hungarian and Italian national communities should also have, except in the proposal for a law of registered competence, the powers of the proposer and the appointment and discharge of the director of radio and television programmes and/or the approval of the appointment and discharge of the responsible editor for television and the responsible editor for the radio programme. Third time. The Programme Council should also propose to its representative a national community, both national communities, as it has been so far. Two representatives of the RTV programmes for the national community should be appointed to the Supervisory Board. Fifth. Funding for RTV programmes should be planned separately and not as part of the regional centre in Maribor, this is for the Hungarian National Community. Financial resources intended for the preparation of programmes should be planned at a comparable level to allow for the development of a quantitative volume of radio and television programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mag. Branko Grims will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. And to all those who are accompanying us today, let us hope that this will be in future permanent practice, a very nice greeting. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very pleased that the government has decided to cut down on an area of controversy that we have not only been alerted to as the former opposition in recent years, but also came from Europe, from the European Union, which, of course, also drew attention to some of the media problems in Slovenia. From this point of view, of course, something more needs to be said. It is necessary to look in some way at why there is actually a change in the law. We are confident that this will also result in appropriate solutions. The proposal of the law itself knows that it has been the subject of a public hearing for some time now, but it must be said that, in fact, the dilemma or, if you would like, the public treatment in the broadest sense has been in line since 1994, when the current law of RTV Slovenia has been adopted. It has been the subject of many controversy all the time, in particular because of the solutions that were obviously politically motivated at the time, so that the Director-General, who was elected at the time, was deprived of his programming powers and the multiplicity of public broadcasting was established, which then had a number of negative effects. Let me mention only some, because this is certainly essential today to refresh the memory. It even occurred that the information programme was distorted at the most viewed time, that a celebration of a private trading company was broadcast on public television. This is, of course, something that we find very difficult to imagine on any public radio. In particular, if we know that, during the same period, this same broadcast did not find room, and I even claim that, contrary to its own acts, it did not tolerate the 10th anniversary of the establishment of manoeuvre protection, i.e. those organisations which have been key contributors to the independence of Slovenia. At this event, the President of the State awarded the highest award of this same radio station for its merits at the time of Slovenia's independence. Is that public television? I don't know?Oh, my Look, I'd help myself because it's often said, with experts, what with a faculty textbook for social sciences [[Quote]] : "We must not forget that the media can also be politically coloured, in the service of a particular political direction or other interest group. We must then evaluate them as one of the political institutions that is trying to achieve its political objectives." In this case, the apparent silence of Slovenia's independence and the extensive preparations it has made possible. "The truth about the social situation in each country is best learned from stories that are not in the official media content. This is especially true of television programs. The release of certain opinions, types of personality, themes, lifestyles may act as a separate form of social comment." [[Citation by Prof. Bogomil Ferfili, 2002, USA, page 444]] . You can verify the authenticity of this quote. This is said, we are talking about situations that are well known and which are, of course, also discussed by experts in this area. Then there was something that probably shouldn't have happened on public television. There was a direct political intervention in journalistic independence. This was in fact the only direct intervention in journalistic independence throughout the history of Slovenia. In 1999, a new law on RTV was adopted, the component of which was also the abolition of the actual impact of programme workers on the election of the responsible editor. At that time, it was in the form of a consensus. This has been transformed into a non-binding opinion and abused by policies concentrated in the world of RTV Slovenia, in order to impose at least three individuals on individual organisations with whom employees in these offices disagreed and have also made this public. For all three of us, it is known that this experiment ended badly, of course. This period was followed by a number of scandals, and this certainly did not benefit the reputation and, of course, not the ratings of public television and certainly had a negative impact on its operation. These things are inseparable. At the same time, it must be said that there was no misunderstanding. At the intervention or request of the press unions, the employees of the journalists, the editors of the time we responded to the then SDS opposition and we vetoed this amendment of the law, but the veto in the National Assembly was over-voted. However, he was not voted out because he did not know what was being decided, as some quotes also show. See, if we look at, say, this quote: "Those in the National Assembly who are so scrupulously committed to maintaining consensus are obviously satisfied with the current way of informing and reporting that they want to do so also in the future of human resources. We claim that this is not a European category." This is what the proponents of the then legal solution from the liberal democracy of Slovenia said. If the lady who said that wanted to check her words, I have a magnetogram here and I read it directly and I can give it to her. Also the then head of the parliamentary group: "We have not referred to regulation in Europe once before, but that there is no agreement anywhere in Europe in public institutions or in public broadcasts across Europe. That's why I'm going to vote for the law." So many self-proclaimed advocates of journalistic independence and independence. Let them be judged by their true actions. The period followed, as we have seen, by obviously politically motivated interventions, in which, as I said, some people have actually been replaced - political cleansing on RTV Slovenia, which were key to Slovenian independence, even to this particular attention, and have been removed. Some are then in the tables below in the "Cevdra" for many years and can still possibly do some relatively late or slightly viewed shows, while their quality is not fully exploited. So much for this public broadcast and the actual state of affairs on it and who caused it. Now we face what followed. There was a period during which there were direct interventions to the program, which we call censorship after home. That is how those who were victims of these interventions came to understand, and so did some media. Even some very famous daily newspaper, some of the weeks. To all those who have helped to expose this, I personally thank you. If they were not, it would certainly not have been known, but so this pressure required giving in to the public, and that is why, I stress, the light of the world was also seen on RTV Slovenia programmes, this was last year, this is not an old story which was later received or for which the author later received some of the highest recognitions by the domestic and foreign professional public, as well as by viewers or viewers, which were accompanied by TV Slovenia. Clearly, this was not an intervention based on professional arguments, but it was clearly a political motivation. It stopped the show, tried to stop the show with the excuse that it was a few minutes too long and similar nonsense that then got these confessions. Today we meet with the will expressed in the form of a well-prepared, professionally prepared law, the will of the RS Government to arrange this in a European comparable way. I personally and on behalf of the SDS Group of Members welcome this intention and, as a special quality, also mention the fact that for the first time in any media law in Slovenia it is explicitly stated, and in particular in the legislation governing public RTV, in the principle of consistent respect for journalistic independence and autonomy. I hope that we will never again read how some politicians can read, again, those who are the loudest about journalistic independence, as self-proclaimed defenders, are allowed to send text messages directly to editors or journalists, or to call and tease them on the phone. We hope this will be over for ever. That is why the law has set extremely strict criteria, some of you have expressed doubts, but this is considered a quality, criteria for membership in the programming world, which will have all the programming powers. Ten years is now the distance that will separate some day-to-day policy of people who have been involved in more important places in politics from membership in the programming world, which is the sharpest criterion of this type in Europe. So far, there has been no such criterion in marriage. More importantly, so far there has not been a word in the law about respect for journalistic independence and autonomy on the part of all those involved in the preparation of the programme. That's what the Director-General says down. The law itself preserves some other mechanisms. That's something I'd like to remind you of. In particular, it retains the full influence of both national communities. These provisions are practically transposed from existing legislation. Thus, each community still appoints at least 2/3 of its members to its own special council or minority committee, which then gives its consent to the appointment of key functions, but in particular to the responsible editor, the one who forms the programme and then appoints it separately - this provision has been tabled at the request of the press unions - its own editor. In this way, of course, the autonomy of the minority or the national community in the drafting of its programme, to which it has a constitutional right, is also fully preserved in the new law. In addition, some other things should be highlighted, particularly the fact that the principles of incompatibility, where there might be a conflict of business interests, are now substantially more regulated, as well as some other provisions that I am sure you have read them well enough. I would only personally point out that these incompatibilities provisions also concern the new Director-General, i.e. those who will then be in the programme line. So much for me. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very pleased that this issue has been addressed so responsibly that it has also been possible for those who are directly touched by this law to express their views and that this opinion has, to the greatest extent possible, already been incorporated into the existing text of the law. We are aware, however, that, of course, no proposal for a law is ideal. If any other positive comments are made, perhaps the amendments that we will assess are in the direction of increasing these goals that we have set with this law, namely the quality functioning of journalistic independence and autonomy, and, of course, that for the first time, I also stress this, puts the one who uses this, the viewer, the viewer, the listener, the listener, and the audience, for the first time, they will have the opportunity to propose their own candidates for the programme council, we will also gladly support and propose their inclusion in the text of the law. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Master Anton Rop will speak on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u51	Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In the LDS Group, we will vote against the proposed law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Why? There are many reasons. However, it is essential that this law abolishes public television in Slovenia. The law changes Radiotelevision Slovenia from public to national or government radio. Through the composition of the Supervisory and Programme Council, the law, if implemented, will allow for full government coalition control over the management and management of RTV Slovenia. In the LDS, we believe that Members of the SDS, by proposing that the law on RTV Slovenia be adopted at an extraordinary meeting, despite the fact that the government has proposed it to be considered on a regular basis, without any real arguments, create false emergency situations. This is an obvious act of democracy. Usually, however, extraordinary meetings were convened either by the government or by the opposition. With this way of functioning, the ruling coalition continues the story of the state of emergency, which the opposition launched last year, attempts to spread uncertainty among people, especially among journalists, with the aim that the public will be prepared to renounce those fundamental constitutional rights, freedom of speech. In drafting the law, the government has shown its full duality by promising a broad public debate on the one hand, while at the same time proposing an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly for the Adoption of this Law. How is that possible? To hold a broad, democratic, public debate and, on the other hand, to call for an extraordinary meeting and to adopt legislation on a rapid basis. It just doesn't work out. So why don't you let a broad, patient, democratic debate take place? What are you afraid of? So why is the coalition in such a hurry? What's the hurry? Apparently there's no need. It has a comfortable majority, and at any time the law can be passed in the National Assembly. Maybe he's in a hurry because he knows that the proposed changes in the general public are gone and he won't get support? Perhaps he is afraid that the widest range of TV subscribers, taxpayers, will learn what he is trying to do with public television and, above all, what this authority is doing with it? In the LDS, we are convinced that the drafting of such a law regulating the functioning of public broadcasting requires broad social consensus, as is also evident from numerous protests and disagreements between professions, academic spheres, various societies and associations, and especially journalists, including the international press union. According to Aidan Whit, the secretary-general of the international news organization, Slovenia would be able to bring together countries such as Turkey, Algeria, Tunisia and Israel, where governments are threatening media independence and pluralism. We do not claim that the existing law on RTV Slovenia is ideal, we do not claim that all conditions in RTV Slovenia are ideal, of course, that there are shortcomings, of course, that the existing law also has shortcomings and can be improved, but the proposal before us will certainly not achieve this. Far from it, on the contrary. The RTV Slovenia Act, which was adopted in 1994 and is still in force today, was intended to withdraw public RTV from party political interference or to ensure the decisive influence of the public, which is also paid by residents and residents through RTV subscribers. Therefore, the existing composition of the world on the one hand includes large mass organisations of civil society, unions, pensioners, cooperatives, religious communities and universities, and the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, on the other hand, those that are supposed to have a special meaning or influence on the design of programmes, minorities, disabled persons, journalists, composers, writers, etc. Of course, interest representation is also not immune to political influences, as people representing non-political organisations also have their own personal political beliefs and party preferences. In order to limit unacceptable conflicts of interest to a minimum, amendments to the law have been adopted so far, which do not allow councilors to have business relations with RTV Slovenia and limit their membership in the world to a maximum of 2 mandates. Nevertheless, the public was quite critical of the individual actions or decisions of the RTV world. And that's right. However, it is undeniable that this very composition of the world has enabled a high degree of autonomy of journalistic work on RTV Slovenia. Following the example of the BBC, a press code has also been adopted which severely restricts the delivery of biased judgments on public RTV and compares the performances of the authorities and the opposition with, as they say, a pharmacy scale. So far, it has not bothered anyone, but I believe that this may not be a year from now. The operation of such a world of RTV also shows considerable unpredictability in deciding on the most politically sensitive personnel matters, with representatives of employees in RTV Slovenia also playing a very important role throughout the world, not only through their representatives in the RTV world, but also through their trade unions. The unions had and have power within RTV and have also achieved a number of things and have warned on a number of things that have been warned today that irregularities have been or that needed to be rectified. The current government wants to end all this unpredictableness irrevocably. The political impact on public radio television will now truly be visible and obvious, a large majority of the new programming world will be appointed by the National Assembly because it is known that the existing authority has a majority. The new Supervisory Board, which will decide on organisational and financial matters, will in essence become a government body, meaning that the government coalition will directly decide on the organisation and financial position of RTV Slovenia. In addition to praising their law as supposed to ensure the widest and most high-quality representation of the public, they will, of course, choose their majority via the voting machine only to meet the narrow political criteria of the current government. RTV Slovenia will thus turn into RTV Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, there's nothing else we can expect. Everything else is just a political demagogy that reminds us of some of the old times that we thought were irrevocable after us. For example, the cultural minister's claim that the abolition of the autonomy of the public administration of RTV means the final withdrawal of the State from the public service or that the rapid incorporation of the law into the parliamentary procedure, which has completely bypassed the press and professional public, is the beginning of a broad public debate. Where the authors or supporters of the new law really measure, some of their verbal slips show. Thus, in a recent interview with Mag, for example, the Minister of Culture expressly challenged the right of public RTV editors to choose, in accordance with their professional autonomy, those involved in the omisms or public confrontations. So who's gonna pick them later? Minister Simonity, Prime Minister's office or what's the president himself? Is this still public television? Is that still press autonomy? The answer is clear. Your Honor! For the LDS Group, the proposed law is conceptually unacceptable and threatens the constitutionally guaranteed right to information and freedom of expression for journalists, editors. The law interferes with the independence of journalists and reduces the possibility of impartial reporting. The concept of the law on RTV follows the objective of subjugating, controlling and disciplining editors and journalists on RTV. The bill before us is yet another step backwards, is another proof of the way the authorities work and think, is another and how important and harmful the type of politicisation of our society exercised by the current authorities. It is a return to the past, it is a reduction of standards achieved and it is more than obvious part of the measures that turn Slovenia into worse and backward. The public Radiotelevision of Slovenia is and must be of general public interest. However, in the 21st century, any maintenance means only a step back in the degree of democracy achieved. A law such as this should be adopted both in public and in the National Assembly on the basis of the consent of a large majority of all parties. We're afraid that's not gonna happen. We therefore strongly reject the law in the parliamentary group, and we will use all the legal instruments available to us as opposition, including the referendum, if we do not allow a broad, open, public debate and the participation of the widest public concerned, and if we do not take into account the legitimate proposals for amending the proposal before us today. I reiterate and appeal to all Members and Members that they do not accept the law to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Rope. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! The current government attempt to seize the Slovenian media space, which is certainly the proposal of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, cannot be fully understood without highlighting the past relationship of the current largest government party to the media, and in particular the attitude of the Prime Minister towards the media. This relationship had already been clearly outlined in 1990, at the time of the first democratically elected assembly, when a national television camera caught the indiscretions of the new congregation leadership in conducting one of the meetings. At that time, the current Prime Minister joined the charges against Demos that such reporting was not professional but degrading, ethically incorrect and ideologically oriented. Moreover, at a meeting of the Sociopolitical Assembly, he declared that they were [[Quote]] "some editors with their method of reporting prepared a swan song" [[End quote]] . Many journalists and civil society were then protesting against such pressure on journalists. The Prime Minister also accused the company of journalists in Slovenia years ago of being a society of lakai. He often stressed, however, that the situation in Slovenia is significantly different from those in the current Member States of the European Union due to his view that the media monopoly is significantly different. In doing so, he forgot to say that the opposition then demanded and also achieved parliamentary sessions on national television, as well as the fact that he himself is one of the most frequent politicians on national television screens. In short, Mr Janša, together with his client, has always understood journalism and the media as some kind of fourth branch of government, which must be subordinated to the ruling policy for successful governance. It is precisely because of an attempt to legitimize government and political interference with the autonomy and programming content of the RTV public service, as we have witnessed at today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly that Slovenia is already on the list of countries that are threatening media independence and pluralism, in addition to Algeria, Tunisia, Turkey, Italy and Israel. But nothing bad about these particular countries, of course. Let's just see how the new wind will blow the software world and turn it literally into a new broom, which has recently been a very popular working tool of the current coalition. The way in which members of the programme council, civil society representatives, are selected and appointed is controversial, since according to the proposal of the law, the national assembly, where the majority of the government has an undisputed power, should also appoint those representatives. The candidates for the RTV Slovenia Program Council can indeed be proposed by anyone, but will eventually be confirmed by the ruling coalition in the National Assembly, which is why it is a government deceiving and a political trick that Minister Simoniti or government may have been able to afford. Of the 29 members who would name the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Academy of Science and Art, two members would be appointed by the President of the State on a proposal from the Catholic Church and other legally recognised religious communities, three members would be employees of RTV, five would be representatives of political parties according to their size in the National Assembly, and a majority of 16 would be appointed by the National Assembly. They should be proposed by audiences and viewers of RTV programmes Slovenia, universities and civil society organisations. So far, representatives of civil society have been appointed directly by the organisations themselves, they have been mentioned in the law and they could only be proposed under the new law. In the new Programme Council, extended to 29 members, the policy instead of the current 5 political party representatives would appoint 21 members. Very interesting. Certainly, however, the drafters did not read the law, such as the Council of Europe recommendations 1506 on freedom of expression and information in the media in Europe, but if they did, they certainly did not understand it. They also did not read one of the public media laws, which was either prepared or commented by the so-called Venice Commission, which was very popular in the current political option. But only temporarily until she took the right position on that issue regarding our electoral system. Thus, if the founders of the law had first come to know the material mentioned and were to have knowledge of the basic provisions of our Constitution, those concerned with human rights and fundamental freedoms would not, of course, have been able to design articles 17 and some of the other related to it, which contain certain criteria which are not in accordance with our Constitution, but also contain some typical lustration provisions. After these new winds, ladies and gentlemen, time will not be clear to Kranjci, nor will the TV picture. Let me add something else. I count it a great honour to have been mentioned here by the distinguished Mr Grimes, that he has even reached into the archives of the year, which is beyond 1999. I have to say, I'm still behind that explanation. In fact, I also said, "I don't know any democratic country myself, where the appointment of an editor in the public media would depend on the formal agreement of the employees of the journalists in the appropriate editorial system." If Mr Grims, who is a real expert, is not just an expert, even an excerpt for all that needs to be known in this area, he knows such an example, of course I will be happy. I would be even more pleased if, for example, such a provision were now included in this proposal. So the consent of the journalists employed in the relevant editorial department to appoint an editor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Well-known honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Secretary. We're continuing our session. Mr Aurelio Juri, the Social Democrat, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the fact that this product has raised such violent reactions by the affected and competent public says it is not good. It is not enough to make any improvements or to say that you should cross a much longer path of checking in qualified circles before you have to crash into us. We have heard that minorities, or national communities, are not pleased with him. Thank God the author, Mr. Secretary, praises him. You say, Mr Minister, that organizational renewal of RTV is necessary because the institution is supposed to operate poorly because it is supposed to suffer from billions of losses and for all the lower ratings of information shows. However, you should avoid mentioning that they have earned some Viktor, as far as we know, far more than competition. And you say that the institution is politicized that there is no or too little press autonomy, that everything or almost everything is the fault of the president of the world and the former leading former totalitarian political organisation. Let me remind you once again that the political organisation, which was already led by Mr Janez Kocijancič in anchored democracy, was the same party that, with the legitimacy of all others, or with a tone less, is sitting in this hall and is as formerly totalitarian as we deserve and deserve all who we are and have gone through the union of communists or whatever you have sworn on the former socio-political system. But there are some of us, both in this hall and in the government, and in our memberships. You also report to the president of the world the insurrection of journalists. As a former resident colleague and their union representative on TV, Koper, who also supported the organisation of the first RTV press statement in the mid-80s, let me say that when it comes to interference with their autonomy, I am still very close to such a rebellion today. I am surprised, however, that, with your high and noble concern for journalism, I believe that, even for the dignity of all employees in the institution, their warnings and warnings that the renewal of RTV is not going to be done in such a way that the proposal for a law is totally unacceptable to find solutions that will enjoy a very broad social consensus, leave almost indifferent. In addition, two on specific articles, and only two on specific articles, I will define myself. Second indent of Article 3 - are you sure that most RTV subscribers want a special television program designed to sell dishes and weight loss products, including the cleverness of us, Members and Members? I don't have that conviction. And Article 4 - RTV to ensure reliable and impartial information broadcasts, objective public information, quality educational broadcasts, the full range of current content and so on. Of course, he can't and can't be. But who will judge and judge what is credible, what is impartial, what is objective and comprehensive? In the final instance, the Programme Council, which under Article 17, will be nothing more than a child of the current leadership policy. For most of the members and members of the Council will be appointed here, in this Chamber, colleagues and colleagues - I say, because the opposition, which is in the minority, does not have this power. However, in order to give the impression that politics will not yet peep into this world, you have written down such conditions of political disinfection for those who would like to enter this body, that it is already bordering on paranoia and which are in a screaming contrast to what you have done just two days ago by calling the "super partes" of the Attorney General's Office. But it is only a deception and a blinding of the public, because, following the dictates of this Article, four-fifths of the so-called eminent independent and competent people from the circles of the New Journal and the Republic Assembly will be among the qualified candidates and candidates for this world. And so, according to you, the political and impartialness of the programming world will be ensured. This is it, Minister, and at least admit that you currently have authority in your hands and that you want to use it to control public broadcasting. That you may tell her what to do, which events she may endure, and whom she may not give, and to whom she may not give the word, who shall be beautiful, and who shall be ugly. We're getting closer not only to the state, but to the regime's radio. Well, I'll make sure it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan, Nova Slovenija has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. In the new proposal for the RTV Act, a number of dust was raised today as to how the current authority will subject itself to public RTV. I ask you: Will it be subordinated to giving the opportunity to the general public, civil society, which will propose 16 of its representatives? What options have ordinary earthlings, listeners, or viewers had? It is by this law that they are given the opportunity to propose successful and capable people who will work in their interest. Who was now subject to public television, which was chaired by the Magi. Janez Kocijancič, leader of the only party in the previous regime? [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Well, the leader. Now we have written that politicians cannot be members of the programming board that would influence the direction and functioning of radio broadcasting. We take freedom, autonomy, and I don't know what it's all about. Who's talking about them? We expect from them an ethical journalistic code, as they know. We are introducing a third programme that will fully report on the developments of the legislative authority. Let the people see the work and behaviour of their representatives, elected Members. Who for God's sake has chosen us if not people who have electric counters, if I'm being ironic. From all the newspaper controversy, I've read this so we can get RTV. No smart proposals to improve the law, except that the subscription must be legally recorded and paid automatically by all those with electric counters. And I know people who don't have RTV receivers, people who don't watch TV, because they don't want to see it because of politics and bias that feel humiliated on certain shows and so on. Why would we pay a membership fee called a contribution to RTV? Let the users pay for it, most of them will be if the programs are in the interest of listeners and viewers. Let the programming board be responsible for the professional and correctness, the legality of the business and the financial performance of national television. Not that someone without a name, without responsibility, remembered and said that it was not necessary, for example, to tax 3% of the taxes prescribed by law and that billions of losses were incurred by the public office. Who's responsible for this? No one, because no one even remembers who said that. Is it a public institution that they can work with taxpayers' money, viewers like a pig with fur? And because the National Assembly will confirm 5 candidates for political parties and 16 civil society representatives will take a heavy responsibility in the professional and financial functioning of the public service RTV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič of LDS, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The media is a complicated matter. Today we are talking only about one medium, but it is so large and so powerful that the sample is also available to other media in the Republic of Slovenia. And it is usually so that what happened on Radio Slovenia or on Television Slovenia was then transmitted so analogously to other media. That's why I'm a little worried about these things. The Media Act states that every media outlet must have a responsible editor. There's no record of that in the RTV Act. The editors are very, very low in hierarchy, and it's probably not a fear that someone will call a reporter directly, but they'll call the director. You won't have to, because things will go very hierarchically, under executive command, as they say in the military. This is one of the things that this law naturally makes possible. I'm not saying that the 1994 law or the 1994 law was a good one. I think that there is a lot to be done to correct, correct, harmonise, democratise, disperse, allow greater autonomy for journalists and all other programme workers, so that we do not forget them, of course, that there is a need to involve the public and the public in all possible ways, it is said, not just one general audience and audience, because this involvement is also a risk of promoting the programme in fact. Lowering quality, levels, because it's going to be about some desires. Of course, all of this will be very, very difficult to coordinate. And I very much doubt that this pyramid structure will allow this to be done by one person, who will in fact be responsible for only one. These are the things that the bill allows, I'm not saying that's how it's going to happen. We could even have an enlightened absolutist, but he's still an absolutist. And that's how it's done. When this happens on the national, on the radio, or on television, it will then be transmitted to all other media that inform the public, one more precisely, the other less. But basically, it can all end up like, "Ein-Zeitung, Ein-Rundfung, Ein-Shef-Redakteur."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u60	Excuse me. Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, SNS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we have already pointed out at the College that the proposed amendment to the law, in our opinion, does not meet the business conditions for the inclusion in this meeting. We have a regular procedure ahead of us, a general debate, and we have put it all together in an extraordinary session. We don't understand why such a rush, why such a rush. The President of the National Assembly could point out that a point, even if it is as important as the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia is, and this confirmation is not disputed by the government, as they wrote in their explanation: "The Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia is undoubtedly an important law, as it regulates the sensitive area of the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens and citizens to impartial and comprehensive information." Therefore, it does not meet the conditions set out in Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure, and I will not read them because I believe you know them. In our opinion, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you have made little use of the business provisions and, of course, of the constitutional provisions. Above all, I think of Article 85 of the Constitution, which, in our belief, is very loosely written and can be used smoothly. The explanation you gave as a reason for calling an extraordinary meeting is more than ridiculous and is in the material because, at least in our belief, it requires formality. Indeed, the only clear statement after the urgency and urgency of addressing this law at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is the statement made by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the college she gave. She said that it was a good property for us to consider this law today in an extraordinary session, only because the law would then be adopted one month earlier than it would have been adopted otherwise if it had been placed in a regular, May session. But O. K., okay. You have a majority, and you have achieved through the voting mill that the bill is on our hands today and that we are dealing with it. For those of us who have been in opposition for some time now, this is nothing new. The former authorities have done the same in a number of marriages. However, I would warn you, as you have warned, if you remember, not long ago would the former authorities be able to do so by voting and haste. We also warn, from the Slovenian National Party, that today you are not worth it and that it is not worth it, have also shown elections six months ago. The fact is that the current law needs to be changed, both in the reorganisation of national television and in the area of governance and in the field of the programming scheme. When I mention only the management of national television and national radio, I would like to emphasise - what is also written in the explanation of the law - that Slovenia is the only country in the European Union - and as I said, we agree here with the proponents in the Slovenian National Party - in which the principle of national television is a politically confirmed person. Not a lobbyist, as we might expect, but a politically confirmed person. It also calls for changes to the law, the applicable, programming spheres. The fall in the ratings of RTV Slovenia programmes and the increasing losses of the public agency alert us to this and calls us all together to change the law. Last but not least, the undemocratic regulation of RTV Slovenia, we can say that we felt it in the Slovenian National Party on our skin and as proof I can give you, say, a broadcast about deleted, where only the advocates and not the opponents of the so-called deleted were invited. It is our belief that this is primarily attributed to the political leadership of the current RTV. The same is true not long ago for the broadcast of the 'Under the Headlights' in which the European Constitution was the theme. Even then, the Slovenian National Party, as the only party to object to this Treaty, was unjustifiable or justified. We will see, and there will be a referendum in France, and we will see what will come of this when we are alerted to speed. Even then, we were not invited, and even then we felt some form of discrimination in the current public administration. Therefore, we are now asking whether it is not the objectivity of the communication of the basis for public information, although we could say that, as so far as it has been, the main purpose of the reports has been to raise and generate public opinion. I will highlight, raise and generate public opinion. This has happened, in our opinion, so far. Of course, we have responded to this ignorant attitude of the public institution in the Slovenian National Party. The answers we received to our warning can be called ignorant, insulting and misleading. These cases, which I have just mentioned, are also the reason why changes are needed on RTV Slovenia itself. Man, what he learns on his own skin, he just fills you up. As far as the introduction of the third channel in the law itself is concerned, it makes sense to us in the Slovenian National Party, since objective public information is necessary and also defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we support amendments to the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia because of the democratic and pluralism of the media. The changes proposed today by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will show in practice whether they are good or bad. We hope that as it has been so far, it will no longer be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In my opinion, surely Mrs Lidija Hren is the one who fears her and shakes their pants when they go to her shows, both the left and right parts of the political space because I think she is very independent and always looking for the truth. And those journalists should be mostly on RTV, otherwise she's not the only one, but I took it as an example. And certainly critical journalists are extremely dangerous to politicians trying to fish in mud and good for people. The criticism of journalists to any authority is certainly one of the public's interests. The purpose of this law, which the governing structure wants to adopt as soon as possible or at least wanted to adopt as soon as possible, is to support national television, to submit to the media; what is even more dangerous - to visit the independence of the press, to walk the constitutional right to freedom of expression and to force journalists into compatibility with the interests and views of the government. In this way, the government will prevent objective reporting, cover up its mistakes, manipulate voters through the media, achieve popularisation and ensure success in future elections. As we know, the public usually believes what the media say. The purpose of the new RTV law is to increase the serviceability of journalists and thus the pyramidal hierarchy. With the initial rush of the government to adopt this law, it shows that this government in many cases ignores the professional public, trade unions and civil society. If we look at only the law on civil servants, and now the package of laws that will talk about war graves and so on, but in this case they have counted, because journalists are one of the most viewed people in this country, because they are constantly setting up mirrors for us, they have swung their swords and axes, and they have interrupted or prevented this purpose, so that at least today we can talk about this law in the National Assembly at first reading. I think the government, by sending legislation to the National Assembly by procedures that are not normal, but by very fast procedures, is doing it by itself by jumping into a swimming pool with no water. We in the opposition are very happy about this. I would like to say that, unlike the current government, it has spent considerable time negotiating with trade unions, coordinating with them, taking into account proposals and managing the country by consensus. Democracy based on human rights is not understood as a dictatorship of the majority. We can write down any law, but this law, if we are to bring him to life, must have a consensus in the society where he comes from, and then such a law is a good law, and of course every other law makes our legislative body inoperable. The government has apparently forgotten that democracy should also contain a culture of dialogue, and democracy will rather create in a way that will bring the media, the judiciary, the police, civil society into line with history. This is what we are witnessing, ladies and gentlemen. How do you think if I take only the area of higher education, that the government has appointed a professional council for higher education, its president, all of you well-known Mr. Peter Jambrek, who does not work at any of Slovenia's universities and certainly belongs to one of the other parts of higher education, that immediately after his appointment they appear on the polytechnics in Nova Gorica the requirements of the fourth Slovenian university, which is, of course, created at a similar institution in Gorenjska. That's more than obvious! There are also cases in the police, including cases of civil servants, if you look at us in the National Assembly, that I do not speak anywhere else, indicating that the government has started, in an undemocratic way, to open the way through its apparatus and legislation, which is not in our honour. According to journalists, press unions and the professional public, the proposed law is a case in which public broadcasting is subordinated to the ruling coalition on a case-by-case basis and dangerously threatens the right of the public to credible and impartial information. The same will now be true in the international European press relations, and if you look at a public survey of the opinion - whether the public opposes or supports this law - it will certainly be the first to hold. It is comfortable to rule, ladies and gentlemen, if we submit to the media, and, in fact, when we have ensured with the previous law that we can "screw" every public servant "screwer", we will also try to regulate this law through the mechanisms that this law has, "screw" the critical journalists on RTV. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Ficko, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I am surprised at how much energy the opposition is spending in order to reject the adoption of this law. Indeed, it seems logical to me that it will be adopted as soon as possible, and it will be possible to see how a good change is actually proposed or envisaged by this law. I believe that even respectable colleagues from the opposition believe that it will not be possible in the process to fail to make any changes to this law, even otherwise, I think it is very good. However, I would like to say something about that plane that the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavlih, spoke from the shadows not long ago to the public about the plane we are flying with, and it was not supposed to be piloted. No, gentlemen, we're flying this plane! In addition to piloting, we must also make sure that discipline is in order in this aircraft. Of course, you've retreated into the shadows and you're trying to make some adjustments from there. Well, this plane needs some sort of service there, like any device needs servicing. Sometimes it would be good if we could help with this servicing. In fact, we need to do this service in the air. The aircraft of Slovenia flies all the time. But you don't want to help. Well, this plane also has a radio. You have already found that this image was not suitable in the past. You need a little service, a little respect for that thing. This is the law, this law will do it to sharpen the image again, so that the tone will be heard distinctly. That when we want to listen to music, we will listen to music when we want to hear the news, the news, we will hear the news. Well, we're going to serve it with the law. I believe you'll like the picture better then, too, so you'll like the tone better. I even hope you'll like it so much that you'll just get over your desire to fly this plane in the future. Thank you very much. [[Flattery.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I would ask the gentleman on the balcony if he does not express his satisfaction or dissatisfaction by clapping. Please. Mr Bojan Kontic, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me be allowed to stay on solid ground. Thank you for inviting me to your plane. Even if he has a radio, there will be music of your choice, and I want to listen to music that is pleasing to my ears, that I am not talking about safety, and for safety reasons I would like to stay out of your plane. Thank you very much! Let me also say in the introduction that I am in favour of national television, not state television, and I say that the effort for public television is an effort for democracy in our country. Lawmakers have embarked on a difficult path to ensure their impact, as the current law does not allow them to do so, even if they would replace the current President of the Council with their President. In doing so, they relied on public support, as the national is still conscious of the people and the inhabitants as an institution paying for a service with which they are not most satisfied. My colleagues and colleagues in the previous term probably still remember my own, or should I say so, our efforts to make part of this income, whatever we call it, belong to regional and local television and radio non-commercial stations. This has not yet been arranged and is calling for a comprehensive arrangement. One more thing about the bill. The way it is prepared is unacceptable for a democratic society. This is one of the laws that touches each individual and should be prepared and adopted with the broadest social consensus. One of the most controversial articles is certainly the 17th, which defines the composition of the Programme Council. After a new one, 21 out of 29 members would appoint a national assembly. In addition to the "five", in the notes, 16 representatives of the so-called civil society or the general public. So it is theoretically possible that each time a government majority repeatedly appoints its 16 and three others from a package of five, where the ratio of forces in the national assembly needs to be taken into account. So 19 out of 29. By the way, according to the current law, they appoint representatives of the so-called civil society in the world of RTV by society, associations and so on. While this is partly the case, it is for the new law's proponents to insist that this solution is not fair to the vast majority of companies that are not enshrined in the law. However, this weakness of the current law could also be remedied. Some consider the possibility that these members of the programming council should be elected in the same way as, for example, saints in the state world. In marriage, it is important to note another danger of abuse. Among other things, the Programme Council would have the task of accepting and identifying complaints from audiences and viewers. This is, of course, a carriage for another option of customer control over RTV, each as strong as it is possible to gather 100 of its correspondents who write and criticize individual broadcasts and identify themselves. Of course, by this "force" in the notes again, the Programme Council to define for the programming policy a fully defined responsible editor or portfolio editors who are not willing to do so. The definition may constitute an order to the Director-General to act on those under him. Here is the only real professional solution in an independent ombudsman. There's a whole bunch of other, controversial things in the proposed law. We also know the weight of the statutes in an institution by accepting the statutes of oversight. Finally, because I am running out of time, all I can say is that your path is not right, but it is the following: firstly, to replace disobedient editors; secondly, including these disobedient officials also the chief of police; thirdly, to ensure proper reporting of the national - I apologize, on your - state television. In your previous term as opposition Members, you have repeatedly warned that the media are an equation to a government suit. And this government outfit of the previous election has lost. So, be careful with the government coalition!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry that on a beautiful day like today, they won't be able to open a window in this room, because a little fresh and clean air would probably help us at this point to miss the way the dog is praying. Slovenia is clearly approaching an emergency situation, as it is obviously the most important or one of the most important projects of this government to gain political influence after reforms in public administration, in the police, the prosecutor's office. I am not talking about why we do not agree on the regionalisation of Slovenia, because it threatens us that if we do not do so by 25 June, we will lose great European money. Nor are we talking today at an extraordinary meeting on the economic situation, nor are we interested in economic growth, nor in jobs, nor are we discussing the withdrawals of the country from the economy, nor in the employment of young people, nor in Slovenian nativity, nor in the inflation of oil. No, this is obviously not a serious problem for today! The problems were the prosecutors yesterday, today RTV and the journalists, and tomorrow it will probably be the Court of Auditors, which in some municipalities finds a number of irregularities. In the middle from which I come, an extremely large number of errors have been identified in the field of the media in the Court of Auditors' report. Why? Because in the current political story, these media were still on the right side and also used and, if you want, abused. The media do not serve people, but the current authorities do to spread their demagogies and blind people. For example, in our congregation newspaper we find from 10 to 15 portrait pictures of the leading political men of the present authorities. On the radio during Sunday’s lunchtime, when others listen to melodies as they wish, we listen to the self - speaking of the congregation’s leading representatives, in which they pour manure over the opposition and so forth. Of course, we do not publish the answers of the opposition because they tell us on the radio that it is not in the programming scheme. What does the media law say about this? What does the constitution mean? Nobody cares about this. Also on why we have 800 million outstanding obligations under the 2.3 billion municipal budget, there is never a talk in such media. My congregation is a typical example of how we made the radio "Kričačač" out of the municipal radio in such a way that it would not be ashamed of even the most red in the time of the informory. So to such stories about public broadcasting as we have heard today - how did it go in that book? Wasn't that the story of the Grimes fairy tales? And if this public institution, Radiotelevision Slovenia, is no longer to be said like that, then it will only be a short and sharp "grimsovija", a more European sound. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My predecessor would obviously benefit greatly from fresh air to determine that we are today discussing the law on radio television, the public institution, and not the local media. Otherwise, I can say that it has never before been such a convincing statement that the media are changing the world. They are important to shape society and its social values and are key to the development of every democratic society. Every democratic country, I repeat, a democratic state, seeks to create the conditions for the development of politically independent media, which represent to its citizens the social situation in a proper, independent and, above all, free manner, taking into account journalistic ethics. As we know that every medium that is capital dependent on its existence is also subject to various pressures after unbiased and incorrect reporting, it is logical and correct for citizens to provide an independent media institution legally. Such a public institution, which must be capital and also politically independent of daily policy, should have a basic mission to act and report properly, free and, above all, impartially. I am convinced that every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia wants such reporting, regardless of political, religious or secular definition. Slovenia is or should be considered a democratic state. However, here I share an opinion with a number of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, with whom I meet every day, and together we find that we do not yet have a media institution in Slovenia, which in its reporting would correctly, impartially and equally sum up the actual social situation, despite the fact that we have been a single and democratic country for more than a decade, at least in the constitution. However, as this is of particular concern to me, I believe that even for most citizens and citizens, our so-called public institution RTV, which is financed by compulsory contributions from taxpayers, does not carry out the basic mission of the public media. Why is that? The main reason is likely that the current RTV law has systematically prevented the functioning of an institution of public interest. Recruitment to key leadership positions and editorial structures was such that the functioning of the institution is financially opaque and editorial policy is all the more than independent, impartial and democratic. The draft law on RTV, which we have today in the general debate, is a good one. Since I do not want to be a proposal in my debate, I will only touch a little further on the work that sets out the human resources and programme policy. Only in this proposal is the first and precise, clearly defined hierarchy of governance and performance, which will ensure a transparent and plural programme policy of the institution and which is also a very important, transparent economy of the operation of the RTV office. It is now clearly defined here who is responsible for whom and for what, without delaying and concealing responsibility, as it was now. I come directly from an economy where I have worked for more than 20 years, and on the basis of experience, I say that in every successful company, there is always a clear definition of the hierarchy of responsibility, which normally ends with a company director or a CEO. It is always the first responsible person who is fully responsible for the work of his subordinates and also for the business results. I wish, and I know, that citizens and citizens of Slovenia deserve this, to finally get a European comparable, democratic and independent public institution, named RTV, so I fully support the proposal of the law and for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Master Franz Capuder, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The current legal regime governing RTV Slovenia has proved to be extremely negative. That this situation is also aware of by many employees in the public office, in particular journalists, their numerous protests and disclosures on RTV Slovenia in recent years. In addition, RTV is facing a crisis of governance and billions of losses in the economic field. In the field of programme content, it has started in key areas such as the information programme, to lose the competition with competing private televisions. This in itself proves the necessity of change, as it is clear that in the area of freedom of information and the public word Slovenia is not comparable in Europe. The amendment of the RTV law was therefore necessary, with which we must all agree. The proposed law corrects the shortcomings identified in the application of the current law and reintroduces public RTV. In the proposed law, the current form and content of the RTV Council and the Supervisory Committee shall be abolished and replaced by an RTV Programme Council, which shall have programme powers and shall primarily represent the interests of the public or users. And with a supervisory board with competences in the field of organisation of work and business and supervision. In particular, it is important to welcome the proposals of the composition of the Programme Council, which puts RTV Slovenia's users first and thus includes a wider society in its work. The vast majority of societies and other civil society institutions have so far not had the right to propose their candidates to the Council of Radio Television Slovenia, and now all interested will have the opportunity to appoint them to the Programme Council. During the registration phase, candidates will be able to propose who are supposed to be individuals who, with their achievements in any area of social life, will contribute to the good functioning and reputation of public RTV. The law also provides a legal basis for an additional TV programme that will show the real situation in the work of the National Assembly. This change was also necessary due to warnings from foreign human rights experts. After a detailed examination of the situation in Slovenia, they stated that without uniform and comprehensive information, democracy is only a farce. According to a government representative, most comments from representative unions on Radiotelevision Slovenia were taken into account in the drafting of the law. The comments of the management of RTV Slovenia and other interested parties were taken into account. Also because of this and because I am aware of the necessity of changes in the functioning of the public institution RTV Slovenia, I will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Milenko Ziherl, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. When we discuss RTV, we reluctantly come to the thought of the American rock singer Bruce Springsteen, who says: "Fiftyseven chanels and nothing on" - seventy channels and nothing on them. And among these channels are probably the channels of our national. What do I miss about her? In all my times, I lack objective information, which was most felt in the events I attended and was present and then watched it on television and it was as if something else was happening: tended and organized reporting. Most of this informational inconsistencies were certainly the press's statement on the day of the election. Then, one of such mistakes was the hosting of Cece Ražnatović on national television, which put Slovenia in a very bad light, because in the coming weeks I met with representatives of diplomacy from Yugoslavia and they said, "Your television was Ceca, we are not letting go." For she has a ban on any Serbian television house." I am not surprised that this is the situation, since the director of national television is also strictly politically defined and, above all, the quality of television shows is not such as to bear such expensive subscriptions or contributions. Contributions or financial transactions are untransparent, and abuses are possible, as 30 billion a year, as close as the annual budget is then to loss, is not something that we who are paying your subscription could approve. I certainly cannot approve of the fact that 3% of this subscription was taken from local media. With us in Škofja Loka, two media outlets, national television and Radio Sora are thus damaged. Although this will be resolved by another law, it will certainly be the emptiness of a year or two when these local media are particularly handicapped in their operation. That is why I will support the bill because I look forward to making changes for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u77	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've read somewhere in the last few days that the law on public television is a major accident. I think it would still be lucky if it were just an elementary accident, because then we would have had the opportunity to remedy this damage in this national council. Given the practice and conduct of the government majority in this assembly, of course, I am not such an optimist, but of course there is hope. That is why, in my opinion, it is a much worse accident, it is a tsunami with floods that aims to flush out anything that is not to the extent and will of the current authorities and the interpretation of the coalition treaty. In view of the proposed text of the bill, it is more than obvious that it is a whole new concept in the management, management and financing of a public institution that transforms the public institution more than clearly into a state and government service. That is why the ignorant behaviour of the proposer, i.e. the government and the ministry of culture, is understandable in the drafting of this bill. Why the illegal group has completely bypassed and even convinced dialogue and confrontation within the professional public if it has already refused to reveal its intentions to the general public, it is possible to see today when we have this proposal before us. This self-sufficiency and arrogance of power itself calls for all those and all those who want to say something about public television to have this opportunity and the opportunity to express themselves at the referendum. Let's leave this alone, I prefer to focus on some of the solutions offered in this bill, because there is a lot of talk about the Europeanity of this law. But I can't get past the introduction, and I'm going to say something in the introduction first. So far, the practice has been that government materials in the formal introductory part referred to the sources of reinforced facts and estimates, comparisons with the European Union and the expected consequences. This time it's nothing. Instead, we received in the introduction a true cathartic personal confession by a writer, in which there are quite a few notorious untruths, inspire and, in particular, foolishness. The biggest nonsense is about the current president of the world of RTV Slovenia, Janez Kocjančič. Otherwise, I cannot confirm for sure, to name the writer of this pamphlet in the introduction, but after some statements and interviews by self-declared specialists and media professionals, it is more obvious that at least one of these is fertilized by paranoid outbursts on the person of Kocijancič. The judgments given to the public primarily speak about him and his conspirators and much less about mags. Pussy. Therefore, the statement in the introduction, which states, quote: "Slovenia is the only country in the EU and, according to all available information, also in a world where the second term of office of the former totalitarian political organisation is at the head of the world of television." End of quote, bullshit about bullshit, especially if it's written in an act called a marriage proposal. Not only is this a grave lie, the ZLSD was never a totalitarian political organization, but it points to the extreme political motivation of the writers of this law. For, this way and approach, and especially the content, are troubled by the time in which we live. This means that we could also make the following point in another proposal. Slovenia is the only country in the EU and, after all available information, also in a world where the government is headed by an advocate and a former member of the former totalitarian political organisation, including its Scottish organisations, where it had a high political position, even its president tried to be. But that, gentlemen, doesn't count. There is no argument, it is only humble politics, Katja, the Prime Minister has been elected in this national assembly by the majority of Members and Members in this national assembly, although not all Members and Members of Parliament have, of course, voted in favour of this President. The same is true of course for Mr Kocijancič. He was also elected twice by members and members of the RTV Council as their President. In short, with this illustration, I wanted to say that it is not possible to agree to the the thesis that in some cases democracy and procedures have and are in force and in others not. And one more thing. Statement - quote: "Kocijančiča should be replaced already because the fact that such a person at the top of RTV is not at home and not in the world does not benefit the reputation of public RTV and does not in any way benefit the reputation of Slovenia abroad," the end of the quote also speaks of the character characteristics of the complainant himself. For at least five more generations, it will be necessary to wait for a worldling equal to Janez Kocinachic to be born in the home of the gentleman who made this statement. Other assessments and judgments as set out in this recital are also more or less in the same sub-items. Let me take one again for an illustration. I quote: "that the law should eliminate the corporate transmission of the pre-democratic political representation," the end of the quote. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State whether this means that the Government intends to abolish all corporate institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, including the Council of State, compulsory membership in the Medical Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, or even worse. Now a few concrete views on individual articles. Firstly, there are very few arrangements in EU countries that define broadcasters and communications as part of public service or public television. Therefore, the suspension of the Broadcasting Supervisory Board and the link with other users of this service so far is a non-European solution. Moreover, the government ridicules the withdrawal of policies from the economy and the privatisation of state-owned enterprises. It would, of course, make much more sense if we were already changing the concept and making a new law to completely exclude this activity from the public service of television. Second. In a large part of the European Union countries, the status of public television and public radio is largely separate because it is two completely unrelated institutions. The solution in the proposed law goes in the opposite direction. That is why it is now an opportunity, and here I am giving the idea to the proponents to implement this European standard if we are already changing things. Third. From the point of view of the constitutional definition of the Republic of Slovenia as a social state, the same amount of contribution or TV subscriptions is questionable in relation to the social status of consumers or viewers, listeners and listeners of television and radio. This doubt is in the context of the proposaler's argument referred to in point 2, Objectives and principles, and says: "The law cited will undoubtedly contribute significantly to the realization of the constitutional right of citizens and citizens to information. This will greatly increase the actual potential for citizens to become more actively involved in democratic processes, etc. and so on. "The end of the quote. Therefore, this constitutional right should be guaranteed, which means that anyone can and should have the opportunity to watch a public TV programme, even if he does not have the money for a certain amount of the contribution. Next. The most controversial issue to date has been the change in the contribution or RTV subscription, linked to the government's agreement. Such an arrangement seems to be inadequate for several reasons: it allows political pressure on the current governing structure, prevents longer-term planning, limits the autonomy of the public service. The current proposal for governance and governance has further reinforced this solution, in addition to the fact that out of the 11 members of the Supervisory Board, there are now nine members designated by the Government or by the State Council, it is clear that the impact of each of the current executive powers is more than assured. In addition, of course, there is an added safeguard that the amount of the contribution continues to be fixed and changed by the government. And something else on the subject of the supervisory council. I hope that the applicants are aware, as the Supervisory Board has defined, that they have only two supervisory powers of all; they are all management. If the liability of the members of this supervisory authority is to be the same as that of the members of the supervisory board of an economic society, they should be told already now that members of the supervisory board of RTV will have significantly more responsibilities than the members of the supervisory board. An interesting solution is also found in Articles 11 and 12 of the bill. The first clearly states that political propaganda on public television is prohibited, except, of course, at the time of the electoral campaign and not to say, on the third public television programme. But what's more interesting is Article 12, which says first [[Quote]] That "religious propaganda is not allowed." Then in the next sentence, he denies it and says [[Quote]] "Faithful propaganda under this law is paid for by advertisements of religious communities." I have a question: So, religious propaganda is allowed, only it can't be paid. This is how this Article 12 can be understood. Since many colleagues have already spoken about Articles 17 and 18, it is a completely non-European and inadequate solution which prohibits members of the RTV Programme Council from being all employees and officials who have acted within the institutions of the European Union. Finally, the definition that, in addition to the two national programmes, we have a special national programme with legal content, which is the third programme, which is a European and global unique. Why? The law specifies exactly what will be broadcast by public TV on its third programme - meetings of the national assembly, the world, the bodies and so on, and of course TV will be sold. It is therefore one of the clearer provisions of this bill, which is non-chalantly equivalent to the sale of laundry powders to the sale of politicians and politicians. The second problem in this solution with this third programme is, of course, the placement of TV sales exclusively into the third programme. Let me point out that TV sales are regulated in the European Union by the European Convention on Cross-border TV and the Protocol itself, which do not distinguish commercial and national programmes in the field of advertising and television. So much for the Europeanity of this work. So the proposed solution is discriminatory to one form of advertising. What were the professional reasons for introducing this segregation, it would be good to hear from the representatives of the Ministry. In the event of prohibition and segregation, commercial television and its foreign owners will be able to make a sovereign decision on the future fate of the Slovenian companies involved in this way of advertising. And that's what foreign competition is going to take. What multinationals have failed abroad, we will do for them at home with this law of ours. In short, I think I have given some reasons to rightly conclude that this proposal for a law is not a good basis for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia, which we are considering today at first reading, is one of those laws that are important for the independent functioning of the public service. RTV Slovenia will still remain an important information factor in our country, and this bill actually gives it the status such a public institution must have: to care for independent and quality and content-rich information to the public at home and in the world. The operation of the world of RTV Slovenia is totally wrong in the current law in some parts. It is otherwise necessary to regulate the work of the Council of RTV Slovenia, since the presidency of this body in the years when it is chaired by a person who is obviously foreign to independent and professional reporting, as it has also justified the resistance of journalists, particularly when it comes to interferences with the programme, which has been assessed on several sides as attempts to censor. What freedom and independence of journalistic work in national radio broadcasting is paid by all taxpayers, so we can even talk if such a person has nothing hard in his hands and has been set up for purely political reasons. Today, we are deciding whether the proposal for a marriage text is suitable for further consideration, and I am surprised that the demands of the current opposition are to try in every way to display this bill in a bad light. I am surprised, of course, because I would expect them to be constructive and ready to improve the legal proposal if possible, but not to defend the latter or one of the last trenches of their political influence on the functioning of an institution which should be professional and objective by nature and should avoid political influence. However, this is the problem of the current opposition and people can see who and what certain political options stand for when they meet on television. This also reflects public opinion polls, whose results speak for themselves, and they do not need to be commented on at all. I would point out that the adoption of this law will increase the effectiveness of the entire information system of this public institution. More emphasis will be placed on the responsibility of all those involved in creating RTV Slovenia programmes, which, of course, is based on journalistic autonomy and professionalism. The aim of this public service is to do their work in the best way possible in the interests of users, who are all also the providers of their services. Therefore, it is certainly right that, by adopting this law, listeners and audiences, as viewers and viewers of RTV Slovenia programmes, have the opportunity to directly propose their candidates for RTV Slovenia. The new Radio Television Act will enable Slovenia to provide reliable information shows that will provide comprehensive information on the political developments at home and abroad, as well as housing, provide quality educational programmes, provide broadcasts that reflect the lives and problems of the various population structures. We will therefore, of course, support the proposal of the law, because I believe it is appropriate for further consideration. And I expect that the law will be passed as soon as possible and that it will be enforced.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Robert Battelli. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The contribution of the Italian programmes of Radio Television Koper - Capistria to the development of radio television in Slovenia, as well as the wider development of these activities by the Slovenian minority in Italy over the decades, is in fact invaluable. Everyone who knows this stuff knows that well. In the context of European integration, this contribution can be even greater and richer. The tradition of these programmes for decades is such that they are not only reference but are outwards. And they're enriching the space they're operating in. On this basis, I sincerely hope that the government or the government will be aware of this and that it will be able to listen to the proposals of the national communities to establish the status of national programmes, their programming and financial autonomy within the public institution of RTV Slovenia and that the visibility and visibility of these programmes will be protected or extended in the future. The adoption of this law is very fast, but there is still time and room for the final product to be addressed to the actual needs of public broadcasting in Slovenia, including the minority dimension, and I hope that further steps will be taken to harmonise the position so that this law can also be welcomed by the national communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! If today's democracy of equal opportunity, respect for human rights and freedoms were to ask people whether they are for heteronomy or autonomy, most would probably quickly decide that their autonomy is closer to them. Of course, independence or some kind of freedom does not merely bring about autonomous decision-making or failure to comply with any rules, but also responsibility for the consequences of decisions that have arisen on the basis of this autonomous will. He himself would have decided on some independence and freedom, but with the knowledge that greater freedom also bears greater responsibility. If we look at the state of the institution today, we find that the institution is operating on a multibillion-dollar loss, that the number of viewers or listeners is lower, it is also said that the programme loses its fight against competing private media, despite the fact that the institution has a stable, predictable and systemic source of funding. This merely shows that the applicant's claim that the institution is in a serious management crisis is correct. Now the question is, Who is responsible for such a situation? Who? The Board of the Agency or the Agency may be the President of the Council, or is it the Director-General, who has some formal responsibility for some of the limited powers? All I know is that employees in this office aren't responsible, employees who are responsible and professionally doing their job, and I don't think we can tell them anything. I would like to say something else about the claim already made here today to abolish the civil administration of this institution by this law. I will not go to the debate about who was in totalitarian or whatever, but we cannot go beyond the fact that the President of this world is a clearly profiled political person. If we remember, we have already decided on important functions several times in this assembly, and whenever a proposal came from us - or often, many times - you have told us that it is political recruitment, that politics is interfering, that it is, I don't know, called "our people" and similar things. However, in no case were these candidates or candidates party members, even less former or active members of the party management, but at least that any of them would even be president, even if he was a former political party. So I'm wondering if we can stop anything if it's not. Because in my opinion, as long as this is the occupation of this world, this civil governance is very limited. And in the end. I am convinced that the bill is a good one, so I will support it that it is suitable for further consideration in order to allow for transparency and business performance and, last but not least, security, stability for these 2,000 and some people who are also employed in this institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Friend, SNS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we particularly welcome the fact that the law is put into the procedure following a regular procedure, so that we will have the opportunity and opportunity to say everything that has been done so far good and bad and to propose everything that needs to be changed in the existing proposal. My colleagues have already voiced criticism of the so-called incorrect reporting of political developments in the space through a national woman that we know is essentially a public institution, RTV is a non-profit organisation and is paid by taxpayers. That is why it is so necessary and urgent to think about the fact that the Slovenian public will be informed objectively about what is happening in this temple of wisdom, about the third programme, and it is urgent and necessary that we do and do it as soon as possible. The subscription is the part that we are very interested in, and we are advocates that in fact the household should not be further burdened financially in this area and should not be further burdened by some new household law with payment. The broadcast on TV Koper, I also talked about it myself, Minister, you haven't answered me yet, it's mostly in Italian. Even when it is in the Italian language - I have no objection - there are no matters subtitled in the Slovenian language. Slovenian journalists work more than Italian colleagues and are paid less. So, we also have inequality here and that is why I would also like this matter to be, in fact, in Primorske, TV Koper is seen in the area of the whole of Slovenia - done to such an extent that it is reasonable and accessible to all, but also satisfactory for Slovenes beyond the border. I would also like to highlight what some here have been alerting today, namely the inequality in funding for other regional, private and television broadcasters. We know that the ratings of the other programmes are almost better than my colleague has already said before me, than the ratings of national television. And that is why it is inappropriate not to think about other non-national television houses getting something from this subscription - or whatever we call it - and thus should also ensure greater transparency of data from local communities. We know that these houses could also be a service service for the national television house and could also service events from local communities, so that in fact the Slovenian public could be better informed about developments in the regional area. I will consider making an amendment myself, I am also a member of the parent working body, and in this context I will probably also oppose the current decision of the Constitutional Court, which decided that Article 82 is unconstitutional. In this law, there is an opportunity and an opportunity for us to correct this injustice to other television houses and radio stations that are, and that is why we will have the opportunity to talk about it. Speaking of what the programme is today, I would also like to say that equality is not actually ensured. The faults that my colleagues have been alerting to occur to the smaller ones to a greater extent, to a lesser extent. Therefore, it should also be considered that, in essence, the new law ensures equality of presence in the media when it comes primarily to the national themes that we are addressing in the National Assembly. As we can see in general, we support the proposal of such a law in the Slovenian National Party, but we will consider how to complement it in an appropriate and constructive manner. I hope that we will also receive the support of other colleagues in other parties with appropriate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Miss Eva Irgle, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Minister for Culture, honourable Members, honourable Members! The regulation under the current law on RTV Slovenia has proved to be extremely poor. It has led to a crisis of governance, billions of losses and also to poor programming content, which, as a result, also leads to poor competitiveness against commercial televisions. The arrangements so far are also far from the arrangements that are in place in most European countries. The proposal for a new law will finally bring us closer to European standards and achieve journalistic autonomy and the end of media politicisation. The bill that we are considering today is entirely in line with the European Union's legislation, which we cannot claim to be valid for the time being. In spite of the opposition's opposition, the necessity of our day-to-day programme has also become the third programme on Radiotelevision of Slovenia, since, apart from the fact that practically there is no more country in Europe that does not have such or otherwise parliamentary programme, it is impossible to provide citizens with objective information about political events. It is funny, however, that it is those who should insist on transferring meetings from the National Assembly and its home work bodies that defend this in every way. Why? However, this is the greatest possible democratic approach to conveying our thoughts and evaluating a problem to the general public. Therefore, I am reluctant to think that you are afraid that people might have access to direct information, and not just information selected at the discretion of a director or editor. The media, which are considered to be serious houses, mostly reports on events that I think are in the sphere of populism, but the things we are dealing with do not show the real picture. So for now we must rely on, thank God, the common sense of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we need to provide these citizens with, or enable, direct transfer to be able to look at the situation in the National Assembly and create themselves a realistic picture of events that they have not been able to do by means of manipulated reports so far. It is also important that Slovenia, as one of the youngest democracies in Europe, enables the widest range of citizens to become aware of Parliament's functioning as one of the fundamental institutions of democratic regulation. Through the direct transfer of Parliament's work, we can show all people, especially those coming from younger generations, how we work in politics, how we give a realistic view of politics, but not that everything is happening too often now that most people have a distorted picture of Parliament's work. And it is no wonder that they view politics as a dirty business, instead of viewing it as an activity that serves all people. Parliament's work is on the charts of public research in the lowest places, and our work is seen on average as poor. Have you ever wondered why? Of course, there can be several possible answers here. However, I have two things coming to me: whether we have to change our approach to our work or whether we really have people looking at us or not looking at the wrong picture. No matter what the answer is, we will certainly achieve a better climate through the third programme and the new RTV law. And I hope that this also leads to a higher position on the charts of public research. For this reason, I am certainly in favour of amending the now-in force law on RTV, which, once again, is absolutely necessary and will certainly allow for greater pluralisation in the media field and thus a more realistic picture of the work of Parliament and of all those who are shaping this political space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar, New Slovenia has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u89	Hello, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, all those who accompany us today! Most of the time, we now revolve around three words: professionalism, addiction and accessibility. Well, expertise. So far, there has been as much expertise as there is here today, but if the report on RTV's work points to a major human and financial disorder and if almost half of the RTV employees are without adequate education according to the regulations? So, is it really so much if the critical public - not the screaming public, but the critical public - points out media imbalance in Slovenia? And is it really so much if you were on the radio a while ago, on television, from the mouth of a respected journalist, that in recent years being a journalist was not so difficult if you were writing things and favored by the political authorities back then? I don't know if this has affected the development of expertise and the development of a research vein. On the other hand, it must have hindered thinking with its head, and it must have been a difficult task if there were so many on the payroll as a contractual one, as an external collaborator. What can quickly arise here is a question or instruction: If you don’t write it, someone else will, since we have a hundred and a hundred left to write it. So I'm already going to that other point of dependence or independence. It would be a little funny to know today about the political beliefs of the President of the RTV Council and I am pleased that colleague Juri has said that he is a representative of a party who is legitimately sitting also in this Chamber. I therefore wonder whether the legitimacy of all of us, as well as the elected parties, is questionable and whether what we say is merely political and, at the same time, no longer professional. And another question was, who's going to evaluate what's objective and independent? Just someone, just like before, and those like before -- viewers, viewers, listeners, headphones. However, I don't think I need to explain in particular how opposition and positional colours had to be redistributed, so that on the radio and on television a favourable report on the success of the government's work on 3 October 2004 has suddenly become a very critical and harsh report on the functioning of the current government. So, I'm wondering, is all this noise that's somehow being played out by civil society representatives really true? I am surprised that there has never been so much dust raised before, yet it has been known that the existing legislation is not the most excellent or not so good. And more than that, there was no special will to make this right. And we're talking about accessibility. Because I promised my former coworkers when I was acting as an MP that I would say that there is no RTV signal, not just her, but a few others, but many who do not have a quality signal. Let RTV become national, so that the signal can be accessible to all citizens and citizens. A while ago, I was wondering why we were afraid to use the words of the state, the state, the state. I don't see anything wrong with that. We are, not least, representatives and Members of the National Assembly, but also public workers, and vice versa; therefore, this national and public relationship sounds more like a threat to me. But I'm sure there's a lot of good stuff on RTV, and that RTV can do a lot of good. To make this important mission easier, the government has drawn up a law to improve this situation. Honourable Members and Members of Parliament, including those who oppose this law and amendments, even in my firm belief, the political impact on the public institution of RTV must necessarily be reduced and the autonomy of journalists must be increased. Personally, I think this is the most important and important task of the new law, so I will also welcome the further development of Slovenian democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing RTV Slovenia and it is probably not between us, nor in the country, and I think that even in the institution we are talking about, not who would believe that everything in it is arranged as it should be, and that there is no need for us to come up with a formal legal framework for the functioning of this public institution. Well, there's no dispute between us. What we are talking about, and I think we are speaking rightly, is whether what we have before us is a proposal for a law, what is taking steps in the right direction in redefining the formal legal framework for television and radio in Slovenia. My belief, unlike my colleague Mojce, who spoke before me, is that unfortunately not so. This is not a step towards increasing the autonomy of journalists and journalists. This is, unfortunately, a step in the direction of supporting this television. Instead of taking additional steps to protect the quality of this house, we are taking a step in the direction of politicisation, and this direct involvement of politics in the work of radio and television. This is another example in which we are doing exactly the opposite of what we were talking about before the elections: we said that politics would withdraw from the economy. However, today it is obvious that policy changes supervisory councils and administrations in companies in order, and now they claim those who previously promised to withdraw, if, because you have done so before. Perhaps this is an argument, but, I apologize, ladies and gentlemen, this is a teenage argument. Among teenagers, if you get caught smoking, you first tell your father that he smoked, you don't say, I made a mistake, you don't admit that you said something else to do before, and today you're doing something completely the opposite. You don't have to be particularly careful, the government needs, so it's decided, and Janez Janša, the great leader, is here consistent to lead to the end of "the story of the swan song". He'll do what he promised. The editors will be really replaced, they will be replaced, as foretold, indeed, a little later than he wanted, but now he has this power. He will set up the appropriate authorities to put the right people in place, and the matter will go as it should be, he must be admitted, according to the list. Why do we need this in this country? Because today the press is still -- you can think -- hoping to talk about interfering with their autonomy. And the question that the Prime Minister put here the previous time he answered the questions is why citizens and citizens do not protest against reducing autonomy. That, of course, is the wrong question. You should be able to answer the question of how I will answer that those concerned; journalists and journalists say that I am doing the wrong thing; their voice is crucial here. And there would be a lot more to this subject, but we need such a type of television to replace when changes continue to take place in the public administration in line with Mr Virant's plan, where those who do not comply with their assumptions will be replaced so that they do not talk too much about it. When the Council for Higher Education continues to prohibit admission to programmes that have been approved and, as the Rector of the University of Ljubljana has said, because the President of this Council has a personal interest in this - not to be reported on by television. I hope that steps will also be taken and other media will not report this. It's a simple wish behind the whole story. That's not a naive approach. If you make sure your friend is a soldier at the head of the interior ministry and your friend is a soldier on the police principle, if you put up your own prosecutor, and if you put up your TV boss, you're a ruler, a great leader. This is the process we're witnessing to him. And I think that this process is harmful to this country, I think quite frankly. If the former authorities have made mistakes and have not taken a lot of steps towards withdrawal from the economy towards strengthening the public functioning of institutions, institutions as public institutions, then steps should be taken in this direction rather than turn around. And rightly, we could have been told that we were doing bad. Now you can tell us very little because you are doing even worse, you are doing even more steps, additionally, in the wrong direction, in the other direction, and in Slovenia. Let's face it, ladies and gentlemen! This moment you're still like us - you're telling us we're in shock after we've lost power. You're still dizzy by the power you've gained. When you get out of this, you may realize that you are making radical mistakes, including those with academic titles that you can very easily give up everything you have ever said.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Miran Potsch, the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Until I listened to the debate today, I thought that, above all, the Minister of Culture and Mr Grims were, as an expert in the coalition for government or state television, the ones who thought this law was really good. Now I'm listening to you, and I can see that most of you feel that way. I wonder why they think otherwise, or why so far, most journalists and journalists have thought not only in public television, but in journalistic society in general, why they think this is an important part of civil society, why the European Press Federation thinks so after all. I'm surprised you're not ready to listen to any of this. Yesterday, after the press visited the President of the National Assembly, I thought, as an eternal optimist, a ray of hope, but perhaps today there will be no general discussion and gentlemen have found that this is nonsense. Nonsense for two reasons; for the first time, since it is to promise to present opinions, to promise to listen, to promise a regular procedure and at the same time to demand a general discussion already today and to decide already today - pure stupidity, ladies and gentlemen! What will be our presentation of opinions after we find today that the law is excellent, and when you say, because they can speak in order to be seemingly kind and to give the impression that we are not listening to the opposition, because the opposition should not be listened to, but that we have at least a few whispers in front of journalists and journalists, because there may be some who have enough autonomy and independence to not fully obey what the new director and the structure down from it will say. And that's why you seem to have made it a possibility that maybe, although you're talking about it unevenly here today, some say that a presentation of opinions will be organised, some of you still say that the law should be adopted as soon as possible, but even if it is organised, it will not be able to produce any real effect. That is why I think that you would be right to your own opinion that you want the debate to take into account the expertise and the public if you want today to either postpone the debate and leave it earlier to at least be heard, including your own assembly for the Republic, which will also discuss public media - probably also to say something, not after everything is clear - or if the law is rejected. If one or the other is not done today, there will be only great beautiful words for those who believe you, but the truth will be completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The law that we are considering today has been written by the new authorities in great secrecy, so to speak, by conspiracy, mostly in twos and threes. Given that, in fact, the co-authors of this law were in no way able to find out and hear, except for a fellow Member, because everyone else was supposed to be afraid. Whom should I fear, I do not understand: professions, journalists, the public, perhaps us in opposition? I don't know. It doesn't make any sense. And apparently the marriage wasn't written in such a wide circle. But they may fear someone else, especially the new authorities, because this one pays very well and fairly, but he also punishes poorly. There would only be one segment to be presented within the framework of the law as a major democratic acquisition, that is, the way in which new RTV bodies are formed or appointed. This is supposed to be more democratic, as civil society is supposed to replace the general proposal of individuals who could be proposed by universal Slovenia and, of course, democracy is to be achieved. Of course, forget to tell yourself how this will filter out, how these people will then be selected. These people will be appointed by, or elected by, the Janshea Government by the mandate-election commission of hundreds and hundreds of proposed people. It's just that here, colleagues and colleagues, it's hard to talk about true democracy, but it's only possible to talk about the imagination. If that is not the case, then I hope that you will accept the proposal that perhaps these people, who, according to the Minister, are supposed to be wise, will choose - if they are in fact flowers and will be flowers, wise people and the greatest experts - with a two-thirds majority in Parliament. Perhaps this is a solution that would combine a lot of this charge that we hear, but I can see that Mr Grims is already waving, because, of course, with this, the purpose of this law will be greatly, deeply reduced. But this is all I'd say. With this law, Mr Janša will quickly, immediately after the elections, come to his television without having to pay one tolar for it, perhaps like a colleague in Italy, Berlusconi. He won't have to pay for anything. It will settle the matter by supporting public television and convincing people, as I can hear today from most of the discussions of colleagues and colleagues in the position, especially that this was necessary because the programme is so bad. Of course, that's very easy to say, for such things people are very susceptible, the RTV program has never been as good as I remember. He was always bad. Of course, the easiest thing to say is, we're going to change the program, and that's what we guarantee. Of course, everything else is hidden under the rug. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just keep going where my colleague ended up. No! No! Janša doesn't take on television. You are most disturbed by it being taken out of your hands, and I sincerely hope that under this law it will be made available to all the viewership of this nation. This is what I want, and I'm sure this law guarantees. Why? Because we all want an equivalent for all equally consistent reporting. We know, Madam colleague, how it is, say, with the audits of the municipalities and how they stand and how they report on each other and how they report on each other. If I had an audit score like yours in the congregation, I'd hang myself. But let's leave this matter alone, it's a matter of personal judgment and a love of life. Why is this happening? It happens because - someone today defended almost with the fight of NOB Kocjančič. Why? In your opinion, Kocjančič is a completely neutral person, without a political past, because what he did with regard to the presidency or the chairman of the Communist Party, some committees and so on, we do not care about independence anymore. But the belief that is in man never disappears from it, we know that. You can pretend any way you want, otherwise you can't. And then it can happen that, let's say an accounting court, to go back, to some people quietly put their report so little into reading, and the other one stalls until the moment it needs to be triggered as it seems to be the right thing to do. And he calls his colleague, Kardel's grandson, Soltes, who is the president of the Court of Auditors, I'm talking about the correspondence of Kocjančič-Sholtes, and he tells him, and now let's do it. And they're giving and talking about some complaints there, and they don't know what they're talking about, and they're suing someone who doesn't want to, and they're shaking them so little on their system. And it activates all journalists, including television, with cameramen who are "flying" after the National Assembly, looking for a victim, and, of course, when this victim tells them how and what he stands for, they cut off what "feeds" is to this director. But why? You know, this director, Kocjančič, is not just the director of RTV, he is also the president of the Olympic Committee. Oh, now we're there! And then someone shows up in a hockey relationship, who finds out that through it, they've been laundering money, saying that there's losses today, and write at least 700 million tolars. Can you imagine the loss this is, and why? Because there's two "guys" sitting there, one is "coc" one is "al." And, of course, they make deals and washes and the money goes here and there. And then one "breath" comes from Tržič, and he kind of jinxes himself into this relationship and finds out that connection. And of course then Kocjančič remembers, calls Soltes and - here he is, the Court of Auditors. And here we have a whole bunch of articles on the subject of "barabbas," "this Rupar is everything." But to move on. There's a story in Finance, a story about Radio Kričač. Radio Kričač, who was formerly Radio Gorenc, is now said to be of one option. And this same radio and the same screaming thing is being talked about by a fellow opposition behind me, who is in this town, whether in this town or in this neighborhood, and he's being stupid enough not to know where the information is flying from around the world. Well, look, nobody's reporting it. And the law that we have today, thank God, at the table, allows everyone to say a balanced picture, negative and positive, as in democracy, thank God, as usual, but impossible for us. Well, maybe a little more Kocijanic. I don't know if you remember the road safety law. Do you remember how many debates there were about some first aid bags? According to your then Minister Bohintz's proposal, it was in law that we should all have some miraculous first aid in cars that would bring a system of stickers and, here, "save life". Finally, we find that only one factory in Slovenia - Tosama works with such systems or purses. And if you go to look at the ownership of Tosama, then you will see that Mr Aljančič enjoys it most in the denationalisation process. Now look where this painting is going! From the committee, from the role of co-owner to the director or president of the RTV Council. And you hope to say today that RTV is not in the political hands! That RTV is not only narrow and Unidirectional directed into only one option! I'm glad it's another domina in a series of whole species that still stand--but falling, ck, ck, ck, one after the other. I would be very happy if, after all, we really didn't put up other domains, but that all, one white, one black and so on, would be equivalent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u98	Mr. Rupar, allow me just one thing. Not to end it, but I'd like to warn you about something. Please let us talk about the subject we are discussing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u99	Yeah, yeah, I'm talking. Well, and also about my shows on one of the radios. That's what the talk was about, too, and that's RTV, you know, RTV. When the mayor speaks at 12.00 p.m. when other radio stations say they play national entertainment, I must be honest with you that, after measuring obedience, a lot of people enjoy this program and laugh, have fun and take it seriously. But we have moved forward with democracy, and we have given the opposition Member the opportunity to speak on this radio at some point in time, at least in the same way as the parliamentary debate. And you know what happened there? We've come to the results that 60% of the audience in the mayor's or MP's performance enjoys it and 5% vomits. And that's all that's left in the market, LDS. But when a friend comes along, 5% listens to them, and the others throw up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u100	Please, a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I hope I never have to hang myself as mayor, maybe someone else has reason to think about it, I don't. However, I must say that in ten years the municipality of Domžale has been audited three times by the Court of Auditors and has always received a positive opinion. Of course, I would also like to say that, in our municipality, the Supervisory Committee is headed by the opposition, the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee and the majority of the Supervisory Committee, so I think they have the possibility of being examined on this side, and the Supervisory Committee has not actually found any mistakes. However, I would like to comment only on this, it can be so theatrically performed, but this is all in the function of what the Slovenian public in some way welcomes and unfortunately also accepts. In Slovenia, the loser is the one who hopes, the one who breaks the laws, the one who makes fun of the authorities who exercise control, of course, until they are in his hands. Well, and, of course, because that's what this is, but I don't think it's good, and it's not possible to build your own image in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, you've raised your hand. Please, what would you like? Replica. Have you been mentioned? I'm sorry, I didn't catch it. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] I'm sorry, you weren't mentioned. [[..]] I didn't know that, and I can't give you a replica. I'm continuing the debate. Mr. Joseph Scholch, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In particular, I would like to contribute to what will not happen today in order to reject this bill as an inappropriate basis for change if necessary in this area. Look, dear colleagues, I would like to talk a little bit more about the problems raised by this proposed amendment of legislation in this area. According to my opinion, this law on RTV covers what would be called the SDS policy, which attempts to subordinate itself to all the important levers of control and subordination: for the first time state apparatus, for the second time the public sector, for the third time the economy and for the end of the public service, is called the public service RTV. The SDS is systematically subordinated to the office by, on the one hand, adopting the law that we spoke about recently and having, I'll say, free hands to replace so-called incompatible officials. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that these provisions are also being implemented for completely irrelevant cities and, last but not least, this is happening to us, regrettably, even in a national assembly where this should not have happened. That's how we got the U.S. Attorney's replacements, and then there's the police swaps, and there's a lot more. When we talk about the public sector, I would remind you that there is a similar idea and a similar policy here on the march. There has been a lot of talk about the need to take professional opinions into account when appointing to different places or in different definitions. I would remind you that in the biggest public institution we have in Slovenia, the government, as founder, has recently ignored the decision of the professional council when it came to the appointment of the professional director of the clinical centre. This is an integral part of the same policy. Almost self-evidently, the government seems to be the main shareholder in companies and can replace members of the boards' boards where they do not see it and do not resign. It is also part of this policy on the march, which wants to say all the levers - and here we are talking about all-inclusive or, if you want, totalitarian approach - to subordinate the key levers. In this context, of course, I also see the proposed amendment of legislation in the field of the public institution RTV Slovenia. We can only guess what will happen to the proposal for a director who has been legally elected by the current Council and who needs the opinion of the National Assembly, but I am interested in who will take this decision into account. At the same time, the new law is based on greater order — one word. Order is something that makes a big wave of the coalition and it's set up by their main party. Order is something that has more meaning. It's really embarrassing when people who have key levers to decide in their hands talk about order. Orders are large self-reliances in former socialist countries, and this seems to us to be somehow appropriate, but we are not afraid when we talk about this order in Slovenia. Of course, we always see disorder in another person or one who is not of political conviction. Thus, among other things, there must be order on television and radio so that there are no misunderstandings. But when we look at these bill proposals, they basically only bring solutions that allow for the human resources and financial control of this public institution, but they do not bring any new solutions that would enable television and radio to be organised more efficiently and transparently. Thus, it is only true to say that the applicants also refer to the wrong data when they say that the public institution is in large losses. Those who have read or participated in these parliamentary debates will recall that last year the public institution has completed its business positively and that it has some 100 million surpluses in the first three months of this year. So, it's some kind of deception to the public. They are also information on the ratings of the various programmes, television and radio audiences that are lying to proposers about the effectiveness of this policy. Minister, what you're saying is a lie. The public service operates positively at this time, and this is also due to some kind of control carried out by, as was said, the "nezzobi organ". I am surprised, however, that, and it is clear from this that these instruments of certain things can also be achieved, while one of the drafters of this law was also the multi-year President of the Supervisory Council in the public office, but it is fair to say that he reported only once in his entire mandate - it is Mr Grimsk - and that even then the National Assembly rejected this report as extremely ill-prepared and imprecise. This didn't happen later. Thus, it is only necessary to say that things in some way need to be rejected in full. We can discuss individual solutions and fall into this trap, if we need to fix this, one and the other. It is likely that this will also need to be done in the next reading stages if this happens. And when Kardelj was mentioned here, I can't say that I wouldn't say that he was actually sneaking into the minds of those who wrote this law and explain it. What are they saying? It is embarrassing that we have some intermediaries who translate the interests of civil society into the management of this public institution, but that it is necessary, as has been said at times, to unite this to ensure the direct influence of listeners, listeners, viewers and viewers. What is more than this Cardelian concept, which does not recognise that society is structurally vaccinated to have leverages. But Mr Grimms is obviously living at this time, and I am surprised that he has not yet restored the socialist relationship that then translated these direct interests fairly into various management systems. Perhaps this is something I have overlooked, and the role of the SZDL is played by the coalition, and the role of the leading or avant-garde in this SZDL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler, SLS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members! I will personally support this law in the general debate, and I am very pleased that there has been a general debate. And I myself have contributed to the fact that I have signed, upon request, a reference to the inclusion of this law and this debate in an extraordinary meeting. It is very important that we talk about this in the general debate today in the National Assembly. I am personally very interested in some opinions, and I have been interested, and I will listen to them in the future, so that I can also identify myself with some of the proposals of the law that are written in that law. However, in my own way, I am very disappointed when I listen to the observations of the one and the other, the left and the right, but no one wonders why and who and how it is to blame for these readings today, and what was actually happening in our national house. And if anyone here trusts me to say that there was no influence, political, on what was happening in the national house, I hope to tell him in front of the entire Slovenian public that he is a great liar. Like all of us who are discussing here today, we are talking, and we have some contacts. We also get information, and for example, we remember the presidential elections back, such as the media, and this is Slovenian national television, "tore up" one of the presidential candidates, such as Dr. Francet Arhar. Because someone made a very positive character because that's when the nationalist was preparing all the presidential candidates for the portrait. And if someone made too much positive, there was a demand for change, too much talk about it. And if anyone from the previous term of office from the largest ruling party of the time claims that no one from the party or the party's top had any influence in the presidential elections, or whether he was grappling or exerting pressure on the individuals employed in this house, I hope him again in this place with all the responsibility to say that he is lying. I regret that some journalists, including editors, do not hope to speak publicly about what is happening inside the house. There have been pressures, and probably in every democratic society and in every democracy, pressures are one way or another, the question is how far and how far the existing authority, the legislative authority, permits and comes to this. On my own, I was somewhat disappointed at the previous proposal, when there were no regional centres Maribor and Koper in the draft law. We have worked very hard in the Slovenian People's Party and have also achieved that in the third article they are specifically mentioned, as in the previous law, both the Maribor Regional Centre and the Koper Regional Centre. We Styers or our region want our autonomy in this area as well. And in any case, respected colleagues and colleagues, if we ever get the provinces, regions: these regional centres are urgently needed for autonomy. And I will also tell you what our demands for the Slovenian People's Party's Members' request will be, given that we come from a government coalition, with regard to the law itself. Since the coalition has written down in its coalition contract that we are for decentralisation, this does not mean that we are only for decentralisation in the field of government institutions, including in the field of this national house. Therefore, our proposal - and, Minister and everyone else, listen well - that in Article 17 where we are talking about the composition of the Programme Council, we change the representation of the political parties, which have 5 members, that is to say, to stay and 16 members is appointed by the National Assembly - that is to say that we will change the membership of the 12 members by appointing a National Assembly. But 12 members from 12 statistical regions! That he will be one member from each statistical region in this world, which will be appointed by the National Assembly. Thus, the pomur region will have one member, Podravska, Kororska, Savinjska, Zasavska, Lower Posavska, South-Eastern Slovenia, central Slovenian region, Goranjska, Inland-Kraška, Goriška and Coastal-Kraška region. And this is fair - provided that in the last six months they have a permanent residence in this statistical region. But let the National Assembly name them, or there will be no vote for this marriage. And if the coalition has set itself a decentralisation, no one will convince me - no one! - that there are no experts from these regions who could be proposed by the university and everyone else, as it says here, to this programming council. Because it's in this area that I see decentralisation. And if anyone thinks there's been no lobbying on our Slovenian national, they're fucking wrong. Let me give you an example of when a Mariborian applied for a place, a human man, an employee, an editor also on a Maribor radio, and I can honestly tell you that when we spoke, I told him in advance that he had no opportunity because he was too centralized and could not break through this lobby so that he could reach the most responsible place on Slovenian nationality. And that's the truth. Take a look! If we want to maintain the regional centres, it is also very important that both Koper and Maribor are equal partners. And if we look at the number of employees, there are 296 in Cyprus, and 136 in Maribor with Lendava. If we also compare the amounts in grants, we can also see that there are large differences. They do, however, the mutual interest and the exact same programmes, both of them. And they're both important to these programs. When I listened today to the testimony of some individuals at the expense of the President of the Council, at the expense of some others, I would like to say that everyone must take responsibility for himself. No one will personally convince me that the President of the Council is not politically defined. It is, however, a well-respected opposition, today you also assume responsibility that you yourself have caused your previous act, when you have also allowed such or other institutions to come to and launch such a debate today. I'm coming from Maribor. In Maribor we also have a new editor of the regional television programme, and no one will personally convince me of what his political definition is, depending on where I come from and who the immediate family members are running for. But its political definition is very evident and implemented in the programme itself. Therefore, I can honestly say that I rarely turn on this program and when I turn it on, all I see is faces coming from the left field of Slovenian politics. This is wrong, and it can't happen in the future. It's not right, it's not fair and it's not right when we're talking about a national. Given that the public in this Chamber today also follows us through the media, I have received from one viewer an email that I will read so that you can understand this performance of mine: "Dear Member! I'm watching for a TV debate on RTV. I welcome the integration of the fuse that, after the end of my term of office, I will not have to watch any gentleman in the RTV world for the next 15 years", my fellow Member, and, as now, Mr Kocjančič. I will be tolerant of not appointing my fellow Members here. "But I don't understand the talk about the establishment of the third programme, and other programmes even [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] regional broadcasts only a few hours, substantially less than private NET TV and RTS in Maribor. [[..]] It is necessary to make more use of the possibilities of both regional centres," this is his opinion, as well as mine, "but it needs to get a little more financial energy from the centre. Let's take a look in Austria, which is four times as big and has two TV programs and three radio programs. Nice greeting to you and one of the coalition parties," I won't call one, "a little more clever." Josie. R. from Maribor. That is why it is very important what will be the next image of our Slovenian national. But it's important that we talk about this today. As I have already said, Mr. Minister, it is good to remember our request under Article 17, given that we are well aware of the coalition agreement and our position as a member of the group is that we also accept the notification we received from the RTV Slovenia press union that we appoint one member from the Maribor regional centre and also from the Koper regional centre to the world of RTV. Why shouldn't we have a representative if they're in their own? [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Located units, I think it's very important that they have that these lobbyists will no longer do what they do in their own way inside the house. [[...]] This is very important for us, for the Slovenian People's Party. And if we talk about this, then let us also give in this area, in the field of Slovenian national television, a decentralisation and give the opportunity and opportunity also to some other people who are able to perform apolitical functions on Slovenian nationals. I would have finished with that slowly. I hope that I have not harmed anyone by my performance, but I will support the proposal in the first reading or general debate, and I also expect the government coalition to take into account our views on Article 17 on the composition of representation across regions. And in view of the previous discussions I had with my colleagues, both in the coalition and with some in the opposition, I have no doubt that we would not have reached a compromise, and we have also ensured this in the concept of Article 17. I hope and wish the government would follow. We do not substantially change, but ensure even representation in Slovenia's national house from all over Slovenia, as we have suggested, according to a model of 12 statistical regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I don't know where my colleague Paul Rupar has the moral right to be so ruthlessly moralized as to be embodyed in innocence and honesty. But enough about my friend Rupar. I will touch only Article 18 and only in that part that speaks of who should not be elected or appointed to the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. The drafter of the Moratorium law provides for a 10-year moratorium, or 10-year period, which is certainly the longest period, if not in Europe or the world, but certainly in Europe. Therefore, those persons who have been on appointment or for a period of ten years before that at a specified post or place of employment may not be elected to this function. And let me first mention us Members and Members of the National Assembly from this list. Ten years from now, none of you or us sitting here will be allowed to run for the world of RTV Slovenia or for any other important function in the system of public television and radio. It is clear that in our country, the most contaminated profession has become a member of the National Assembly. Of course, it's a kind of illustration. I therefore wonder whether the inconceivable government is also preparing so-called lustration legislation, which has inadvertently ended two mandates back in this national assembly. If it is to judge by the unfortunate package of war laws sent by the government to the National Assembly, we can expect many things. In addition to Members of the 10 years of the public service of RTV Slovenia and on television or radio, European Members, officials and staff in the bodies of the European Union, members of the political parties’ boards, democratics, not to be confused, presidents, ministers, state secretaries, state councillors, mayors, constitutional judges, directors and secretaries in public administration, even heads of administrative units and even municipal secretaries. Two days ago, you easily settled the former Minister of Bajuk's government, Barbara Brezigar, for the Attorney-General's Office, in a coalition, and not five years had passed since its ministerial office. 10 years of moratorium for all these functions. Does it not seem to you, respected colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, that this is a matter of common sense, and in this latter case even double-faced? But even in practice so far, there are some anomalies that may even be contrary to the Constitution. I get stabbed again and again, especially on the radio and in other media, by calls for various editorial posts on the radio and television. When the exclusion criteria are specifically read and stressed that they must not apply for the invitation to tender, I repeat, not to report, Members of the National Assembly and members of the political parties' leadership. Is this not contrary to Article 49 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that "every person under the same conditions has access to every job"? Perhaps the matter is even mature for constitutional review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Today, when we discuss after ten years some amendment to the Public RTV Act, we are witnessing a violent cry from all registers. And when colleagues Kumer, Gaber, Orazmova, Potch yell here, I fully understand them. I fully understand them that it is very difficult for them, because any improvement in the direction of pluralisation and depoliticisation of RTV bothers you terribly. Of course, you're hiding it in other flossules. And of course it bothers you, and it pains you because you realize that you have been running RTV for the past 60 years with a very hard hand and that you have practically to date had absolute power. No matter who's appointed director under this law. Even if we were to make a metropolis director in any case, you would still be putting pressure on the press and in the power of the press. As a result of this, Gaber’s performance here was actually worthy of a diplomat and the most zealous student of Dolance’s leminate, former FSPN. I am sure that Shirca will also perform and shout on behalf of her professionalism, but I am just warning her that, when she refers to her expertise, she should not throw away again any culturer from Prlekia in Prekmurje and claim that Ljutomer is part of Prekmurje. At the same time, I wish that journalists would never again be under the same pressure as they were when they had the absolute authority of Kocjančič's boys in this country. This is at a time when some of the current ideologies of journalistic independence of the LDS were faithfully assisting them, then under the auspices of the Union of Socialist Youth. Today I think there are only a few mercenaries who knowingly claim what is not in this marriage. This law is progress in any case, and see, once again, I stress, you are very afraid that something will change in the media field. Slovenia is the only country in Europe where print media is not relatively distributed left, right or relative to political influence. Those who had absolute power over the media, which you absolutely commanded, with the help of the state and the para-state through capital connections, through informal centres of power, have moved to the ownership of these media and to all levels of power in RTV as well. And now it's really hard for you to move anything. You're in a millimeter of pain. What does that mean? When this majority offers you a third programme that will pass through the National Assembly, which in normal countries every opposition fights with all its strengths, which is actually a donation to the opposition, you object because you know that this mirror will come from this house, because in the print media they will have to report in real terms what is going on here. We do have a case, I support the journalists, and I realize that they are under terrible pressure, that they have to report slightly frified on the basis of the pressures of capital owners. When we talked about TIMSS 2003, the main criticism came at the expense of the former school minister and the parties who made all this school heartburn in the past. Yes, but they report mainly to Gabru and Tropati. They have a capital, not those criticisms that the international community is committed to such things. This majority literally altruistically offers you a third programme that you do not accept. Only after this has been changed, when there is a little more real public information, do you have the opportunity, your customers, to become European profiled, normal customers. So far you haven't been and you haven't been because you've been using these mechanisms of power. I think that this law is actually a big step forward. Maybe you need to upgrade it with some things. I think that we have always been open to good proposals, which, in fact, are now not offered by those who yell the most, as has been found many times. I hope that they will come on a day with some solutions in a European direction, such as in other European countries, that Slovenia will not be the most closed-ended area in Europe. This law allows some progress to be made here, and I hope it will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca. Would you like to? Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u111	I was mentioned in the context of the warnings, namely, Mr Jerovšek wanted to remind me of what I should discuss and how I should discuss further or in relation to Mr Dolanec or in any other context. I will certainly not and must not discuss in this National Assembly in an editorial manner, in the way of assessing editorial content, because freedom is once again guaranteed in Slovenia and the right to freedom of expression, it is also said that decisions, including programme content, are either public television or any other is unlimited. In this context, I will not discuss what the coalition has been doing all day, as if the law had already been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, you've raised your hand. Why is that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would warn Mr Jerovská that this House does not have Canon law and that all 90 of our Members are equal and equal. In the discussion we can say what we want, you always stand out of it and teach us as diplomats of this National Assembly. I would like to point out once again, every thought and every fact that I have said today regarding the introduction written in this law, I have expressed the idea of rejecting the lies and lies that are spreading in the preparation and discussion of this law. No more and no less. And that's what I'm gonna do in this national council all the time. Can I say it all the way? One more time. In this introduction of the law there are countless lies, falsehoods and "foolishness" repeated three minutes ago by colleague Jerovšek. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, you've raised your hand. Here you go. Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u115	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u116	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u117	Here, of course, Jerovšek said many things, but he also said some obvious truths. I now intend to admit here that I have led television for 65 years and not only 60 years, because you understand, 60 only, I apologize, a mistake, Mr Jerovšek. Keep an eye out for the second time when quoting this way. What I am particularly grateful for is that you explained again, as one of your colleagues did before, is that you went and explained what content you do not like about the media. That's what this is all about. You want to edit programs, that's the core of this story we're talking about today. Just act like that, let me explain something else! Tell me more where you didn't like the show. You don't mind the state of television, you don't mind the financial situation, you don't mind the way it is with the organisation of television - you want to see that maybe you and Mr Grims for the next 65 years just directly regulate TV programs in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich, LDS, has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u119	Although I thought I knew Mr Jerovsk quite well after all these years, but it always surprises me over and over again. He may have had the impression that everything started since 3 October and that since 1 May last year we are not in Europe and that those parties who then led this government in Slovenia and preparations for the European Union have done so illegally, in guests, on a black and non-legal and non-democratic basis, and have led the parties who have yet to make a thorough change, now that they have the opportunity to listen and watch television programmes and radio programmes, because they will be designed as you wish. Today, we are really not discussing who will regulate, how to regulate, and what kind of program it should be. But all the time and all the more so. A lot of people don't like it, and neither do I. But that's not our job, that's not what we'd like to do, so we're fixing the TV. In 1994, there was a very large debate in the National Assembly on the need for policy to withdraw from the National Assembly [[?]] . To date, only five representatives have appointed a national assembly on a proposal from political parties. If this is what the presence of politics is - today it has already been mentioned, which all representatives were, whose groups they represented, civil society and so on, in the world of RTV. How an individual works. I never needed to discuss with anyone how they had an impact on editorial policy, how they put editors and so on. However, I had a very great need to discuss what is so easily called European Comparative Reporting by the National Assembly. And because we need to look first at how this is going to be in Europe, and you will find out - and this is what our research centre in the National Assembly did in the previous mandate to make comparisons in Europe - and you will see that the two countries do not have the same structure. And what arrangement do you refer to in Europe? In all these discussions, ours has always been a commitment to what is possible - and material resources have also been provided for this, a TV studio has been set up - a possible withdrawal of the signal directly from each session whenever any television wants it. And you can trust me that all the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, which you requested from the opposition, were broadcast directly by national television, because it was the will of the governing body, the editorial policy. Maybe we wouldn't even be interested in it being tolerated. They did. All the ones you wanted to be tolerated. And everything else is a lie that it wasn't possible that I didn't know what, and so on. When the law on RTV appeared on the agenda, at least so has been the case since 1994 and in the meantime, the talk has always been about how to ensure the independent status of this house, especially after providing material conditions. We once had a particularly long discussion about this, because the RTV subscription was cancelled or not to be collected, so we invented a quasi contribution to this public television so that we could even secure some fundraising and so on. And if we were to worry about asking ourselves what our work is in this national assembly, if the state is obliged to worry that the public institution of RTV has the conditions to carry out its mission in this society and that within this body of execution, the authorities responsible for it are performing their functions, then certainly there would be no place here to debate what kind of programme we like and what programme we don't like. This is not our job, as it is not our job to put into certain specific matters in certain other matters when we are discussing the situation in companies and so on. I believe that you need to demonstrate this determination at the beginning of your term of office that you want to make some arrangements. And that came first. All right. Since I know we can't stop this or at least slow down this process, I can only give my voice. But believe that not all good intentions are always pressured elsewhere than in hell.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u121	I'm glad to surprise Mr. Anderlich. But I'd be glad if you didn't misquote me and misinterpret me. Because he inspired me to say that programmes would be designed as we would like. I'm going to stand up for the independence of the press. But I said that you, your customers can profile normally European when you no longer rely on the fear of journalists to act by reporting as you wish. Remember, Mr Anderlich, your behavior on the Echoes when you told the journalist Janji Koren if you don't ask me what I wanted, I won't answer. And you're up. Do you remember? You know, you used to be very elegant with the press. Those who had previously replicated to me all went "ad hominem" not "ad rem". Majda Shirca was answering something. I only asked her not to claim once again, on behalf of her expertise, that he was a Ljutomer in Prekmurje, but that Karl Grossman was a Prekmurec and not a Prlek, but to represent this as a high expertise. That's all I asked her to do. But she was answering a completely different ad homino. I hope you're able to answer "ad rem." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, you've raised your hand. Did you raise your hand? Because I noticed, that's why I asked you. Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a fellow Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Hello, everyone who is watching this session in any way! I must first express my satisfaction that there has been a broad debate today on the proposal for the law on RTV Slovenia. Although I would like to make a number of concrete proposals myself in terms of improving the proposal, unfortunately there has been no trace of them so far. The media, especially Slovenian public broadcasting, are obviously a complex issue, so it certainly deserves a renovation in an organisational sense. Many in Slovenia still claim that the media are a reflection of reality, so what the media are reporting has actually happened. In short, the media are reflecting reality. That doesn't even hold. We can learn from the press textbooks that the media always construct reality, it is said, that we read the media's reality, not what really happened. There are so many things happening in this world that it is absolutely impossible for all to be represented in mass media. Some researchers say that even 1% of the events or representations of these events do not occur in mass media. That's not the truth. News is products, they're media products. The media are constructing reality, which is why the media are now crucial and therefore journalism is such a very important profession. We live in a time of mass media. Never before in the history of mankind has it mattered so much what is on television, what is on the radio, what newspapers say, what is it today. A few decades ago, for example, the main institution was socialisation, or school, or church, or family. Today, we are already finding that the media are those who mostly socialize and determine what lifestyle to choose, what is right, what is wrong, whose values are fulfilled and which are not. The media was set up to control and supervise the three branches of government. The fundamental, basic function of classical quality journalism is monitoring, controlling the authorities, transparency of the work of politicians, large public services, corporations, financial and others. This, of course, is done on behalf of citizens and their rights to be informed afterwards. Now, of course, this function is melting, it is being lost, because it is no longer important content, what is relevant to us is "look", it is important to look, it is an important image. What is important is this bloody image and self-image, because the press release is already changing from a journalistic discourse to an advertising discourse. There is increasing advertising and less and less press coverage in terms of information relevant to citizens. The present proposal of the law on RTV Slovenia does not give journalists any clues. Don't let anyone be afraid of that. Nor will anyone who does what is fair and proper put himself in jail, as in the past, for example, happened to my esteemed uncle, or to a recognised Slovenian economic journalist. The right to be informed is certainly one of the fundamental human rights. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia living in Prekmurje probably also have the right to listen to Radio Fire. So I must disappoint you. They don't have that right, these Prekmurskis. Despite the new applications in the past to the relevant institutions, despite the 5,000 signatures collected, they do not have this right. Once there was a missing comma in the role, the second time there was a dead end. Who, Your Honor, can explain this media blockade to me today? Who can explain to me the multiple failure of the radio frequency, which I think is public good? Otherwise, it is true that this topic does not belong to today’s agenda. But my contribution to supporting the proposed law is falling short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Davorin Terchón, LDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Various evaluations and qualifications have been made here both around the quality of the program to the partiality of the public institution RTV Slovenia. Besides, I have to say that I'm not the most loyal viewer and listener, but it's true that I hear a lot of things. True, some are satisfied with the program. As for neutrality, I'd say so. So far, with the neutrality of RTV Slovenia, everyone has been dissatisfied. The opposition, the current position, has already expressed a number of qualifications, both today and in previous mandates, which have spoken of being highly dissatisfied and appreciating television as a political one. However, I must say that even among my colleagues, when I was still in position, I heard a number of criticisms, especially on this account of how television reports. Of course, we have stumbled upon the fact that television and equipment are made up to ensure maximum neutrality and that we have a difficult influence as politicians on this public institution. I would like to say something about, in essence, the most controversial part of the law, which is also about, the appointment of the Programme Council: the last indent of Article 17, paragraph 5. This indent is written very fondly. Most in the programming world are even proposed by viewers and listeners, in addition to societies and others, and therefore this should be democratic. But you have to say to the end, they're just going to propose, because we know how this is going to go. Now, whether there will be a few thousand suggestions, you will choose who suits you, or you will suggest to someone who will apply to choose them again. You're not going to do that, all of you, colleagues and colleagues in your position, you're going to take care of it, you're just going to press the button. And this mass, these sixteen, will have a decisive impact on the appointment of a director, who will then be both programme, professional and managerial, who will have these two bodies, says the Director and the Programme Council. And it's gonna be all about them. They would play a decisive role in the appointment of directors of radio and television, programming and so on. And here is the essence of the problem of why neutrality has been violated and why this television will be public instead of public, because we have a system so far, it has become state. We had a system that called the highest authority directly. I'm asking you if you've gone one step further and you've said that even viewers and listeners will suggest why you can't find an instrument without proposing to name it. But you'll name them, you'll name them that you want. You'll name yours. That's a fact. If you want to take a step forward, find the instruments that they will name. If these instruments have been poor and only some have been taken into account, because you too will not be able to, as you state in your explanation, that a few thousand have been neglected by these professional and civil organisations - of course, they have not been mentioned because it is impossible to make an operational body. You won't take them all into account either, because there's only sixteen of them. You will consider sixteen who, in my opinion, will answer you. They will then appoint a director, because they will have a decisive impact, and the director knows what he will have to be like, because he will then have an impact on the programme scheme after all. Even worse, it seems to me that you are now working on state television on public television and that this state television will continue to be paid by taxpayers with a contribution. If you have already made your own television, then at least what it is, make funding at least from the state budget if you are already the administrators of the state budget. Now the taxpayers, regardless of their beliefs, will pay for the troby of one political option. Everybody! It's unhygienic, it's very unhygienic. Public television has a lot of problems. I said that with regard to her neutrality, everyone is critical. Perhaps even this is good because if only one of us were satisfied, the other critical, there would be something already suspicious, which means that she could even be neutral. Problems are financial. I wonder how it is possible in one small country of Slovenia that one public office has 2,000 employees and between 1,000 and 3,000 fees! To spend 70% of the income that goes into tens of billions on personal income, as we read in the newspaper today. That it's one giant mastodon. But you didn't do anything to fix this. All you want to know is a command scheme that will be political. What did you do? You've done something else. You say the government can prescribe a contribution up to 10% by 1 September next year. But the government has a 3% inflation target, Mr. Minister, if you remember. Does this mean that taxpayers will pay even more than their income, more than inflation, to make it an even bigger mastodon?Oh, my God! Ask yourself what we're doing. I'm really afraid of what's going on. In the functioning of RTV, I would expect the co-financing of regional RTV to take place. I'll tell you what the problem is. RTV also requires payment from persons with disabilities and does not have a physical disability, such as mental retardation or, as it is called, retarded in mental development, because they do not exactly have a statutory document from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. But they have a court order. But they say, no, no, it's by law, it's just a certificate of the institution for pension and disability insurance and a court decision doesn't apply. Why not correct such cases when a marginal group is not entitled or injured. All you want to know is who's going to be the director and how he's going to sound, nothing else. I'm really wondering where we're going and where we're going when we call a state attorney who has a history of explicitly profiled politics, and on the same day we call an investigative committee that's going to get involved in this same prosecution and "spun" everything back when we have a new chief of police named, the former was discharged by law, which is in the Constitutional Court when all the average is replaced. You know, this isn't gonna be a nose-to-mouth exchange, like the Bayuk government did. These may even be pleasant smiling replacements, but they will be thorough. That's a fact. As far as RTV is concerned, I think we are going along the path of Croatia and HDZ in the most leaded times of the first term. At that time, if you remember correctly, Europe noticed something that was happening. I hope that she will also notice with us that she will wake up even more, wake up and stir up the affected public, and in the end, HDZ was no longer in power. Of course, I will not support the bill. I appeal to you to reconsider, though you have a majority to reconsider until the next reading and to find a solution to ensure the future neutrality of the journalistic profession and to have public rather than state television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues! The current state of affairs in the public administration of RTV is not transparent, only a loss that accumulates from year to year is transparent. The management of the institution is extremely difficult because of the inadequate legal basis. The responsibilities of those responsible at different levels are intertwined considerably. The supervision of the business itself is weak, the costs incurred by the institution in carrying out its activities are extremely high and at first glance raise doubts as to whether they are being used rationally. Even in the area of RTV, it is increasingly difficult to take a step with various commercial televisions and it is increasingly difficult to adapt to sharp market competition. At times, however, at the expense of money, he ignores his basic mission, which we have as a public institution. This is because the public is objectively and comprehensively informed about public developments at home and in the world, that it is properly carrying out educational and educational functions, as well as to provide, in addition to the necessary entertainment programme, sufficient cultural artistic research and historical content. All of this must be the principle of public radio and television, which makes it different from commercial media, whose sole objective is to maximize profits, so they are not interested in the public interest. In RTV, however, public interest is prima facie. It is not true that RTV cannot be more economically successful if it is consistently fulfilling its public mission. It is only necessary to organise it differently, to set different levels of decision-making and related responsibilities and, of course, to implement a more appropriate human resources policy on this basis. The proposed government law was made in the direction of what I was saying. It is not said that everything in the marriage proposal is also an optimal solution. Surely, however, this law represents a major step forward towards improving the current situation. Surely, by the final stage of this law’s adoption, there will be a number of changes in its provisions or something else will be added. All of this will depend, of course, on today's debate, on both our Members and other interested public. There will probably be some new developments in this law in the coming years, but it is important that we start the procedure as soon as possible. Any delay is harmful. But all those who spoke so vehemently today about the bad intentions of the government, if you submit this RTV to itself by becoming a dependent institution, I would only point out that it is wrong to accuse someone in such a way and continue to attribute bad intentions to them, especially because it is not possible to test it. It will be possible to try this only later when the effects of the new law have already been demonstrated, and there is no way forward. However, it may be possible to test the law so far and the conduct of the former government in regulating this area. This can be tried. These experiences actually tell us that, honourable Members of the LDS and SD, it is you who, or your government representatives, have acted as you now tell us that we intend to do. That's a big difference, ladies and gentlemen! You are your bad intentions, which have already been discussed, we certainly have not, because we did not have this option in the opposition. However, I can assure you that we do not actually have such intentions because this is not our style. We're simply not able to think that way, so please don't judge us by ourselves. Please, again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm handing the meeting over to Mr Vice-President Pechet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u129	Good day to you all. Thank you, Mr. Clavori, for your leadership so far. I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Ljubo Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. In the introduction among the reasons for the adoption of the law, in the second paragraph, the last sentence is "especially problematic for the management and management of RTV Slovenia". Here I would remind colleagues and colleagues, in terms of the report to the monitoring committee of the Radio Television Institute of Slovenia, which was discussed in March this year, in which the Director-General of RTV Slovenia said that the 2004 programming year was successful for RTV Slovenia, that a number of required programming and television projects were implemented, a strategy was adopted and that everything is focused on business excellence. If I may, then only briefly, in view of the time limit, say that the members and members have expressed their satisfaction that the decisions taken by the committee in the operation of the institution are largely taken into account and that the critical financial situation of the institution is slowly rectified. If I may recall the conclusions adopted by the Committee, point 3 of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture to examine the comments and conclusions contained in the report of the Supervisory Committee of RTV Slovenia, in particular to prepare an integrated analysis together with any amendments or improvements to the legal solutions which, according to the Supervisory Committee of RTV Slovenia, are lacking. Here was an opportunity to talk about all the tragic situation on Radiotelevision Slovenia, as we hear today. Of course, a few days later, the first draft of the law came to the public, and after a week, a somewhat adjusted form of the law. When we talk about style here, it would be very good to say that it is possible to evaluate the style of action. Given that there was no general debate, there was a broad general debate in the public, that only when the draft came into existence was a very short time to which the professional civil society had responded, and to which there were many comments when we were looking at why and when we were talking about style, we could come to a conclusion very quickly when we found that, of course, this law was also talking about style. Not only does the government want to control public television, but it has already regulated this control by amending the Law on Public Servants so that we can read in the media, how an octopus develops with an impact in the economic field, where we can see very rapid interventions in the supervisory boards and administrations, so that we can see how it wants to control culture when it is expressed interest to discuss historians on the topic of the 60th anniversary of the first post-war Slovenian government. Of course, it was very quickly delegated who should participate at such a round table and, of course, on such a basis, this round table did not happen. That's how the style here is very recognizable. In view of the professional solutions proposed in the draft or draft law itself, I would limit myself to the introduction again, in the second paragraph, where it reads: "The regulation of the status of public broadcasting has not been fully comparable to regulation in other Member States of the European Union for a long time." When I read about this fourth chapter, how one arrangement is shown elsewhere, it is very difficult to see from this view what is the order and what we are somehow adapting to the arrangements within the already highly regulated countries. The second thing I would like to point out is very easy to play and non-professional treatment, for example, in the way of accounting for RTV contributions. The first draft has one logic, the next version of the second logic, based on the reason that it appears in public, that of course we have temporarily withdrawn this solution, which will not be long and will return to law very soon. Why such a speed if it could be debated over a period of time? The next issue, which is very important, is the very great ease in removing regional radio and television centres from the law and re-entering very quickly back into the law, again with an argument, 'because we counted or thought this would be settled in the statute. There was a misunderstanding." However, when we read other analyses on human resources solutions, we see that they are assessed as surpluses and it would be very ready for such regional centres to disappear from the bill. From all of this, I would like to conclude that, given the great dissatisfaction of all the parties involved in the public communication, I feel that our journalism is working well. If you'll excuse me, I'd be done with my thoughts. Technology allows me to watch color TV. Of course, I wouldn't want politics from this color TV to make black and white. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u131	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Kristian Janz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The law on RTV has already reached a high level of public attention with today's treatment in the National Assembly. Which is also right and it is also right that this multi-annual, rather irregular situation may finally be settled with a law that would also be more European comparable. The proposed government law is, in my opinion, a good basis for parliamentary debate and possible improvement. This is also the subject of this debate in the National Assembly, which will reach a greater consensus among journalists working in this institution than between the public or between citizens and citizens. I believe that this debate, this first debate, will help and that the Minister is listening to this with his fellow worker and that, after all, he is listening to some of the concerns from this good debate, which leads to a good law, which would also be acceptable to all political options or as acceptable as possible. That would be a good thing, a good trip to that story. However, I am disturbed by two things that may be in this marriage, whether they are judges or not, but are very important. First of all, I did not see in the law what has already been stated several times, the comments made in the past period, namely that the law, however, once recorded a modest 3% for the co-financing of the RTV programme with a status of special importance from the RTV contribution. This is also the only and real stable source for the existence of programmes of particular importance, which has already been voted in the National Assembly and enshrined in the Media Act in Article 82. This is at least 3% of the RTV contribution. I believe that after five years of proof and persuasion, the time has finally come for this to be recorded in the new RTV Slovenia Act, that it is in the procedure, and this debate today just confirms it. If it is the will, I believe it is, then there is always an appropriate solution and 3% of the contribution is intended to co-finance the creation and preparation of local and regional content, which is very important for Slovenia, for regions and not least for local communities. In accordance with the provisions of the Media Law and on the basis of these criteria set out in the Government Regulation [[?!]] . Let me briefly explain some of the points in this explanation. Local, regional and student radio and television programmes with a status of special importance are important additions to the programming content of the public service carried out by RTV Slovenia. They are particularly important for the realization of citizens' rights to information and to freedom of expression, in particular in the content relating to the life, events and problems of the population in the local and regional environment, thereby making an important contribution to the implementation of Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. They create conditions for more coherent regional development, support for the operation and realization of the specific interests of people in a specific area and include programme content related to the work and life of national, ethical and religious communities living in certain environments. They are particularly concerned about the preservation of tradition, human tradition and doctrines. In these environments, the daily contact of Slovenian minorities with the native nation is indispensable, and among Slovenes, they are also very well received and listened. In all these local and regional RTV programmes with a status of special importance, this and other content for the local and regional communities represent at least 30% of the programming time. The preparation of these contents is technically difficult and significantly more expensive than the content transmitted by so-called commercial radio and television programmes. It is precisely because of this price competitiveness of the latter in the advertising market that local, regional and student RTV programmes, with a status of special importance only through advertising revenues, cannot maintain a demanding content structure. When the Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, repealed part 82 of the Media Act and thus as a source of co-financing 3% of the RTV contribution, there is no longer a stable public source of co-financing for substantive preparation. Although the Constitutional Court has instructed the legislator to resolve this problem by September 2004, this has not yet happened. In order to avoid the most black scenario of the issuing local, regional and student programmes with a status of special importance, we propose that the legislator provide these programmes with survival and provide minimum support from public sources. In our opinion, this is the most realistic and stable, substantive and transparent source of co-financing of the RTV contribution of 3% of the contribution, which monthly amounts to 65 tolars for the RTV contributor. Our additional arguments are the obedience and ratings of these programs, as well as the conviction of most of our audiences and viewers that they are already paying RTV for their local and regional programmes. Since these programmes are local and regional complementary to public service and contribute significantly to the implementation of Article 39 of the Constitution, they guarantee everyone the right to freedom of expression and exercise the right to information to all citizens, our assessment of the proposed additions to the law on RTV Slovenia is justified and constitutionally permissible. Second, the Honourable Minister, article 17 of the proposed law, the RTV Slovenia Program Council. I think and I am sure that if this government has this regional service, but we are talking about polycentric development, decentralisation, in short, balanced development of Slovenia, also in this segment, which I think is very important - and now is the time - if the will is in the government and in the national assembly to put together and appoint those who tempt spirits also in today's debate of the National Assembly find one compromise. We talk a lot about Slovenia in future development and I would like to make a good gesture: from words to actions, but it would be because we have 12 regions in Slovenia, that there should be one representative from each region in the programming world. This proves that Bela krajina, Posavje, Zasavje and Prekmurje also have the opportunity to participate in the programming world. That would be the good, blue move. Inside the National Assembly, however, should be called people who are the most competent, who have knowledge, who have expertise and who can actively act for national RTV Slovenia, not only for Ljubljana and Central. I believe that this hearing will be something and that we will also have such a television together in the future, which will be Slovenian, national, which will also cover areas of less developed regions, such as Posavje and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much, colleague Janc, for your meaningful comments. I would like to invite my colleague Mitja Ljubeljska, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! Respectable others present! We all rightly expect from the public RTV Slovenia that this is a house where important information in accordance with public interest takes place every day to take into account all the legitimate requirements for disclosure of information that require the well-being of all of us, that journalists are honest not only to viewers and listeners, but, most importantly, to themselves, that their reporting is impartial and timely, and that their task is to find the truth and forward it. The basic foundation of our public television, which is the most important cultural institution, must be public interest, cultural values, honesty, ethics and morality. In order to do so, RTV Slovenia needs changes and therefore we need a new law to enable the institution to meet the challenges of the future, both organisational and creative as well as financial and technological. RTV Slovenia needs a strategic turnaround with particular emphasis on addressing the causes of the current crisis and ensuring conditions for long-term successful and efficient operations. It also needs a reorganisation that will bring global political balance into the house. The highest management positions must have clear responsibilities, their original responsibilities. The Institute is now extremely complex and extensive and specific business system with a complex organisational structure. The organisation and management of this system are inflexible and ineffective. If the loudest and most decisive critics of the government's amendment of the law were to really advocate the independence of the media from authorities and political parties, they could and should have protested with similar acknowledgment and volume years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at just a few of the facts cited in the report of the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia, we see a number of weaknesses and shortcomings, which have already been heard today, but no one is responsible for this. I ask what else should have happened in order for everyone to finally realize that something really needs to be changed. With all due respect for different opinions from mine, the opinions that some individuals have been convincing us lately, as well as some media outlets, it is difficult to get rid of such criticisms, that they are more about protecting their own positions of power than about caring for media autonomy and that they are now selling and defending the autonomy and independence of journalists. The bill is mainly criticised by those who have so far done little or nothing to improve the situation of RTV. Every fabrication of these facts and the truth of the public is possible in the short term, but never in the long term, because the truth is like oil in the water, always floats to the surface, nothing can be hidden in the long term, and as the old proverb says, because all people know everything. I am sure that the new law will certainly help to consolidate the public institution, to act transparently, to become a better institution, to have the independence of programme workers guaranteed and to provide a basis for business success. The highest management positions must therefore have the necessary responsibilities and responsibilities. I say that the bill is a good one, it is likely to be complementary in further steps, that the national has the resources and the resources necessary to enable it to become also a business and programme success. I myself am a great advocate of independence of RTV, so let us give effect to strong journalistic names and co-creators, people who can think with their heads, whose opinions or judgements and knowledge are worthy of all the attention and respect that are autonomous and we believe that the public do not hide the facts and not the truth. Only when we have plural media will we be able to boast that we have real democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u135	Thank you. My word to my colleague Martin Mikolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to introduce you to some of the known facts. Today, it is a very current finding that some in recent years have consistently pointed out the shortcomings, the inadequacy of the current law and the functioning of RTV Slovenia. There has never been a problem-solving system, because no one, not politics, not the profession, not the society of journalists, not civil society, says some of those who are the loudest today. Interesting. Today, the bill is criticised mainly by those who have done nothing to improve the situation of RTV Slovenia. Today we rightly note that the great problem of Slovenian media space is the imbalance in representing all the main mental flows, lifestyles and values of Slovenia and around the world. We can also say this with certainty about the public institution of RTV. To that end, the current legal system of the public office has also greatly helped. More. In addition to the above-mentioned findings, which are mainly expressed in the programming or content part of the RTV operation, the existing legal regime is causing organisational and financial chaos, which has been the government of RTV Slovenia for several years. We know that the Director-General has a significant lack of competence and will have significantly different powers with the implementation of the new law. The crisis of managing and spending public funds is more than obvious. It is also more obvious that non-compliance with the implementation or non-compliance with the implementation of information balance, which is, of course, the basic mission of public RTV. And who's responsible for that? Probably not us politicians who are obliged to point out irregularities, but members of the institution's organs headed by the Director-General. And in this bush, the rabbit is concerned that the existing law allows what is its legal basis and because the legal basis allows it to do so, the situation on RTV is the same as it is. And such a situation on RTV Slovenia is unacceptable to me as New Slovenia's Member. I would only remind you of events in recent weeks at the death of the pope regarding certain contributions and broadcasts, which were literally not to be said dilettarian, compared to how the exception was shown by the charismatic head of the Roman Catholic Church on other public and national televisions. Unfortunately, I felt that I still do not belong to this civilized Europe or to the European Union. Nothing was better when the new pope was named. And it's not just me, but I've been warned by others, and I'm not surprised that there's been so much talk lately about Kociančič's television and that it's our television. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] All satisfied, with sports broadcasts on the second program, of course if I wickedly add if ours win. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u137	Thanks, buddy Mikolch. I invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u138	Good day to all fellow Members and Members, good day to the President. I will be very brief, of course I am not an expert in mass media, in creating news, in informing citizens and citizens, so I will only say a few observations about this law and what we have adopted this week. In fact, it is interesting that in Slovenia such things are happening that some people, some citizens and citizens of Slovenia should be very proud. For the sake of individuals, this National Assembly changes the laws or individual articles in the law. The only thing I regret is that they cannot exercise this pride in such a way that their name is explicitly recorded in the law. After all, I see no reason why it should not be written in the programming world, except for who should not all be a member of the programming board, which was this, this and that, ten years ago, could still be written personally by Janez Kocjančič. So I think that just as we have changed the law on offences in one article because of one person in this country, they are changing the law on RTV because of one person, and the lawmaker has even allowed himself to write in an explanatory statement that the thing that, in my humble opinion, the neutral person who is supposed to be preparing the text of the law does not in any way imply that the current President was twice the President of the former totalitarian political organisation. Well, it's a completely personal judgment, and I don't think a minister should afford one. The second thing I would like to say about this law is the interesting thing that I have heard today, that television has recently reported on TIMSS only by showing two Members or one Member, one Member. But perhaps our journalists on TV are so critical that they are playing for our citizens and citizens, viewers and viewers only those debates that are sufficiently substantive and, above all, intelligent that they are worth playing. Finally, if we are already amending the law, let us change it by not justifying comparisons with other countries in Europe in such a way that we do not say anything about it. When we watch how public television and radio is arranged in France, Germany, Great Britain, we even say to the United Kingdom - I think it's a kind of funny name for a country that has its own name - we see that it is listed only that they have public and private television, that they have public and private radio. Nothing is said about how these public televisions and public radios are managed and managed. Here I think it shows that the fact that this government's weakness is that it does not have enough professional and capable people to make the law that it wants to draw up in its own measure is at least qualitatively prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u139	Thank you for your opinion. Next one has the word of his colleague Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that we are today on the first reading of the bill on Slovenian Radio Television. I remember the teacher in elementary school reminding me of how to read the newspaper when we were studying. And of course, I remembered that at the time, she warned me that we should start reading the newspaper on the front page. And so I began by reading this text of the individual articles of the proposed Radio Television Act. Well, Article 1 of the status of RTV Slovenia writes nicely: "Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance. He carries out the public service in the field of radio and television activities laid down by this law with a view to ensuring the democratic, social and cultural needs of citizens and citizens." I am convinced that only this provision in Article 1 must be taken care of by the very Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was aware of its duties and responsibilities to citizens and citizens, and that it tried to prepare a proposal of this law as soon as possible, but professionally. Those who are talking today about the fact that the proposal for a law does not have enough time for wider treatment in the Slovenian space, as well as through other institutions abroad, I am convinced that if we start the first hearing today, we have plenty of time and opportunities to give all those experts and institutions who want to contribute their professional work to do so. The time, as I've been asking myself, is enough. And I am sure that in these debates we will find enough wisdom and knowledge that this law will be as Slovenians and Slovenians deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u141	Thank you. Thank you also for your instructive minute to understand the written word. The next one has or is invited to the word of colleague Stana Pajk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. I welcome everyone in this room. I am pleased that this bill has even been considered. In my opinion, such a law as it is written is good. The changes are urgent, they are necessary for a number of reasons that I will try to list briefly. The old law does not allow for transparent and cost-effective business. That was a lot of talk. The Supervisory Committee itself said and said negative in several areas. That's the first thing I've ever seen. Second, very important. The existing world of RTV Slovenia is politically defined. If it is not fully politically defined, its leadership is defined, although opposition colleagues defend themselves that it is not, but they should tell those in kindergarten, and they would understand because today children are quite advanced and are bright. We are trying to neutralize the political definition by means of a new law. Nothing else. That's all. Not one side on the other side, but just neutralize the political definition. I agree that the work of journalists must be done independently. That is why I also agree with this law because it does. Such a law is certainly Europeanly comparable, I hope to say. The opposition's reactions are, of course, negative, and we can ask ourselves why they are negative. Because the opposition takes on privileges because they take on another privilege that it created during its reign. I would also like to point out the double criteria the opposition has and is always telling us when we are recruiting. Our personnel are political, theirs have always been apolitical. Of course, the apoliticals came into the house, and it was political. We've got a bunch of cases like this. I am also pleased that the law provides for a third programme. I believe our viewers are smart enough to turn the TV off or off if the debate is on a low level. I also believe that those who wish to see the transfer of the meeting of the national assembly, that they have this right and that they will be able to explain for themselves what the debate is like in this national assembly and to assess for themselves. For them to evaluate themselves, it is also best to watch for themselves and to evaluate for themselves what is going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u143	Thanks, buddy Pike. Allow me to warn you or express my wish that, for the second time in your performances, you are more accurate or more explicit, and when you point out that the opposition is doing so and so, you take into account that, at a given time, only part of the opposition is implementing, according to your assessment, double criteria. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Drag Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u144	Dear fellow Members, Members, distinguished Mr Minister and Mr President! Today's debate shows that the law on radio television is very important. Television has made a big difference in our lives, and it has changed our lives in some way. She has brought us many beautiful things, but we must also be aware of the weaknesses she carries with her. And what are these negative things that TV brings us? The biggest weakness I see is that she took our dinners away from us so she took our parts of the night. The biggest weakness I see is in that, she stuck us to the chairs, took over our wives, our husbands, our children. She especially took up the time she could devote to her family, friends, and neighbors. In our relationship, there is less and less talk at the expense of television. I think that in children TV is also the cause of increasing violence among adolescents. Of course, the truth is different. It is not the TV’s fault for everything before, and it is up to us to allow ourselves to be enslaved. But it is true that we are responsible for the influence of television on our children. We're lucky the TV receiver also has a button to turn it off. So if we are in power, we can only have the positive things that TV brings us, which is not just an informational role that we are talking about today, and we are anxious to leave all the other things that are as important as cultural, educational, educational and not last-minute entertainment. National television must also take care of national values, Slovenian language and cultural heritage. National television must be at the service of all Slovenes and Slovenes, both at home and in the place. No one has the right to submit. What does that mean? We felt good in the previous regime. If I mention only one example of unbiased reporting, which was quite often present, especially by non-reporting. When we young Christians attended the meetings of young people in Stica years ago, thousands of young people, our RTV did not find a second to report on it. We have a new law in front of us, trying to make RTV more public. This law is banishing politics from RTV. If we just look at the organizational changes. We'll have a CEO, a programming board, a supervisory board. And if we read in the law who can be a member of the programming board or who cannot be a member, it is absolutely clear that the policy of RTV is withdrawing. None of the members of the political parties, Members and Members' bodies, ministers, secretaries of state and thus cannot be appointed to the Programme Council for a further period of ten years after the end of the term of office. The members of this Programme Council will be able to propose to all, indeed, the public concerned, not just the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u145	Thank you, Comrade Root. My word is Rudolph Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We need to ask ourselves why we are practically all united, including the profession and so-called profession, so that the situation in this institution is what they call for after the changes. And when I read the material, I found in article 24 of the RTV Act, regarding the Supervisory Board, that it oversees the operation of RTV Slovenia and the following article says that the operation of RTV Slovenia is public. Then I immediately asked myself how it could be that the report of the supervisory board of this institution for 2003 was marked by a confidential and state secret, if the operation of the public institution was public. That is to say, there are only two answers that someone wants to hide something or that it is a truly state secret. But a real state secret can't be if the business is public and it's a public institution. And that something is really wrong, we can also find out from the fact that, at the meeting of the home committee, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture said that she could not comment on the report under consideration, since the supervisory committee of this institution did not forward it to them despite additional calls from the Ministry. Let anyone understand if they can. It is said that a new law is clearly needed to change such a way of doing things. And how is that possible? I would say it is possible, however, because this report, they found on the Committee, found that it contains findings which differ significantly from the findings of the 2004 annual report of the Institute, because there was something mixed there, a little one year little the second year. This is said to prove again that a new marriage is really necessary. And the Supervisory Committee itself has found what is essentially also taken from the RTV development strategy prepared last year at this institution, which says about this institution that the public service, which is in constant crisis, is extremely vulnerable. The unequivocal consensus on the necessity for its existence and development will break the period of crisis in which RTV Slovenia deals with itself. That is to say, they have found in this same strategy about their work, about their institution that they are dealing with themselves and that something clearly needs to be done. That's what they say. A new law is needed. And this Supervisory Committee also notes why something needs to be done because in this institution there is a perceived lack of interest in the preparation of strategic documents and the vision that it is overly indebted, that projects such as Eutelsat are missing, that inadequate internal control and also poor financial control is poor organisational climate and also culture, that inefficient advertising is, that market failure is and still remains. And that's all in these documents of the authorities of the same institution. That's what you say. Something really needs to be done. And now, if you'll allow me to read something else from this strategic paper, it is stated on page 13 that "one of the problems that will require a definitive answer to the public debate, the manner in which the Director-General is appointed, his powers, and the relationship with programme directors and responsible editors, as well as his appointments." In a system where everyone is responsible for everything, there is no real responsibility. This is what this law solves, and this is what people themselves find out about the perspective, about the RTV strategy by 2010. That's right. And on the following page, it reads: "It is necessary to examine all options for the transformation of the institution into a state-owned public undertaking which will allow both public service in the public interest and capital connection". That is to say, the authorities that have been preparing and the services they have been preparing have made this observation, so that I do not understand exactly what is happening on public television and the threats to state television and so on. I only leaned on what was written, so to speak, the truth is probably a little different. That's what it says, a new law is needed, we have a new law before us that saves these things, and I don't see the problem of not supporting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u147	Thank you, Comrade Petan. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague, Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. And I'd start by really giving us to keep public radio and television. The practice shows this in particular in the mandate that, as long as public television and radio are available, both coalition parties and opposition parties have the opportunity to perform. And I can say that in the previous term, the opposition has appeared several times on television and radio than the coalition. The change that shows at this point is the narrow political interest of the right, but the right is currently in power and shows a narrow political interest and if they become national radio and television, it is a matter of exercising a narrow political interest. And by definition, the state is a bad host, but if it interferes with a narrow political interest, it is disastrous or unilateral. That's why I'm really calling for us to maintain public broadcasting. In addition, I would like to add that it is also unfair for the National Assembly to include us in the third program with advertising. This is a humiliation for the National Assembly, and even at this point, I explicitly oppose such a solution. And I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. I have no objection to this or public broadcasting allows for the inclusion of religious communities in the program as well. State television can't do that either. Article 7 of the Constitution speaks very clearly of the fact that the State and the religious communities are separate. So, respectable right, if you want to preserve the dictions you have in law, so that religious communities can advertise free of charge in this, i.e. through public, state media, then this is not possible because it will have this status state; it is not possible, it is contrary to the constitution. I do not agree with the fact that the President of the Republic appoints two representatives of the religious community to the Programme Council. On what grounds? Is it the President of the Vatican or is it Slovenia? I don't know. I'm not getting along. I'm fine with it if it's public television and radio, but if it's state-owned, and I'm not good at it. So that this law does not truly bring concrete solutions, especially not correct but very narrow political interests, to the right and, of course, I will reject any solutions that are thus recorded in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u149	Comrade Weber, thank you for your informative presentation or your position. The next one has the word of his colleague Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The fact is, no law will fit everyone. With every marriage, someone is unhappy. This is the fate of all laws in all countries and continents. In this House, laws have been adopted in the past period, which have been amended by Members before they entered into force. And that is also what the Ombudsman speaks of in his reports. Laws are living matter that changes and complements as society as we change people, and of course as the institution itself changes RTV Slovenia. The draft law on RTV Slovenia, which we have on the table, is certainly acceptable for consideration, at least because it is definitely better than the existing one. Indeed, this bill was adopted in a rather theatrical manner in the public eye and introduced an unusual dramaturgy in Slovenia, which reminds us of an emergency, which is not surprising. Journalism is an integral part of political development and conflict and vice versa. Political conflict is also an integral part of journalism. When quickly glued to general labels and charges is faced with arguments, admit it, it can be very difficult. Of course, at the outset, the question arises why the former ruling elite, today’s opposition, did not change this law, even though it itself acknowledges that this law was relatively bad. And for the changes she has had more than a decade of time and quite a favourable majority in this House. The answer is simple. That's the law that suited her. Let's stop fooling around. Public broadcasting is subject to political pressure everywhere, and commercial television is subject to economic pressure. More. Public television is also due to the fact that part of money is earned on the market, that part of money is obtained through economic advertising, and therefore is subject to economic pressure. In addition to the subscription, which some call a communication tax, advertising revenue is the most important source of national television. Otherwise, political and economic propaganda is not as sharp a limit as it seems in everyday life, especially in Slovenia. There were cases when the great Slovenian advertisers wanted to break the contract with national television because it did not report according to their standards. There was also political pressure on national television to simply silence the facts surrounding the scandalous and mispriced purchase of Falcone. But the journalists then showed a rebellious attitude, showing what the autonomy of the journalistic profession is on national television. You'll remember, that's when the censor fell, the editor was replaced. In general, we can say that the public service is public service, financed by the public and also controlled by the public. It is now considered that out of the 25 members of the RTV Council, 15 are from predetermined civil society organisations. These have been cemented, privileged in the world of RTV for a good decade. It's kind of an exclusive club. Time and life, however, bring new civil associations, new civil organisations, which in the existing law did not have the opportunity to move into the world of RTV. The new law does not prescribe which groups of civil interests may become members of the Programme Council. 16 of the 29 members of the programme board will be from the sphere of so-called civil society, and open civil society, including viewers, viewers, audiences, audiences. Civil society cannot and must not occupy any political space. Only part of the social interests can be held. It cannot be some kind of para-state institution or para-strategic tool, as the so-called civil society in today's existing RTV Slovenia world, and it has been functioning for more than a decade. Unlike the existing law, the proposal for a new law in Article 17 excludes the possibility of a high-level policy coming back to the top of national television. And by my humble judgment, that's a good thing. However, the National Assembly must have so much confidence in the Slovenian public that it can also vote on the members of the RTV Programme Council, if the rest somehow gives it the authority to decide on even more important matters for Slovenia and Slovenia. In all these strong debates, in some ways we forget the quality of the national television programme. However, the quality of the programme cannot be prescribed by law. However, it may be possible to lay down conditions by law and other regulations that allow for the quality of journalistic work. Admit it, quality surpluses on national television are not exactly in abundance. And we forget about today's important issue of journalism in Slovenia, not just journalism on Slovenian television, but this is a question of credibility. It's credibility or it's not. And even credibility cannot be determined by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u151	Thanks, buddy Friday. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u152	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister-designate. I will, given that almost everything has been said, process the RTV law with a slightly different model angle. I asked myself a question about what we want from RTV, and I also tried to find three answers. One of these is efficient business. Effective business can only be achieved under the conditions that the Director will have responsibilities and responsibilities, as set out in the current law, and not in any way in the way that it was in the previous law. The second answer is business transparency. It was also often heard from the Director of the Institute, repeatedly that it had no impact on a number of decisions. Many decisions in the use of resources, in the appointment of people, in the recruitment process. As a result, we have almost half of the people with inadequate vocational education in the field of human resources. Then the third thing that matters to me is the honesty of business. The honesty of business, especially for this reason - we know that the main burden of RTV is borne by subscribers or payers, which is why it is particularly important that business is transparent and fair. However, a few decisions on RTV were such if we think about the decision not to pay VAT, about Eutelsat, and we could still win, which is confusing the operation of the institution. The next question that I think is very important and I think about which is the most debate is the public interest; what is the public interest. It is important, as the programming world is called, to date the world of the institution. You all object mainly from the opposition to appoint the 21 members of the programme board of the institution as a new national assembly. This is true by choice, by special procedure and by great legal limits, which will, in my opinion, be very remote from the policy of this institution in the programming world. I think there's going to be an expression of expertise. And I think that, in view of the appointment so far, when the 20 institutions or societies that have been able to contribute to the world of the institution have been identified in the future, they will be significantly better. This, last but not least, shows the two-time election of the President of the Council of the Institute, we know who he is, Mr Kocjančič, who, in my opinion, has also been in all this period, I will say, in one way, the Director without the authority to sign. The next thing I would like to mention is: in my programming sense, too, there were quite a few comments and that television has not always played its part. Finally, it may also be said that TV and political February have often promised that Slovenians will be able to see Slovenian television in their place, in the Channel Valley and in Venice, but unfortunately this has not happened until today, and they do not have much chance now. Finally, I would like to say something that I have heard from the debate. Mrs Potrata said that the battle, as long as this law is adopted, is lost for democracy. I think the battle has now begun and will be won if it does. Mr. Rob says there is no public support. I wouldn't hope to say it like that. I think the public will show how much support there will be with ratings or possibly with a referendum if necessary. Then, Mr Gaber argued, let's say that politics has claimed that it is withdrawing from the economy and that this is not being done through the exchange of supervisory committees. I don't think this has anything to do with changing supervisory boards to get out of the economy, it's a process that's a little bit further, we can't compare it with that. I'll support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u153	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Marija Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u154	Honourable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia for the following reasons. In my opening remarks, of course, it seems important to me to emphasise that Slovenia is the only country in the European Union and, after all, also in a world in which the second term of office is the head of the Council of National Television of the former totalitarian political organisation. Of course, it is clear to all of us who I am talking about, of course, about Mr Kocijancič, whom Slovenia and Slovenians must know by his political activities. So, now talk and try to convince the public that Slovenian Radio Television in Slovenia, organised at [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u155	Colleagues and colleagues, please allow the speaker to speak his thoughts to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u156	So, now to speak and try to convince the public that the Slovenian radio broadcasting in the current organisation is not politically guided, is at least, I can say, the swindling and jesting from the Slovenes and Slovenes, and this is also among the fundamental reasons why it is necessary to amend the law on RTV. The fall in the ratings of RTV Slovenia programmes is eloquent as well as the losses of the public institution during the same period. That this situation is also aware of by a number of employees in the institution, especially journalists, there have been numerous protests about the report of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board in recent years. This alone indicates that there is a need for change, as it is obvious that in the area of freedom of information and public expression Slovenia is not European comparable, especially when it comes to public broadcasting. The implementation of the proposed law will today provide the basis for substantially more orderly business and organised work in a public institution in a way that will be comparable to that of Europe. This bill establishes an effectively organised system which is based on journalistic autonomy and professionalism and has all those powers that are necessary for a more successful and quality functioning of the public service. The law also provides a legal basis for the dissemination of a new national programme aimed at providing quality, continuous and informed information to the public about the functioning of the Slovenian Parliament as the central institution of multilateral parliamentary democracy in the exercise of their constitutional powers. The law is based on the principle that the aim of public service is exactly what the concept itself says, to perform public service in the best possible way for the benefit of the user. All those who say that marriage will seriously affect the autonomy of the work of journalists are, of course, not true. However, it is clear that the political leadership of RTV after the adoption of this law will no longer be, and this is the basic reason why the United List and the LDS so strongly oppose this amendment. Slovenians and Slovenians certainly know very well what it means to have a political impact on RTV, as they can easily see the difference in reporting on the government's work and the opposition in the previous and current mandate. And one more thing to do. Since Mr Anderlič, who is not currently in the Chamber, said here in the bench that Mr Jerovšek had lied about his behaviour in Odessa, I hope that television will show this video so that Slovenia and Slovenia remembers and shows how Mr Anderlič is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u157	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Han. [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Mr. Runch, if you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable National Assembly! Allow me to begin by expressing my regret. I am sorry that the government, with such proposals of law to us, respected colleagues and colleagues, wastes valuable time, the professional public shows donkeys and mocks the inhabitants and inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the proposed law on RTV is clear: obviously there is a group of individuals in the country who love Silvio Berlusconi and want to become media moguls. I come out of the economy alone, and I know how hard it is to create something with my head and my hands. Of course, there are shorter paths and shortcuts in life. One of these came from the government, offering us a law that will make national television public. The government will thus acquire or nationalise a media through which it will be able to communicate selectively to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed law is controversial with countless aspects. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to list everything, but I will point out how the proposed law harms the Slovenian economy. The government likes to compare us with Europe, but unfortunately it puts sand in our eyes and puts us back in the Balkans. Restricting TV sales, which according to the Slovenian Advertising Association is legitimate and to the addressees of fair advertising techniques, is only observed in Croatia and Macedonia. It is interesting, however, that in the Balkans they decided to restrict precisely to the impact of successful Slovenian companies and the Slovenian economy. And I'm also surprised that our government did the same thing. Because I respect and appreciate the will of the people of 3 October who have decided in the elections that you have gained power in their own hands, I will not accept such laws and will not take responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u159	Thank you. My colleague, Boyan Rugelj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Have a nice hello to everyone! I'll be brief. In the past, when you were in power here today in the opposition, and I do not see much of you, we have called on you in the Slovenian Democratic Party not many times that the meetings of the national assembly should be broadcast on television, in particular so that our citizens can see for themselves who and whose interests are represented in this national assembly. Unfortunately, this did not happen, for we would have lost power much earlier. This is still somehow understandable, but it is not understandable why you do not want TV Slovenia to broadcast the meetings of our National Assembly today. The only explanation is that you do not want our citizens to be properly informed about everything that is going on here. I hope that this injustice will also be rectified by the new law, especially for our citizens, who have every right to be informed firsthand about the current developments, because they pay enough large bills every month. If they don't do anything else, at least they'll find out why. I am pleased to say, however, that on TV Slovenia there are also bright points which should be a model, but unfortunately the countries are too few or are taking their superiors' light. Of course, I will support the law, which will bring more light and more points with greater resolution, as it will only make our television our national mirror more widely and in all colors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u161	Thank you. Comrade Shirca, I'd love to give you my word, but your colleagues have exceeded your time, so I can't give you my word. And to my word, I'd like to invite Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. You're giving up. Next on the list is colleague Anton Kokalj. He's not here. My friend Joza Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that in this period since the existence of the law on RTV, several public warnings have been opened that the law is wrong and thus in the professional, civil and other spheres. Last but not least, he has pointed out some of the shortcomings also to the Supervisory Committee in several years of order, but this has been pointed out by the professions and the supervisory committee currently under the leadership of Mr Damjanič, the director of Ninamedija, no one has responded. Not in previous mandates, for example, in 1996 - 2000, when colleagues Školč and Širc were one Minister of Culture, another Secretary of State, and were essentially the most responsible persons at the Ministry, where RTV was also the subject of jurisdiction, but despite the findings and criticisms they did not respond to these warnings. The next term, 2000 - 2004, was also one of the key members of the coalition in the National Assembly on Culture and Media. Although we have passed a law on the media, which everyone is criticising and will need to be corrected, especially because the monopolies are not regulated. One of the achievements was, in particular, the mandatory interpretation of Article 84 of the Media Act, which regulates field pornography. In short, nothing special in this area. For 8 years, they were both essentially the most visible cultural people and had in their hands and heads at the same time the strength of arguments and arguments of power, but they did not prepare the law. Nor has the law been drafted in the previous mandate you led in social democracy, you had your minister, but there has been no result in this area. Today, when we have a marriage before us, in these two parties, you are the biggest supporters of the new proposal. I don't know why, but I do. However, I would like to refer to the so-called civil society or, above all, to the Peace Institute, which has emerged as a very active critic of the law. I can tell you that even at the Peace Institute, they don't agree on this law. Even though they have officially protested that they do not agree with the law that the law has consummated to interfere with the problem of politicisation and so on, a member of the Peace Institute is also signed under the text of the law. As an advocate of the law. The next thing that really bothers me is the finding, including the Peace Institute, that this law represents a step towards greater politicisation. In particular for the reason that a transfer will be introduced or the transfer of meetings from the national assembly should be introduced. I don't think this is about more politicisation, but it's about taking away the possibility of interpreting those who obstruct and oppose direct transfer. And if we are already a representative body of this country, then we could also be on the first transmission, not just on the third channel, not just on the third. So if we're going to put something on the institution, maybe we should look at something here. I think that the law solves all the key problems that need to be addressed in this regard, because the key conclusion of the Supervisory Board is also that the powers between the institutions are not regulated. And if the powers between the authorities in the institution are not resolved, then such an institution cannot function well. That's why I think the least of the things that makes sense is that we support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u163	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! They say if you step on your tail, it's gonna blow. I guess that's what happened today. Our public RTV house found the deadline for the day-to-day transmission of today's session, but there was no possibility of that when we discussed the situation in our school. In front of us is a change in the law on RTV, which is those institutions which bring sufficient financial resources to the law, so that their relationship to their access to them is extremely irresponsible. Side by side [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u165	Comrade Versnik, I'm sorry to interrupt, but your time is up, and please, if you'll finish. You've only had 30 seconds to make a deal with your fellow Members first, how much time they'll give you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u166	Then thank you very much for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u167	Thank you. And I would like to take the floor with my colleague Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I've been listening to this debate all day. There was so much to hear, and I must say, it's very interesting. This law is even compared with elementary accidents such as tsunamis. It was said in public that this law had actually collapsed. However, if we look at the proposals that we have received, the Minister, which he could hear today as a proposaler, there was more content in all of this. In our parliamentary group, we have all received comments on all of this from the union or the coordination of press unions, which propose that the Programme Council be complemented by representatives of the regional centre in Koper and Maribor and the comment by the Association for Direct Marketing of Slovenia. This is all it has ever been, of course, with little said content in this law. Otherwise, our colleagues, while clearly prescribed in this law concerning the programme council, then the supervisory board and the director, have invented a whole bunch of readings, saying that the new ruling coalition wants to subordinate itself to education, public services, the judiciary, the police, now the media. It is very interesting that even some former ministers speak about this, such as Mr Gaber, who invented a new one, I would call it, even a flescue, if the current coalition says, because you have done so before. Absolutely not! This has not been heard from Members of the ruling coalition. And if that's what you think, then I have to make it clear that we don't want to do that. The problem is that this law will make masks fall. That's the whole truth of it. If this law could contain that the Programme Council and the Supervisory Council are called the Liberal Democracy and the party of the Social Democrats, then, of course, all these debates and all these perceptions would not exist. Since this cannot be the case, it is likely that the two responsible authorities will be appointed by the National Assembly. Some of you mentioned HDZ, BBC. But look where the government or the government of HDZ and also where the BBC is, there the people can also see the wisdom of their representatives in their parliaments. Not like my colleague Brada Pecan said, if the press were to make a choice and then show what someone said. Let the people see. And as soon as possible, we will be able to see what their representatives or representatives of1 people are saying in this house of democracy. Let me finish. I would like to propose to the Minister that he consider the RTV contribution once again in his capacity as the proposer. I think that in this country, however, we must trust citizens and citizens and that it is in fact pointless that this contribution is linked to the possession of an electric counter. Because people are only so responsible, and above all, they will take this TV for their own, and they will also like to pay it if the professionalism and autonomy of journalists are guaranteed and if they recognize part of themselves on this television programme if they are satisfied with these programs. Unfortunately, I must say, many times in the past it has not been so, and we have heard much about this today. If I mention just one show that received a lot of criticism before the time, now, thank God, there is no more - so-called TV Popper, where they planned to make a fool of one category of Slovenes and Slovenes. Tina Hribar would probably call such a form of work "volvolvoliberalism", as he once said. Otherwise, I am sure that this law will overcome all of this and that this law will also pursue the goals that the ruling coalition wants to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u169	Thank you. We have thus exhausted the list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared responsible for the debate. I invite the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or Dr Vask Simoniti, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! There have been a lot of critical words throughout the day, but I think the main points and criticisms about the programming world have been raised and we have been told how we are going to make public television. I would not repeat what I said in the introductory words at the beginning of the debate. I would just like to mention that over the past eleven years, and especially over the last three or two years, many comments have been made on existing television. There have been words about how this public television becomes state television, how the world is in fact just the extension of a political game and certain political options, and this has also resulted in, if excessively or in fact, in situations of excellence that have led to various derogations from the eminent members of the world. And we have, on the basis of all this behavior, to say so, and in no secret have we drawn up a new proposal for a law that is such that we believe that it goes beyond the existing situation and offers a better solution. With regard to the programme world, which has been widely mentioned, I would say in particular that it will not have people who would resist their authority on some of the ex-political movements and exclusivity, or on any other democratic principles, committed to political parties, since, as has been said many times today, it is very clear how people should be called into this world and who can be named or elected into this world at all. It is self-evident that some political reflections cannot be excluded in humans. However, this political reflection should be logical for people of autonomous status, so to speak, but we are merely monitoring their lives, not a router. Therefore, the authority of the members of the programme board will have to come from their tested, one would say, personality, not from their nominal position. It is therefore a matter of people who must be worthy of public confidence. This, of course, is also the intention of the bill-maker. I therefore believe that the autonomy of the public institution will, of course, be strengthened. I find it rather inappropriate to continue to try to discredit some people who would be willing to participate or be proposed in such a world. I think it would be more right to point your finger at someone you doubt or question and then to argue with. And then it will be shown how deeply we understand democracy, ethics and, of course, expertise. It certainly does not seem appropriate to me that we are already trying to take credibility from someone in the future or to defile such personalities. The world, as has been publicly written and said many times, has been a mockery and farce of civil society. On the proposal of a true civil society, as proposed in the law itself, of course, Parliament will propose and select the most respected people, and this will be our responsibility, which will be clearly exposed to the eyes of the public and given for consideration. If the choice is wrong, we will be clearly responsible and, as a government, we will bear the consequences, even if people in this world are also called 2/3 of the majority, as has been said. Although with a 2/3 majority, there is no need for the condition to be in the law itself or at the same time, because at the end of the constitutional judges we love in a different way, that is to say, with the common majority. So far, there has been no clear responsibility and clear criteria in the design of the RTV world. Under the cover of civil society, real non-democraticism has been largely exercised. It was also said that today public television is likely to exist that only a political part is ensured that Parliament appoints five members, but Parliament also appoints five members of the Supervisory Committee, the Director-General, confirms the statutes, confirms the Broadcasting Council, the Director of the Telecommunications Agency. In short, Parliament has a great role to play here, so that the findings that have been discussed, if Parliament calls something to come from public television, are likely to be attracted to hair. Several questions were also raised as to how this has been regulated in Europe. How's Europe? Everything in a way where public television is itself. The comments that have come from the European press association are biased in my opinion, because, also on the basis of a biased and unilateral opinion, these comments have been formulated, because in Europe we know television, i.e. television, in which they decide in a way that is even more acute than we do, and no one is saying that it is national television, but of course it is public television. I have only prepared for a sample for those institutions which must be fully independent in their decision-making, and of course the rule under which members are appointed by Parliament applies. Just to start with. For the telecommunications agency, just a few cases. For example, in Estonia, Iceland, Ireland, Belgium, for example, holy radio television is named in Parliament, in Poland, for example, I chose some samples, of course others: Poland, Iceland, Ireland, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Austria, Germany. I mean, it's probably not a universal rule, but no one is so strict and critical, and no one is talking in Europe about state television, but it's about public television. For example, there are nine members of the Council in Poland and four are appointed by Parliament, two by the Senate and two by the President of the State. In Iceland, he appoints the Minister of Culture of the Director-General, and the Minister of Culture also appoints the Director of Radio and Television and the Financial Director; in Ireland, he appoints nine members of television, who serve the three programmes, the Government. Then in the Czech Republic it is so; 15 members are appointed by Parliament directly and so on. In the broadcasting council itself, for example, whether the telecommunications agencies are exactly the same as the examples of how Parliament or the government directly or directly appoints the President of the State to these important bodies. Thus, there is no such rule in Europe. Now I have chosen some countries that are new to the European Union and some that have a long democratic tradition, but of course it is so important that Parliament has a great role to play in this appointment. As regards Mrs Possonseva, who asked about the situation of the minority, the constitutional right of the Italian or Hungarian minority is a programme. The Minority Programme is, of course, protected by a number of mechanisms that make sense from the present law. Minority members shall have a special programming committee, each for themselves, in which two-thirds of the members themselves propose. The Programme Committees for Italian and Minority Programmes agree to appoint the responsible editor of the programme for the Italian and Hungarian national minorities, agree on the scope of the programme for the Italian national minority and the Hungarian national minority in Slovenia, agree on the programme plan for both minorities, address all other issues relevant to the programme for the Italian and Hungarian national minorities. In fact, all mechanisms guaranteeing the autonomy of the minority programme as constitutional rights are maintained. It is obvious, therefore, that the fears of possible interventions in the National Community programme are completely exaggerated, since without their consent nothing can be changed. On the other hand, this may also be an answer to those who have commented that they would like to reduce the scope of the programme. Without the consent of minorities there is no such thing and it will not be possible to do so. For Mr Gulič, who warned that the media law provided for the opinion of employees in appointing a responsible editor and that such a provision was not in the law of RTV Slovenia. All provisions of the Media Act, which are not explicitly written in the law submitted, also apply to RTV Slovenia. This is already recorded in Article 1 of the proposal. With regard to the specific procedure for the appointment of responsible broadcasters, the proposal for a law provides for an even greater participation of programme workers. If the proposed candidate does not obtain a positive opinion from most programme workers in the editorial system, they have the right to propose their candidate, and in this case, of course, the Director-General must ask for agreement from the programme board, taking into account the proposal of programme workers. The proposal for a law appointing a responsible editor for RTV provides for additional security guards which are not foreseen by the media law. Mr Moze also spoke about the independence of journalists. From what I have said before, it is also partly clear from the law that the autonomy and independence of journalists do not in any way move and that their position, their position, does not diminish in any way, but that autonomy and independence are fully maintained and additional indents that justify it have also come in Article 5. I therefore think that the discussions that we had with the representatives of the programme workers were also taken into account, so that I do not think there is any fear that the independence and autonomy of journalists would be violated in any way. Mr Kumer, that broadcasters and liaisons under this law are not a separate unit. The draft law leaves the internal organisation of the law to the statute, the decision on the fate of this unit is left to the governing bodies and in Article 15 technical and telecommunications services, which are not part of the public service, are included in market activities. This, of course, allows, which does not mean that it will, but allows for the free development of this internal organisational unit. About the level of contributions. Each person, including the socially weak, must be able to monitor RTV programmes. It is in this area that we propose a change in the law. Payments will be forgiven in addition to persons with special needs and institutions such as hospitals, schools, and social threats. This is provided for in Article 30. Change in the amount of the contribution. We propose that the level of the contribution should be adjusted once a year, which was also another issue on the other hand, so that the institution can now plan the amount of revenue and expenditure. This is provided for in Article 29. With regard to TV sales and restrictions, the Republic of Slovenia has aligned itself with the provisions of international acts which, inter alia, limit TV sales with the adoption of the media law and this summary of the provisions of the directive on television without borders, and also applies to RTV Slovenia. Many countries in the European Union have banned this sale entirely in public television programmes and others have not banned it. Mr. Skull, who said my claim was a lie. I would just like to say this that the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia notes that it is necessary to propose legislative changes that at least at organisational level would allow for simpler, transparent and efficient functioning. I already said that in the introduction. However, according to the findings of the external advisory institutions, the complex organisational structure makes it impossible to work in a prudent and efficient manner. The current financial inflows from excessively paid late interest, tax debt and dividend, from co-ownership in Eutelsat do not solve the problem of public debt. Yesterday, at the Ministry, we decided on the reprogramming of loans intended to repay a debt of two billion dollars. Mr Bevk spoke about the prohibition in Article 17. Of course, it's a little awkward here right now. On the one hand, they tell us political objectives, plans in terms of influence and involvement in public television, and on the other hand all those who are infected with political activity, if I say so, want to have the possibility of cooperation as a politician, or former politicians in a public institution. This is not about lustration, because after all, if it's about lustration, then it's about lustration of all political colors. So it's not just one option. So it's not cheerleading. Mr. Tarchoon. The proposal to finance RTV Slovenia from the state budget is contrary to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, since this is precisely the way in which politics can seriously interfere with the functioning of public media. Therefore, RTV’s contribution as a stable and independent source of funding from the state budget is one of the fundamental guarantees for the independence and public functioning of radio broadcasting in Slovenia. All European documents require, or recommendations are, an independent source of funding, a contribution that I have said is independent of the state budget. Finally, I would say that the only proposal that was concrete was by Mr Kangler and his colleague. I'm glad there's been any initiative at all, if I may say so. Of course, this proposal needs to be considered and seriously discussed. At this point in time, I cannot say that I now express some affection for the marriage that we have formed. I think it's a matter of some discussion. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u171	Thank you, Minister. In view of the fact that the time devoted to the debate has not yet expired, I ask which of the Members and Members wishes to discuss the subject in the next 22 minutes. Please, if those of you who show interest in this matter raise your hand. I'd like to ask you if you could hold on to Mr. Plewell's writing this down for a while. Allow me to read the list of those you have signed up for: colleague Bebler, Happy Friend, Mr Školč, Gulič, Mrs Širca, Gaber, Rupar, Gantar, Jazbec, Tanko, Zamernik, Jerovšek, Marinič, Štebe, Jurij, Pečan, Weber, Janc, Kangler, Petan. Did you check in with Comrade Kovach? Given that we have another 20 minutes for the planned item, 25 debaters and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask if it is possible that only one representative can speak on behalf of the delegation. I am ready to order a five-minute recess, so that each parliamentary group will only speak once and that the government will also be able to respond properly and qualitatively. Otherwise, he comes to the Member of Parliament less than a minute. Is she ready or not? He's ready. Then I assign a minute, two to pick up who will speak on behalf of the Group of Members and to arrange for the Group of Members to come together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u172	Please continue the session. [[...]] Comrade Rupar, please take your seats. Thank you. To my word, I cannot say a Member, but a DeSUS Group. Each member group - colleague Žnidaršič - has two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we have heard a number of comments and discussions at the expense of the law on RTV. We believe that such a discussion, as well as criticism, is a mirror of the product, although the mirror does not always show exactly the kind of picture it really is, because it depends on the quality of the glass in which this reflection is displayed. In any case, we believe that the well-intention of the proposer, as well as of the coalitions, will be demonstrated by the fact that together we will understand that no prepared law is so good that it cannot be finalized or corrected in any way, so that it can be one that satisfies a wider range of interests, views and assessments as to what is best accepted. It was Mr Kangler's debate that led me to believe that it was possible to finalize the law in a better proposal than it had come up with. In this sense, we will also examine the proposal more precisely than possible in this short time period and support those changes that we will consider to be better than those proposed. And if the matter goes this way, we will support the law until it is passed, and otherwise we may not be supporting it in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u174	Thank you, Comrade Znidarsich. I invite the representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Happy Friends. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honor! Today was quite a heated discussion on the first proposal of this law, and I must say again that the former authorities have not assigned the right role to local and regional stations with a special status to which a country with a special law has been designated. We know that these stations must have an information programme, a cultural programme and one of three programmes every day, according to documentary, children's or cultural entertainment. Local and regional stations with special status have the same prohibition of advertising as national television. TV sales are made available to national television, while local and regional stations are not particularly relevant. Unregulated funding is crucial in this law and I think we will have to regulate this issue further. I also find it interesting what the Slovenian People's Party has proposed and I myself support the decentralisation of the management of the programme's professional council, and I hope that we will also give this support in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u176	Thank you for your extraordinary attitude. The presentation of the New Slovenia parliamentary group, colleague Sok, is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Even for these extraordinary inserts that make us smile from time to time. If we look at the survey, 63% of the citizens think the country's impact on RTV is too great. This opinion, of course, refers to a period that is behind us. So it can't apply to some period that's ahead of us. In fact, by this law, we want to ensure that the policy actually withdraws from the RTV institution itself. Just what some of you have seen, that politicians will not be able to be members of the Programme Council for 10 years after they leave their post, must be accepted if we want to follow this objective. As for the debate on the organisation of RTV itself, it has not taken place since yesterday. This debate actually takes place in the Republic of Slovenia for 10 years or more, even when the law has changed once. Of course, he does not claim that the ruling coalition now wants to implement a solution on the neck and nose. It is true that the previous ruling coalition had enough time to fix the RTV law properly, but of course you did not like it, you did not like it. It is easier today to criticize certain solutions, and once again I say that in general, in this whole day-long debate I have not heard significant substantive comments. It's more of a criticism, of course, than a suggestion. The time for proposals is, of course, and the time for what adjustments to this law will also be available. Thank you very much. In Novi Slovenija we will support this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u178	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Aurelia Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u179	Thank you, Vice President. Introductoryly, I would ask you to refrain from assessing my performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u180	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u181	Thank you. We in the Social Democrats do not believe in the well-intention of the proposer and the product we have on the table, because in his last performance, the minister himself told us what the real civil society is and which is a far-reaching civil society. This assessment, of course, implies what tomorrow's composition of the programming board will be. On one occasion, I have already said in my performance that I assume that the largest number of members of the Assembly for the Republic will be and that there will be no other civil organisations in the new magazines. If the minister wants to prove well-intentioned, he will, of course, stand in favour of organising a public presentation of opinions on the occasion, and will also listen very seriously to all proposals, warnings and criticisms by competent qualified public: from journalists to RTV employees, to academic circles, to others. I expect that the mother's working body will organise such a public presentation and that the next product will take into account all that civil society, which has something to do with the institution, will also say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u182	Thank you. The final position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by colleague Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party has very well accepted the Minister's suggestion to support the Programme Council in the sense that this would indeed be national television, i.e. all 12 regions that would be represented in this programme world. This would be really Slovenian television, from White Krajina to Prekmurje. I hope that this support that has been received in this National Assembly and this positive suggestion that other hearings will achieve some result. Unfortunately, I didn't hear anything from the minister, or maybe I didn't listen well enough about your support, about co-financing, creating local and regional programmes. A story that is so old, but also in this law, obviously, it does not have the right place. When will she have it if she has it, and does the government support a local and regional programme that is so important to citizens and citizens of this Republic? I hope we're finally going to crack this nut in one way or another. Now is the opportunity to accept this important law. And the third thing I think is very important. The RTV signal doesn't reach all homes yet. And I think that in today's telecommunications age this should not be a problem, however, that even today certain villages do not have this signal. I hope that you are also thinking about this in your ministry or government and that this infrastructure would allow all Slovenians and Slovenians to reach the signal of RTV or national programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u184	Thank you. My word, Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u185	Mr. Vice President! First of all, the illusion that the government has drawn up an RTV law is that it wants to remedy the shortcomings in the operation of the public institution RTV Slovenia. If that were the case, I would propose a completely different law. The government has proposed this law because it wants to politically subordinate public RTV or wants to complete the process already under way with the law, the process of political disciplining the journalistic work. That is how it is, we can prove it with the Member of Parliament, a colleague who spoke before me. There was a broadcast that, according to some, was supposed to offend or ridicule a certain political option. And this show was canceled. This show is gone. And such shows, which will be cut off, will become more and more. Those shows that you do not like will be declared inappropriate, undesirable, offensive and ridiculous, and will be abolished. All that will please you will be impartially and impartially verified, objectively and truly. Such logic and judgment will not be accepted by viewers who judge you with a remote control. We were talking about civil society. The minister mentioned that the world is a mockery and a farce of civil society. I ask, is the University of Ljubljana a farce of civil society? Is the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts a Farce of Civil Society? Is the Society of Slovenian Film Workers, Musicians, Writers, Association of Dramatic Artists of Civil Society Farce? Mr Minister spoke about true civil society and civil society, which is a cover of various political interests. I warn you, this is a political vocabulary of party ideologists in the 1980s. And it's a farce, not actually a farce, it's a tragedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u186	Thank you. Minister, please. I'm sorry, my mistake. The common position of the SDS Group remains to be followed. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. See, as usual, this time a lot has been said by the current opposition, quite swindling. Let's just look at a few examples. On the one hand, attempts to take over radio television politically are evident, and on the other hand, these same people oppose this shift of current policy from the programming work and from the programming world. The LDS is called lustration, and the Member of the United Nations has even explicitly proposed that this move be withdrawn, thus delaying that moratorium at all. That's what I'd like to say. Decide what you want, but I understand what the problem is. For the current President of the Council, who is the former President of one of the political parties, and therefore the fact that politics currently holds public broadcasts behind its neck in such a way that it is no longer possible, was even present at the last congress of its party, which he once led, among all the other participants, which is in some way logical. But, people of God, don't then pretend that politics has nothing to do with it! That's what you're saying. That's what you're trying to do. The current state of affairs leading to intervention in the programme, to censorship, to everything we talked about at the beginning. In addition, if I add that one of the members of the Liberal Democracy has challenged the possibilities for a more transparent business, which, by the way, also requires acts of the European Union, and when we all know that this is a matter of public resources, the picture will be complete. It is simply that it wants to maintain the status quo with non-transparent business and with the total political domination of one political, very clearly identifiable party, which makes it an excellent example, just the one who is running the world of public television today. We were also talking about the Cardelian concept. But those who know what corporateism is, you will know that this concept fits the present world. The new composition of the world, of course, changes this significantly and this eliminates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u188	Thank you. Dr. Simonita, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that in the course of the debate, which will be held in the coming weeks, we will also take into account any appropriate comments publicly and it would be pointless not to. However, I think that it must remain conceptually bound in this direction, because in my opinion it is well-designed and allows transparent and transparent business, provides insight into the very functioning of this public institution, provides a great responsibility for those who accept these responsibilities, and also allows RTV Slovenia to act in the public interest. If Parliament supports this law, this also means a commitment to move forward in this designed direction. Of course, I support the idea that there will be a public presentation of opinions. I am pleased about the idea of the representatives of the Slovenian People's Party and it is worth considering. The process of journalistic discipline; it was said that this was the case in this law. I don't think that's what this marriage is about. The law itself provides sufficient grounds for journalists to maintain their autonomy and independence, and would not underestimate journalists as much as the honourable Member who expressed these doubts. Many journalists are autonomous, upright, and should remain and be as many as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u190	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The draft law on RTV Slovenia, first examined, is suitable for further consideration. Despite repeated wishes or bans, I will still ask if there is an explanation for the vote. First of all, I'd like to ask you, on behalf of the Group of Members, to raise your hands. There were two arms in the LDS Group. There's still two hands. On behalf of the Group of Members, I invite my colleague, Franz Kangler, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased to adopt the law that we have today on the agenda. That is why we have also decided to help with our signatures, to bring the law to Parliament and to hold a general debate. It is important that we face arguments here today, with the views of all political options that have their views on Slovenian national television. More importantly, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, it is important to note that some of the legal provisions provided for in the above-mentioned bill are good, consistent and in some ways ensure that the political or political aspects of Slovenian national television can be ensured in some way. Surely it is important who and how he can be a member of the programming board and who proposes and who elects candidates. But with all seriousness, we will be involved in further coalition coordination with regard to Article 17. Let me say here today that we will propose that the programming council of Slovenia change from 29 to 27 members, that in the last indent, where it appoints 16 members of the National Assembly, it be changed to 12 members, and that these 12 members from 12 statistical regions from the whole of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, let us show that Slovenian television is a national television and let them get the opportunity and opportunity from all regions to create a future image of Slovenian national television in the programming world. These are the instructions for decentralisation. We also support the proposal of the press union, so that one representative from the Maribor Regional Centre and one representative from the Koper Regional Centre will find his opportunity in the programming world, and in this way we will get 27 members of the Council appointed by both the National Assembly and the President of the State and everyone else. We will therefore support this proposal. However, we also certainly support the general debate and do not object to a general debate in the National Assembly and to all stakeholders attending the National Assembly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with concrete proposals, according to individual articles, with concerns and with those which, in any way, see that they could be disputed with this basic proposal. [[...]] Once again, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u192	Please choose Mrs Shirca on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have already decided on appropriate decisions for the possible better functioning of RTV Slovenia. In this regard, it was already Parliament's decision when it adopted within the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport a strategy on the development of RTV Slovenia 2004-2010, a strategy which the drafters of the current law did not take into account. This strategy is analysed and no one has mentioned it today, detects any problems, analyses the situation and provides guidance on what the law, if any, should be addressed by Parliament. On the 13th page of the strategy table, it says, "Something can't happen. It must not happen that the programming world or any other world is designed differently than it is now." This is said to rule out the arbitral role of Parliament and policy in the selection of members. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Jerovšek, you too have supported or your colleagues have supported this strategy. It expressly emphasises that this is the advantage of our regulation that this method does not include recruitment in the National Assembly. In the Supervisory Board, this strategy has only touched on one issue, namely how appropriate RTV Slovenia’s current supervisors are, given that they are not top financial experts. Of course, we know what this meant, since the current oversight committee, as has been said, could not even make a record of its work. Let us belied that all the facts were not taken into account and that there was an impression that the current world of RTV and leadership were ideologically and politically contaminated and that you proposed precisely this politically manageable leadership. Let me tell you something else. Today's debate has shown that every debate is very dangerous and close, the one that is happening and linking the media and politics. Today RTV Slovenia has moved to the National Assembly. And the editors, the workers, the journalists and all the authors of the contributions can think about it very much, you fear it and also worry about your future. As has already been said, viewers always have a remote in hand for a programme programme that can offer more topics than we have now. Thank you. It was clear from my explanation that we cannot fully support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Members of the Social Democrats will not be supported by the bill. Mr Minister explained that the law is conceptually good and that the government also intends to take into account any minor comments after a preliminary discussion and after presenting the opinions of experts. For us, a conceptual approach is largely unacceptable, so we cannot support it. And what is the conceptual difference? Very important. Previously, the world was indeed composed primarily of certain institutions, but they had the right to designate their own representatives in the world. They were subjects of this world, and everyone within these entities had to make an effort to have political influence, not to say no, to ensure who is the representative of the university, who is the representative of the Academy of Science and Art and so forth of all 25 members of the world. Each of them had one vote, and the President of the Council did not have three votes, or fifteen, to be able to make decisions, to decide by one vote, and on this basis decisions were taken. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you have chosen an easier path. First of all, you didn't say which institutions are involved, but these institutions, as you wrote, can do anything. The mandate-election commission will issue a call saying, "Who wants to report his candidates so that he wants to have his representative in the world"? I automatically cartoon anyone who wants to, because it's also written that way, some have the advantage, but everyone else can. And by the logic we already know, the mandate-election commission will select 16 representatives from this framework, which will in themselves make up the majority of the programming world. They will be determined not from those ten-year politicians, but will be determined from writing, from artistic, from journalism, from any university circles in the right color. And that will then be decided by the majority in the election committee and the majority in the national assembly, and you will have at least one move such a world as you would like, who will later choose the director, will choose both directors: radio and television, will select, simplify, responsible programme editors. And you can tell them when someone has to be on TV, that people will be satisfied, and that 60 people will enjoy it, and 5 people will cry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u196	On behalf of the Group of Members, the last preliminary presentation,
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Look, we're going to vote for this law because it changes the current composition of the world, which is criminal, because it kicks out a large part of actual civil society, it rules it out. On the other hand, it introduces procedures that are very problematic. These direct elections, which we are talking about, took place most often in a very narrow circle, and even more often after the undetermined paths, which were disputed not only for us, but also so was the opinion of the secretary of the Republican Election Commission, with whom we discussed these matters. We will vote in favour of this law because of what one of the so-called experts, the university professor, said at the outset that apparently the current law on RTV was written on the skin of one particular political party. And then he ended up with the phrase "so, of course, you don't have to change the current law." So much for this and about this sort of argument. We will vote in favour of this law because it has a new quality. It also introduces a special channel, within which people will be able to see the real situation in politics at any moment, in the National Assembly. It is unusual, and it has been evident in the past period when we were the opposition, that this channel is always in favor of the opposition. Today, those who are in opposition challenge this channel, it is said, not to whom this channel is for the benefit, but to who has the argument. And we have all the arguments for that. Let me quote again as a textbook of the Faculty of Social Sciences that no one will say it's some kind of, I don't know, right-wing kind of thing, as is often the case with us, a scientist. We find in the FDV textbook where it talks about such a system in the United States, where there are even two such channels and prepare a third, and as a special quality it states: "It is essential that viewers can monitor the event without the comments of political commentators or without any filtering by editors." Who has doubts about the quote, Bogomir Ferrira, university professor, head of political science, book is from the United States, volume 2002, page 444. In fact, at the beginning of the amendment procedure, as Chairman of the Committee, I have already entrusted the Secretary with the task of preparing a decision for the first meeting, with which we will call for a public presentation of the opinions, and of course I invite all of you to take part in this, and I also invite all of you to take part in this invitation. Then this room will be enough to exchange different views and opinions, and I hope it will be constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u198	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u199	Thank you very much. In New Slovenia, as we have already said, we will support the proposal in the first reading. We think that all these fears that have been told here today are completely superfluous. We also note that virtually some of our colleagues have suffered from major amnesia when they see some of the policies set out in advance. It is not to be forgotten that we had three former presidents of a party in positions of responsibility a while ago, so Mr Kučan led the country, Mr Kocijancič RTV, and Mr Ribičič acted on the Constitutional Court. And it still works. And we haven't been able to tell you what you're reading here today. They may be nonpolitical people or they may have become unpolitical. The key to all of this is that this law will make RTV as autonomous as it was. In particular, it will be necessary to ensure the professionality and objectivity of reporting, the rationality of the operation of the RTV house and, of course, the responsibility of all those who will be appointed either to the Programme Council or to the Supervisory Authority of this institution, and the maximum responsibility will be to the Director himself, who will be given both rights and duties by this Act. The question is, what is civil society, in fact, when it comes to RTV. In New Slovenia we are convinced that in this case civil society can actually be every citizen and citizen of this country, i.e. anyone who uses this institution and anyone who pays for it. No one here today, including those outside this house criticising the appointment of the programming world, has said how we should design the programming world, except of course to maintain the status quo, what we already have today. Obviously, even in the light of the reports of the Supervisory Committee, this cannot be maintained and something must be done in this regard. For, as you have noted and we also note that the viewing of national television programmes is not in competition with other RTV programmes at the appropriate level. This needs to be corrected and the law needs to be amended as a matter of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u200	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is high time things were settled on Slovenian radio. In fact, this time of extremes has been twelve years, a little more. And at this point, we've reached the first major shift this law will make. The fact is, there are almost 2,200 employees on RTV, and half of them are definitely too many. They walk through the halls by various directors, who have not directed any shows for 15 years and receive the director’s salary. Although the number of permanent fees declined from over 900 to over 650, these people receive fantastic fees. The issues are linked in such a way that many of these fees are behind or better said, sitting or lying on TV by a gentleman or a lady who collects percentages or everything because it is actually a loud or quiet firm of this radiotele. There are about two and a half billion Slovenian Tolars running into such funds. From that surplus or from those too many people, Slovenian television would save about 5 billion Slovenian tolars and yet everything would go on, as it has done so far or much better, because those who are responsible and who will be responsible for their work will now do otherwise. There will be no more political programming councils, where some will also create fates for some customers who will say, "No, this party will not appear on TV!" Or when some of the presidents of the political parties are going to ask TV leaders, you don't call this man on the show if you don't want me to stay on this show. That's not gonna happen anymore. Surely, though, there is no need to fear that any broadcasts will be cut short. I think that the hot water show will continue, and I also think they will probably repeat the "Man's World" show. So you don't have to be afraid they're going to pull something off. In the end, if both former ruling parties, with such commitment and equal momentum, were to draw up laws in these twelve years as they are now being consumed and caught in search of apparent errors in certain legal proposals, they would certainly live in the most orderly and most legal country in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u202	Thank you. We are moving on to an explanation for the vote of individual Members. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want to explain one misunderstanding so that we don't get things wrong. Those of us who spoke about the third channel are now speaking in my own name as well as others whom I have listened to. Neither do I personally object to the introduction of direct transfers from this national assembly and that, of course, people would not have the opportunity to see what we are saying and what we are doing in this national assembly. My point was in the non-European solution, which is in Article 4, which explicitly sets out what will be on this third channel, so-called parliamentary, and then Article 16 of this same law, when it prohibits TV sales, will transfer it to this third channel. So we've got broadcasts and we've got TV sales. This is the only thing on this third programme on this parliamentary channel. If that is the case, then I suggest that the applicants consider that the National Assembly also finances this channel, whether we Members give up a share of our salary or whether the National Assembly will cancel some of the newsletters in its services or not, and will finance a third parliamentary channel because it is our channel. Why should taxpayers, with the contribution I have already made today, still have to pay for this third channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u204	Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u205	Very simple. Such a law cannot be supported and I will therefore vote against the decision you have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u206	My friend Han. Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Today, I have learned from the Minister of Culture that we are all those who are or are listed in Article 18 of the Law and cannot or must not run for any important function in the authorities of the public institution of RTV Slovenia, that is, all politicians or those close to politics, all from the President of the State to the last Secretary of State, infected with politics, that is, poisoned, perhaps even contagious. I would like to stand up for the profession of politics and a 10-year clearance from political office is, in my opinion, a kind of stupidity and, in fact, a special kind of lustration and a complete apriorous lack of confidence in politics as a Member. It is clear that in our country it has become the most contaminated and controversial profession of the Member or the profession of politics at any level, of any colour, and from the state summit to the last local community. And I'd like to resist that notion. For this reason, because of article 18 in this law, it is not possible to support this law, so I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u208	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Vice President. To me, the malicious evidences that I have heard today that we are already preeminent in the politics of this marriage do not influence any belief that it will continue even if it has not been so far. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I should like to mention at least two cases. Was the appointment of the Attorney General a politically highly defined person and was that not a political act? Another case is the following, respected colleagues, colleagues. Do you know where Dr. Peter Jambrek belongs, which political option? Do you know where Dr. Janko Kos, retired high school teacher, belongs? [[...]] You don't know! Do you know where Dr. Yuri Tasic, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, University of Ljubljana, belongs? Not at all. And I know where they belong. Surely none of these belong, as we say, to the left politically. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u210	Comrade Mogo, allow me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u211	Yes, I will. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u212	The Institute of Voting Explanation is not in the sense of the question to another fellow Member, but it is intended for you to state your position, why you oppose or support a particular proposal. [[...]] Mrs. Pecanova, you have no say in this. Thank you. Mr. Mogue, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u213	Well, as a mathematician, I also know parabola, hyperbole and ellipse. And whoever didn't hear about the hyperbola of speaking is, in my opinion, deprived of certain things. See, all of these, which I have listed, are representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the higher education world and Mr Peter Jambrek is even president. And for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that if there is a parliament where the majority of the ruling coalition has a 21st appointment instrument in hand. It'll be better then. And I think what has been said repeatedly by us is not good for us to adopt such a law. And I'm not going to accept him, given the way he is. And to Mr. Janez Janša, I believe nothing more.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u214	My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Allow me to stress once again: the procedure and necessity of dealing with the law are at least at this point at issue for me. Today, not the MPs of the ruling coalition, nor the government representative, have convinced me why such an urgency and such a need to deal with this law. But now the law in force, as we have heard and I agree with this, needs to be changed, as does the regulation of both the governing and programming structures on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The reasons for this were already stated in the debate today and I would not repeat them. Today's debate, if we look at it, took place to a greater extent and looked like an excuse for the Social Democrats that Mr Kocijancič was their member, as if they were ashamed of him in their own way. However, some good proposals have also been put forward, which I hope will be taken into account by the government in the preparation of the law for second reading. As far as the programming scheme is concerned, I believe it's the way it is, or worse than it almost can't be. You know, there's a joke among people that people in the daily paper read the program first, and then all the other tragedies. Until the second reading, I believe there is still time for the bill to be improved. And in this hope, we will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u216	Thank you. A colleague of Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. So I noticed that the Minister had had problems earlier looking for appropriate comparisons with our regulation in the European Union countries. But I can help him with comparisons with other European countries. For example, Albania, the National Commission and the Council of Public Television are directly proposing to the President of the State. Azerbaijan, the Management Board and the Director-General shall be appointed by the President of the State. Bulgaria, the two main administrative bodies are set up by a political majority in Parliament. Croatia, the Management Board shall directly appoint a Parliament. Moldova, the Council of Observers is directly appointed by Parliament, the President and the Government. Poland, you've already said, there's a press association claiming that Poland's RTV is controlled by government and government parties. It is similar in Turkey and Ukraine. In these last two countries, until recently, many journalists had been detained as political prisoners. So I cannot support such a law because it opposes the fundamentals of standards for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. And please take the time to the next stage of the preparation of this law and at least make these elementary articles so that we will not be ashamed in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u218	Comrade Jerovšek, you have no word. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u219	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll explain my voice. I will vote against it, especially because I have the feeling that the government is trying to achieve, by amending the law, primarily by suppressing critical and independent journalism. That the government wants to get the media by supporting television, which will show the government's moves as the only right and only possible. And in all these words about digitisation and all these new things, I feel like they're going to have digitized black and white television. Or as one of my forerunners said, she'll be autonomous again, just like she was. When was she so autonomous that we wanted those past times? We know when: sometimes what you call totalitarianism. So I'm really afraid we're going to end up looking at a diary that no one will want to watch anymore. Then there'll be bunnies and it'll be a good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u220	I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. I will not support the law because it allows the direct impact of policy on radio and television, and this direct impact is reflected in the fact that politics directly appoints personnel, most of them to the programming world. Since the 29th, 21 of them have been called politics. And politics also controls resources. So, since the 11th on the Supervisory Board, the policy has called them 9. So if you want to politically control the radio and television, you set up the footage and control the finances. That is why, of course, I cannot support this law in any way, and it really means a big, big and once more big step back in the development of democracy in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u222	Comrade Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, I will explain my vote. I will not support this law in this form. I think this law in the information age is a real anachronism. Even if you master public RTV, you will not master the information, that is no longer possible today. Therefore, sooner or later, the marriage will come to your detriment, because RTV will make you unworthy and at the same time will make you unworthy. The question is, why are you in such a hurry? I think the answer to this question is very clear: today this government has such power and influence - not only in Parliament, but also in the public - that Parliament proposes anything and it will be accepted. Not only will this law be passed, but many other laws will be passed that will cause us to have a headache. Otherwise, I am in solidarity with the president of our brotherly opposition party, who complains that he is not appearing enough on television. I think it doesn't appear so little, unfortunately - and with this I am solidarity, of course - unfortunately appears in the margins at the end of the TV diary. I wish he'd show up more than once at the beginning of the TV diary. When you talk about the impact of structures, Kocijancič and others on public RTV, I will list you with the general directors of Radiotelevision Slovenia: Janez Jerovšek - SDS, Žarko Petan - SLS and SDS, Janez Čadež - SLS, Alex Štakul - certainly not LDS. So, LDS was possible -- maybe, I don't know -- as much as the LDS member was the current Defence Minister. However, I think if I went as far as possible to make things worse, then we should correct the proposal for a decision. The decision should read: the law is more than appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u224	Thank you. My word to Ljubo Germich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I am also joining those who will not support this bill. A number of arguments have already been mentioned, and only one would be used in his explanation of vote. So, given the appointment of 16 members to the Programme Council to be appointed by the National Assembly, I think the text in the selection is very superficial in my opinion. Because we start from actually individual viewers and listeners, we continue with universities and universities, societies, with some mention, and we make sure that there is no sports society written in this. In my opinion, however, it doesn't matter what it says next, because the choice will be more or less known already in advance. Of course, since I am avoiding being so dependent on the nomenclature of authorities depending on access to public information, I do not want to do so and therefore will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u226	The last one on my list is a colleague of Paula Rupar. Here you go. Calm down, Mrs. Potrata, you're all coming in, don't worry. Mr. Pavel Rupar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I will certainly support the marriage because today it has been heard from the opposition types of various slogans, among which we today defend RTV. So, I believe and I hope you will lose this battle. I have also heard that at one time one broadcast would have been politically discoloured and shut down, and I also believe the gentleman who said that he was afraid that the TV would be out of the program. I want something, I want black and white television, I really want black and white to be presented, and I look forward to the baby coming when he says, "Daddy, Dad, I watch black and white TV! "And when I say, "Thank God, son, at last only one color - red is missing from this screen." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u228	Mrs. Potter, did you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u229	Thank you, for your word. I'm not going to support this marriage, not because I'm afraid of red color, after all, it's a red cardinal color. The law has a concept that I cannot support in any way, but it has been said that only what appropriate comments will be taken into account. And since the law in this concept from the public service of RTV has made state television, it seems to me that the way of elections and the possibility of real civil society representatives coming to the programming world is also announcing where the dog taco prays. In other words, I am particularly convinced by today's debate on coalition MPs and Members for my failure to support this law. Here we have heard what we can hope for in the future. This is where editorial policy was formed. I know we don't argue about flavors, but there's been so much of this anger about what they could see on TV so far, and what they didn't intend to or didn't want to watch. However, I hope that at least Mr. Minister will remember the famous stories about Rashamon, how three people speak differently about the same event. If you don't mind. The worst of all is that you challenge the right of the President to someone who has been elected president of this country in the most democratic way, that is in a direct way. I thought the coalition had something to do with the constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u230	My word is Bojan Rugl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr President, or the President. Today, when we talk about television, I might remind you of some words that are written down somewhere, that the essence of the eyes is invisible, and that it is necessary to look with the heart. And I hope there are quite a few of you in here, or we are when we look at it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u232	My word, dear Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u233	The law we are considering today will be supported, because I am sure that the changes are necessary. From the debate that took place here today, I have seen the only commendation from the so-called left-wing parties, namely that the law is well regulated with regard to the editing of the archives, the digitisation of this archive. It seems to me that this is very important for our researchers to be able to see what was going on on this television and what was going on with us, especially since I find that our human memory is always shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u234	Thank you. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I, as it is said, object to this law because it is based on truly flawed pre-modern assumptions of understanding democracy and the mechanisms of democracy, where the media still play an important control role. They do not replace the opposition or other mechanisms, but they are some sort of public conscience. From this point of view, I also do not see this debate as a dilemma between the old solutions and the new proposal. We are talking exclusively about a new proposal as a pre-conditional one, and the old one would probably need to be corrected in a number of ways. What's the basic thing that's wrong? It is fundamentally wrong that the government replaces both public and public. That he does not understand the concept of public, but that what is public replaces what is national. It further concludes that, because of the elections it has won, and because of the political power and the majority that allows it to form a government, it is justified to manage all state assets to which it considers it to be, unfortunately, also wrong to do so. This replacement, I'm going to say, really doesn't mean that many of these don't understand the changes that happened in the 1990s, and it actually means a step back. The other thing that's problematic. [[End warning sign]] He doesn't understand that the concept of civil society is autonomous. And that talking about the right civil society being able to choose a Parliament is at the same time deleting this concept of civil society. As soon as Parliament replaces [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u236	Comrade School, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u237	Excuse me. I'll be right there. As soon as Parliament decides instead of civil society bodies, then the function that these applicants have is lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u238	I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Capudra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u239	Thank you. I'll be shorter than my colleague, School. I'll support the marriage. In fact, we all find that the current situation in the RTV area is not regulated. I look forward to it, as colleague Bevk points out, that the world will now be an apolitical one. Well, according to the hour, it's time for the cartoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u240	Colleague Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u241	Actually, I'm glad I've seen some new faces on TV lately that somehow didn't have access to this medium because they didn't belong in the right circle. Otherwise, they're only at nighttime, though. There are also some new contributors. That is why, in my firm opinion, the political impact on the public service of RTV must be reduced and the autonomy of journalists increased. I think and I am sure that the proposed changes to the law indicate this, so I will be happy to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u242	My friend Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u243	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Friday, 18, it's almost 19 o'clock, but still, the injection is no longer good, so I can say two words. I'll support the RTV Act. However, I wish to the Minister with my fellow workers, not such a debate as most debates have been today, when we have convinced each other what has been wrong so far and what has been wrong in this law, but I wish to give him in a further debate, which will allow for today's debate as many concrete comments as possible, as he himself has said, which he will be able to incorporate into the second reading law. I am surprised, however, that some of my fellow Members have been transferred. I remember two days ago when we discussed one other item of the agenda, when it was blasphemous to be a candidate for the president of the country, whether it was a blasphemous member of a party or not, but today we say - and we were talking about the plague and I don't know what it was - but today we were surprised when the minister used the term "infected" or when some of you advocate that we could also be members of current politicians, other similar political options, and you say that this would not be right because the practice so far has been so. In short, I will support and want as many concrete comments as possible in the next debate as possible, not the politicisation of the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u244	Ambassador Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u245	I will vote against the bill, because I want a lot more ratings and some more Victors to the RTV office, because not only do I assume, but I suppose that by enforcing this law no Victors or ratings will be no more - on the contrary - of course, I am obliged to vote against it. Certainly, if today's debates are to come true, RTV will have one viewer more or less.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-22-SDZ4-Izredna-08.ana.u246	Before the act, please check your voting devices by Members and Members. May I have your attention and peace in the hall? I will read again the proposal for a decision. The decision reads: "the RTV Slovenia Order, at first reading, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 72 Members present, 49 votes against, 22 votes against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. In doing so, I ask you to listen, two brief notifications. First of all. The meeting of representatives of the parliamentary groups, I ask the representatives to come forward in room 217, and in ten minutes, the EU Committee on Affairs in the Grand Salon will begin. Thank you. This concludes the 8th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice weekend, good luck!
