ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that we continue the third meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have quite a few hours to work in the morning and afternoon, somehow in the spirit of that international saying that the money of the world is the ruler. Before moving to agenda 5 I would like to inform you that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting: Mr Robert Horvat, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Mr Alojz Posedel and Mr Matjaž Švagan. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2003. The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I invite a representative of the government, Dr. Bručan, to give us an introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u2	Dear Members, the President-in-Office! On behalf of the Government, I will give an explanation in a few sentences concerning the final budget account for 2003. The final budget account for 2003 dealt with the home working body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that this final budget account for 2003 be considered on the basis of a report by the President of the National Working Body and a debate by Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much to the representative of the government for a very short and concise introduction. I would like to invite the President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances as the working body, Mr Mag. Milan Cvikla to present the report of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! It is only the fact that the Government has decided that the Minister of Health will talk about this, not the Minister of Finance or at least the competent State Secretary, that it gives its view or an additional view of what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, at its regular meeting on 16 December in accordance with the procedures adopted by the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, considers this budget. However, I must say that the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, for the supervision of the budget and other public finances, at its 1st regular meeting held on 15.12. and then by continuing on 11 January, 13 January, 18 January and 20 January as the working body, considered the draft final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 in the presence of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also took into account the well-known, new and, if necessary, explained how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly should be read in this regard. The examination of this document took almost 20 hours, because, in addition to the material covering several thousand pages, we also considered the audit report or the audit report of the Court of Auditors on the final account, the consolidated balance of assets of the State and municipalities, the audit report of the Court of Auditors on the operation of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in 2003. Mr Minister of Health has also been involved in this. The Commission found that the 2003 budget was implemented within the envisaged frameworks. These were determined by the budget rebalancing adopted in June 2003 and the Commission found that the measures to balance the budget applied in the spring months were measures provided for in Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, adopted appropriately and provided for the smooth budgetary financing of users by the end of 2003. At the end of the year, the Commission found that the budgetary financial developments in 2003 were favourable and more favourable than expected at the time of the budget rebalancing, even higher than planned revenues, and in particular increased expenditure on interest on domestic debt, transfers of pension and disability insurance institutions and budgetary reserves. Allow me to comment on these key changes. The increased domestic debt compared to foreign debt was in line with the strategic objective, at the time the government's programme of entry into the euro had already been adopted because, in particular, the increased demand for domestic credit and, of course, the active operation of the Treasury had affected the reduction of interest rates in Slovenia. The funds for transfers to the ZPIZ were planned on certain assumptions which were in reality different from expectations and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accordingly used the option and increased the transfer from the state treasury to the Treasury PPIZ and consequently achieved that the debt of the PPIZ was reduced at the end of 2004. Unfortunately, this was not the case in 2004, when the government did not take advantage of this possibility of an increased transfer to the pension fund. As a result, the budget deficit was two billion less than the budget balance and no fiscal stabiliser had to be used. The Commission found that, at the time of the audit of the accounts, the Court of Auditors had given a positive opinion on the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans and that the Ministry had given a positive opinion to the four ministries and an opinion with reservations to the eight ministries, while the negative opinions to the two, to the Ministry of Defence, would likely be addressed by a representative of the Ministry of Defence and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The correctness of the State budget was fully given an opinion with reservation. At the end of the hearing, the Commission unanimously adopted 7 findings, 12 decisions under its competence, 7 decisions or measures pursuant to the last indent of Article 39 and a proposal for a decision under Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, we have not heard the Government's opinion on these individual proposals. I suggest that, after the discussion has been concluded, you adopt the proposals for decisions that we have proposed in accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure. I regret, however, that the College of the National Assembly did not accept the Commission's proposal to invite the Court of Auditors to the hearing, as the Court of Auditors could further highlight the implementation of the budget in 2003. Thank you very much. This concludes the limited time of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much, mag. Squeak. Presentations of the positions of the parliamentary groups are now under way and I invite the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rudi Veršnik, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, I welcome the distinguished representatives of the government, particularly the Members, who are accompanying this item on the agenda of today's meeting. In my contribution to the consideration of the state budget's final account, I will present, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, the problems and positions, in particular, on the following issues. First time. Method of publication of the final account. We believe in the Slovenian Democrats' Group that it is unacceptable that the text of the explanation of the final account is not published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, in the same way as any draft national budget plan has been published. We are therefore protesting against the previous leadership of the National Assembly and the previous government, which, despite the request of the SDS delegation in the previous mandate, did not provide for the publication of the final accounts in the Rapporteurs. Only the first step was achieved. This is the publication of a textual work in computer form, as the way in which the previous years were published was even worse, and the explanation of the final account was only available to Members, members of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Slovenia is in breach of the fundamental principles of fiscal transparency, which all Member States of the International Monetary Fund should respect, by publishing, or otherwise, the publication of the most important financial act in the country, in accordance with the provisions of the Fiscal Transparency Code. It is impossible to read and analyze such extensive material, which was a circus of 1,000 pages, only by reading text on the screen. Those who have nothing to hide will also publish such a document. Another time. Time of submission of the accounts for 2003. The former Government was obliged, in accordance with Article 97 of the Public Finance Act, to submit a final account for 2003 to the National Assembly by 1 October 2004. In fact, it did so 10 days later, on 11 October 2004. However, with the submission of the audit report to the government, the Court of Auditors was also late, since it was only issued on 29 September 2004 and should have been issued at least 30 days earlier. In the SDS Group of Members, we would also like to see different arrangements for the submission and explanation of the state budget accounts to the National Assembly in the future. Firstly, the audit report on the regularity of the accounts and the implementation of the budget is to be submitted to the Court of Auditors at least at the last July meeting following the end of the financial year. Secondly, the revision of the objectives of the budgetary programmes achieved is on the cost-effectiveness of operations and the economic efficiency three months later, in October, this is at a time when new draft budgets or the current budget are being published in the National Assembly. The adoption of the accounts for 2003 at the time of the end of the financial year 2004 is indeed too late to be dealt with without real effects. Third time. Composition of the final accounts of the State budget. The final account of the state budget to be adopted today consists of a three-part statement of revenue and expenditure, namely the A balance sheet - revenue and expenditure, the B - accounts of financial claims and investments, and the C - financing account. An integral part of the final account is not the balance sheet of our central state. Thus today, we do not know what the real and fair state of funds and liabilities were at the end of 2003. While the current Accounting Act provides that the balance sheet is also mandatory for each direct and indirect budgetary user. Contrary to the Accounting Act, the Public Finance Act in article 96 does not provide for a balance sheet as a mandatory component of the State budget’s final account. Why these two basic laws are not harmonised, the Member of Parliament would best explain in the National Assembly, Mr Mag. Milan Cvikl, because it is known that at the time of the preparation and adoption of these two laws he was the Secretary of State for Budget. Today, only the consequences of these two uncoordinated rules are known. The consequences have been 12 to 13 years. This country does not have credible asset balance sheets, the availability of movable and immovable real property is opaque, the management of financial investments is said to be shares, shares and countries as well. The latter was also found in 2002 by the International Monetary Fund. In its 10-year mandate, the Court of Auditors has never before delivered an audit opinion on our country's balance sheet or assets balance. The Court of Auditors reports for the first time in the audit report that we are considering today on the findings of a preliminary audit of certain budgetary user balance sheet items. The Court of Auditors has not delivered a final audit opinion for 2003. In the Group of Members, we believe that the Court of Auditors has thus unduly avoided a negative opinion on the state budget balance. Of course, in the SDS Group, we cannot agree to such a situation in the exercise and valuation of our national assets or agree with the conduct that the previous Government has allowed for twelve years. It is not possible to agree to the practice in our country that direct budgetary users do not have to do inventory, coordinate the book and actual state of the country's assets and liabilities to resources. Although the Accounting Act prescribes all of this, the practical conduct of the State is different. Economic experts and everyone who knows the basics of accounting or accounting are well aware that when income and expenditure accounts are not aligned with the accounts of the state, resources and liabilities to the resources, it has also failed to guarantee the truthfulness and fairness of the statement of revenue and expenditure to which the Court of Auditors has given a positive opinion for the 2003 State budget. According to the SDS Group, the imprudent treatment of state property in our country is due to the irresponsible attitude of past finance ministers and state secretaries responsible for the budget and, of course, of both government representatives to the availability of state assets. However, the accountability of the Court of Auditors, which has not revised the balance sheet of direct budgetary users and does not present an irresponsible attitude and conduct of the executive branch with State assets, has also highlighted as a major problem for the national assembly and the general public. The Court of Auditors did not even follow the warnings of the International Monetary Fund when it pointed out the imprudentness of reporting on financial investments in 2002. The Court of Auditors did not, in the opinion of the SDS Group, provide an independent position vis-à-vis the executive branch. In the SDS Group, on the basis of what we have said, we believe that a positive audit opinion on the financial statements of the revenue and expenditure of the 2003 final budget account does not provide us with a balance sheet or without an audit opinion on the credibility of the assets and liabilities shown and does not provide the necessary assurance that we can accept the accounts of the State budget's final account. To senior government officials, direct budget users or officials of this government, we would like to say by rejecting the adoption of the Final Account of the 2003 State Budget that the deadline has expired for their own, and not only by politicians, irresponsible conduct. Fourth time. Implementation of the general part of the 2003 State budget, according to the budget plan or the budget itself. In the financial year 2003, the National Assembly adopted the budget balance in June 2003. Despite the rebalancing, total annual income at the end of the year was higher by 1.9% and total income was also higher by 1.7% than planned in the rebalancing. However, the budget deficit was shown to be 3% lower than planned in the rebalancing period, and a deficit of 68.5 billion was reached instead of 70.5 billion. At first glance, perhaps a favorable outcome. Actually, no. The lower budget deficit was achieved due to lower investment expenditure, as these were achieved by as much as 11.4 billion tolars or 15% lower than those set in the balance sheet. Investment transfers were also lower by 3.7 billion or 5% than planned. The lower budget deficit was therefore achieved at the expense of reducing expenditure on investments, totalling up to 15 billion. On the other hand, current expenditure in the second half of 2003 was much higher than those in the balance sheet. Current expenditure was up by 22 billion, current transfers by 16.7 billion. In the second half of 2003, the former government together devoted 39.2 billion more to current consumption than it allowed it to adopt a balance in mid-2003. Most notably, according to the rebalancing, the expenditure on interest paid to domestic lenders was increased by 8.5 billion or 17%. In addition, interest-to-foreign expenditure was reduced by only 0.5 billion expenditure on goods and services by 3.4 billion or 2.4%. The government has also created 11.8 billion more reserves at the burden of higher current expenditure than those set out in the balance sheet. With this information, we can rightly ask at least two questions: What is the quality of our budget planning? Was the government even allowed to carry out such major additional transfers after the adoption of the state budget balance in mid-year terms, given the powers of the Public Finance Act? At least this second question, according to the SDS Group, should be answered clearly in the audit report by the Court of Auditors. By the time the rebalancing was adopted, the government had made a 17.7 billion redistribution, with an additional 57.2 billion after the rebalancing. Fifth. Inadequate guarantees on the completeness of the presentation of tax revenue and non-tax receipts. Tax revenue. The Court of Auditors verified the correctness of the statement of tax revenue by determining whether tax revenue was actually paid to the accounts in the budget. On this basis, the Public Revenue Administration confirmed the credibility of their statement in the 2003 accounts. The Court of Auditors does not, however, tell us how many taxes have been left unpaid since the irregular tax records made it impossible to carry out this task. However, our DURS has such poor records that the harmonisation of the taxes charged and paid at the end of 2003 has not yet been possible, according to the Court of Auditors, or was only possible for one tax, value added tax. For all other taxes recorded in DURS's 2600 tax accounts, there was not yet adequate system support and manual coordination of records was not possible, the Court of Auditors recorded. Thus, the Court of Auditors does not report as much as at the end of 2003 the actual current tax debt was combined and per type of tax. It only reports that the quality of the data has been partially improved compared to 2002 and that the number of outstanding, unsuccessful books has decreased, meaning that the number of taxes for which Durs does not even know who pays them should be reduced. Non-tax revenues were shown in the 2003 final account of 86.3 billion and were planned at 92.7 billion. The Court of Auditors was unable to confirm the completeness of the coverage of these tax revenues, as it found that the system of accounting for the 2003 main budget was not adequate and was gradually upgraded by the Ministry of Finance. After 12 years or in 2003, the Ministry of Finance continued to upgrade the information system for the correct monitoring of such non-tax revenues as: participation in the profits of economic and public enterprises, fees, fees, fines, revenue from goods, etc. By the end of 2003, the Ministry of Finance had failed to ensure monitoring of the value of capital investments, the value of their changes and not the revenues from this Title. Capital investments were recorded even as quantitative, which means that our government in the records shows only portions of records and not percentages, for example, in Company A has 100 shares, in Company B 10% share, etc. At the time of disclosure of the irregularities mentioned above, the Court of Auditors considered that there was a risk of the full payment of non-tax revenue in the budget, but nevertheless decided to give a positive opinion at the level of the statement of non-tax revenue, and verified that what was recorded was also actually paid. In the SDS Group, we believe that the statement of positive opinion on the statement of non-tax receipts of the 2003 budget by the Court of Auditors is unjustified and is also one of the reasons why we will not confirm the accounts of the final accounts of the 2003 State budget. Six. Failures to demonstrate budgetary expenditure and deficits according to the domestic methodology. According to the SDS Group, the budget deficit for 2003 is too low from at least two other titles, taking into account our domestic methodology. For the first time, budgetary spending has been shown to be too low for the circus of 30 billion issued and already cashed state guarantees. The Court of Auditors reports that at the end of 2003 the government had 30 billion cashed and uncoordinated guarantees. The debtors for these guarantees have either been bankrupt or the bankruptcy has already been completed, there have been no legal successors, there are no legal documents for the coordination of guarantees, some guarantees have already been declared in the capital shares by the Court of Auditors. For example, such debtors are known to have failed companies: TAM, Automontage, Domžale University, Novoteks, Tkanina. The Court of Auditors calls on the government to transfer these cash guarantees, of course, to the state already paid them, outside the bookkeeping records, into the country's debt. In the SDS Group, we believe that this debt should actually be shown through budgetary spending as a write-off and an increase in the current budget deficit. Secondly, the budget deficit, according to the SDS Group of Members, is too low for 2003 as in previous years for investments in military equipment financed by loans leased under the Basic Development Programmes Act or so-called TRPs. Since 1994, the Ministry of Defence has funded an important part of military equipment with domestic indebtedness, and budget spending will only prove to be at the time of repayment of the loan and it would have been correct at the time of use of the loan. This irregularity of recording budgetary spending was also noted in 2002 by the International Monetary Fund, but the LDS-led government did not decide to correct the error. It can be concluded from the information provided by the Court of Auditors that the budgetary expenditure under this heading was too low for 15.5 billion in 2003. This particularity or rather said irregularity of the statement of budgetary expenditure was also mentioned in its report by the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, and it assessed that this exemption would have to be decided by the current government. According to the SDS Group of Members, the current government will have to make a consciously lower statement of budgetary spending in past years in the 2004 accounts and thus also report to the public how many billions of LDS-led governments have actually shown too low budget spending and improved their performance in recent years. In the SDS Group of Members, we believe that Slovenia cannot afford to disclose to us the error of showing budgetary and total public spending in Brussels, as it did in the case of Greece. It's a week. Differences between the performance of the budget deficit according to domestic and European methodology. The Commission's report on page 3 states, inter alia: The entire movements in 2003 were favourable, the revenue and expenditure were moving in the right direction, no payments were made at the end of the year. In the SDS Group, we note that these statements are misleading, as they could also be understood as if there were no unpaid short-term obligations to suppliers at the end of 2003. If that were the case, then small and medium-sized entrepreneurs or undertakings operating directly or indirectly with the State would not gloat over the financial non-discipline of the State. We note that some ministries have had significant outstanding short-term obligations at the end of the year. However, the Court of Auditors does not report this. This information can be found by the reader of the final accounts of the State budget for 2003 in explanation of certain balance sheet items. For example, at the end of 2003, the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and the Family had 14.3 billion short-term obligations, and the Ministry of Education and Sport had an even greater number, namely 22.2 billion. Other ministries have also shown short-term unpaid obligations, but in relatively small amounts. In these facts, we need to find that the budget deficit figure of 68 billion in the 2003 final budget account tells us very little, according to the Slovenian accounting methodology, if we do not have data on short-term and long-term liabilities to suppliers by the end of 2003. In demonstrating our budgetary expenditure under the European methodology, the deficit of the state budget at the end of the year would be greater, among other things, than any pre-existing short-term liabilities to suppliers, as the European methodology identifies public expenditure on the basis of the principle of the occurrence of obligations, not on the basis of the principle of payment or cash flows. In the SDS Group, we would like to point out that in the future, the only relevant measure of the budget deficit under the European standards of ESA-95 is to measure the budgetary deficit according to the Maastricht criteria. In the SDS Group, we also believe that the former government and the Court of Auditors should, in the documents of the 2003 State Budget Final Account, which were issued after the entry into the EU, provide the national assembly, in addition to the information on the budgetary deficit according to the domestic methodology, with data based on the European methodology, thus on what we have to report to Brussels. It should also be noted that our domestic methodology differs from that of Europe when it comes to other accounting categories, which may also have a significant impact on the level of the budgetary and overall public financial deficit shown in one and the other methodology. Such an important difference is, for example, in showing exchange rates of government debt. Finally, the SDS Group will not accept the financial statements of the 2003 State budget and expects the current government to ensure that the 2004 State budget accounts are genuinely and fairly reflected in the budgetary and overall government deficit. I would like to say a few more words about the specific part of the 2003 State Budget Final Account. Firstly, with regard to drawing up audit opinions on the regularity of operations or compliance with regulations. In the specific part of the final account, the government shows us the realisation or implementation of the budget, the financial plans of direct budget users as part of the entire budget, both government and non-governmental. The Court of Auditors has its audit opinion on the correctness of the implementation of the State budget as a whole, on the basis of a revision of the regularity of only government, direct budget users, that is, the ministries, on selected samples, verified the correctness of payments made from the budget to 14 ministries; the four ministries were given a positive opinion, two negative and the other eight with reservations. The rules for the implementation of the State budget as a whole have been given by the audit opinion with reservation. When, and on what basis or on what criteria, an individual auditor will receive one of the three audit opinions, the Court of Auditors shall decide on the criteria that it shall establish. The question is whether the Court of Auditors is only competent to decide to what extent an irregularity is not considered to be an irregularity in the statement of an audit opinion. It is a matter of determining the degree of importance of individual irregularities. The Court of Auditors has established a level of importance between 0.5 and 5% for the 2003 final account. For values of up to two billion, the rate of importance was 5% and for higher values of 0.5% of importance. The question is, therefore, whether the Court of Auditors can really decide that a 5 % irregularity of up to 2 billion, which, by the way, amounts to up to 100 million dollars, is not considered to be an irregularity leading to a negative opinion. Would it not be more appropriate for such criteria to be determined in advance by the proposal and in agreement with the Court of Auditors by a national assembly or at least by its competent working body? The European Guidelines for the Implementation of International Audit Standards for State Audit recommend levels of importance in identifying irregularities between 0.5 and 2%. It would therefore be interesting to hear an answer on how Slovenia could afford several times the tolerance limits in determining irregularities as recommended by the European Union. Of course, the nature of the irregularity itself is very important in determining the degree of importance and irregularity. At such baselines, the Court of Auditors estimated that the total irregularities in the 2003 final account were at expenditure for employees of 0.7 billion, at current and investment expenditure of 1.8 billion, at current investment transfers of 2.3 billion total irregularities of 4.8 billion. In the SDS Group, we believe that the slightly earlier features of the finding of irregularities in the sentence of the audit opinion require additional answers or leave open a number of questions, so despite the audit opinion with reservation we will not confirm the correct implementation of the 2003 state budget. Let's take a second look at the most frequent violations of the rules. I will not repeat the individual types of irregularities identified in these segments of the budget expenditure, but we want to highlight the problems and issues that the solutions call for, as soon as possible, the very disclosure of the irregularity. From year to year, the Court of Auditors finds that the following irregularities arise: awarding public contracts without public tenders, selecting the most favourable bidder, although at least two correct tenders have not arrived, choosing the wrong procurement procedure, avoiding public tender by fragmentation of the contract, publishing irregularities and using the criteria for selecting the most favourable tenderer, irregularity in issuing low-value contracts. In the SDS Group, we believe that the procurement regime requires the establishment or definition of a clear disciplinary and criminal liability of public sector actors in public procurement. However, in the opinion of the SDS Group, it is necessary to standardise the system of internal control of public procurement by ministries and other government users first or at the same time as the definition of official responsibility. A government procurement office should have taken care of the correct and uniform implementation of the procurement procedures of the budgetary users, according to the SDS Group of Members, years ago. The question arising from the irregularities identified in the 2003 budget consumption is whether direct budgetary users can spend more budgetary resources than was set out in the budget or budget rebalancing. Six ministries have spent more on wages than was set even by a rebalancing of 1.8 billion in the mid-2003. Therefore, these ministries had to take funds for other purposes of budgetary spending. The Court of Auditors has drawn attention to the insufficiently linked wage policy by planning and analysing the implementation of the budget. It will certainly be necessary to pay more attention to this problem in the future and also to agree in the National Assembly whether the budgetary users can really take the money for salaries to other programmes or what is the limit of deviating the actual realization from the budget adopted. Thirdly, setting the objectives of the budgetary programmes and the criteria for measuring the achievement of the results. As an integral part of the audit report for the 2003 State budget accounts, the Court also prepared for three ministries an assessment of the targets and results achieved for the selected programmes. It examined whether certain ministry programmes clearly set objectives or criteria or indicators for measuring the achievements and results of the programmes. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that the last government under the leadership of the LDS has devoted very little attention to the planning of the budget programmes, and in particular too little to expect an improvement in the efficiency and efficiency of public spending. It is known that the budgetary expenditure of our state budget, financed through the Ministry, is divided into 24 areas of public expenditure. The areas are further divided into 97 programmes and approximately 300 active sub-programmes. 97 programmes are the responsibility of each ministry or body in its composition; the other 50 programmes are included in several ministries and bodies, of which 28 programmes are agreed at the same time after three ministries or even more ministries. Such a multitude of programmes and, in particular, sub-programmes from the new government certainly require a careful analysis of their eligibility, an assessment of whether the objectives have been set at all and monitoring the effectiveness of their implementation. With this large number of programmes and the findings of the Court of Auditors, it is not surprising that colleagues and fellow Members have not found in the material for this meeting transparent sets of budgetary programmes in order to find answers to any questions raised, what are the objectives of the programmes, how they are achieved and so on. We are the only country that does not pay the necessary attention to the objective and measurement of the achievement of the objectives of the budgetary programmes. However, the countries to which we want to approach the effectiveness of public spending have been working hard for many years to assess and evaluate the results of the budgetary programmes. In our national budget, actual savings and efficiency gains will not be possible until we have the necessary analysis of the implementation of the budgetary programmes until we provide the necessary data and draw up transparent reports for the national assembly as well. The current government is therefore facing very difficult work, as it will not be possible to do the work overnight. Fourth time. Common findings from the prior revision of some of the balance sheet items of the budgetary users. I have already spoken about the fact that the Court of Auditors has not yet delivered an opinion on the balance sheet or the balance sheet of the assets of our country as a whole when it comes to giving an opinion on the general part of the budget. Once again, I would like to point out that, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democrats' Group, it is imprecise to demonstrate and dispose of state-owned assets that both LDS-led governments and the Court of Auditors are responsible. The extent of our country's irregular disclosure of funds and liabilities after twelve years of its existence, honourable colleagues and fellow Members, according to the Slovenian Democrats' Group of Members, could best be understood if at least at this meeting they tried to read four to five pages of the audit findings of the Court of Auditors from the so-called preliminary audit of the 2003 balance sheet. However, we would like to invite a fellow Member with the longest experience in the current governments to read aloud in the SDS Group. We are convinced that there is no longer a call between us to answer why such irregularities could have taken place for so many years. Finally, in the SDS Group of Members, we will not accept the proposal for the 2003 State Budget Final Account, as we would thus share our responsibilities with the former government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Veršnik, for a comprehensive presentation. For the speaker's stage, I'd like to invite a mag. Milana M. Squikla to present the position of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u8	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me first to present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club on our decision on the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. Then I will comment on some of the opinions already made here by my colleague Veršnik. As a Member of the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the proposal for a final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, together with the conclusions and, in particular, with the conclusions proposed under Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure by the home body to the National Assembly. Why? For a number of reasons. The first reason is because we believe that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 has been implemented within the framework envisaged, in the context of the budget rebalancing that was adopted in this national assembly. We also note, of course, that what was carried out in 2003 to balance the budget was an appropriate action that ensured a smooth budgetary financing for users by the end of 2003. In 2003, it was also possible to provide additional funds for the transfer to the pension register due to better revenues than expected at the time of the rebalancing, and to create a reserve that addressed certain problems mainly in agriculture in 2004. The year 2003 will probably be the year in history, or we will look at history as a year in which everything that the Public Finance Act allows us to implement the programmes defined in the State budget has been properly applied. It is not good that, in 2003, at two ministries, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we know who the Minister was at the time, the current Minister, especially in the functioning of the Slovenian Office in the world, and at the Ministry of Defence, where, as a result of inadequate action within the individual bodies of the Ministry of Defence, incorrect application of the law on public procurement was made to these two ministries and therefore a negative opinion was given to these two ministries. In this regard, the Court of Auditors gave the correct opinion with a reservation to the implementation of the budget and gave a positive opinion on the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia as set out in the budget balance and as provided for in the legislation adopted in this national assembly. We will also support that decision or those of the Commission and the conclusions of the Commission proposing to the Government that, on the basis of the debate held in this National Assembly, we still do not have detailed information on the implementation of the 2004 budget on the basis of the work done with regard to cooperation with the Court of Auditors, and that the Government will do everything necessary to adopt the 2004 budget before the 2006 budget is considered. We believe that it is particularly important that some of the conclusions from the competence of the Commission have also been reached in the discussion at the home labour body, which allow, of course, if the government takes them seriously, to prepare a draft budget, and in particular to remedy those shortcomings in the preparation of the final account related to the system of preparation of financial plans reports, so that the objectives and industrious indicators of these objectives will be as clear as possible. In this regard, I think it will be very interesting to follow up on this work, how the government, as it has heard last week, will actually be able to reduce the number of programmes to a number less than 300. Of course, we will be following this with interest, given the previous discussion. We believe that, of course, it is necessary to make the necessary changes to public procurement legislation in the following directives, including the European Union directives relating to public procurement, so that we will support the decision proposed by the Commission to the National Assembly, in order to propose to the Government that legislation on public procurement be amended as soon as possible, so that the rules do not interfere with the smooth implementation of public procurement and are in line with the new European Union directive in this area. We also believe that it is good for the government to complete the transformation of the criminal authorities as soon as possible and thus ensure that the ZPIZ for the provision of records and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for the offences set out in the law on the Court of Auditors will fully exercise their powers as violators. This is the case in substance where the discussion on the audit report of the Pension Insurance Office found that additional efforts should be made in the records. The National Assembly would also propose to the government, and we will support this decision to ensure, as soon as possible, a uniform system for the collection of data on social transfers for the population and in this regard uniform and to link the information systems of the Ministry of Labour, Tax Administration, Employment Office, PPIZ, the Ministry of Education and all those who grant social benefits to citizens, since this will ensure that the aid does not double or accumulate and that social transfers are not unduly received. We believe that it would be appropriate to propose. We will also support the decision, the Commission's proposal to propose to the government that, in line with the new developments in the local self-government system, and in particular with the additional tasks assigned to the municipalities, it complements the system for funding municipalities and other local communities. Of course, we will also support the decision in the parliamentary club to adopt the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. The reasons are as follows: of course, we think it is good and appropriate for the state to receive the final bill. If you decide in the ruling coalition not to accept the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia, then you will give the first negative opinion to your government. By letter of 17 December, your government adopted and adopted a document called the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. Of course, your government could have all the powers to do so, withdraw the final budget account for 2003 and make it as explained here by the SDS representative. I must, of course, say that if you refuse to do so, then the question arises as to what are the foundations of the government, which is also independent - the Minister of Finance is not here to be asked whether he has just signed himself under a non-convergence programme - on what basis this government has adopted a convergence programme, if its foundation in 2003 is not clear. Or, as the SDS representative has explained, it is not even appropriate. You have doubts about some serious numbers that are being seriously monitored by, among other things, the international rating agencies as well as the European Commission. And I must say that it would be very interesting to observe your disagreement and the non-acceptance of the final account and the functioning of the government as to what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will do. Are you going to suggest that we rebalance? Are you going to reverse the laws so that, for example, as you said, you can put the elements of the Basic Development Programmes Act into the budget if, of course, we have a law that very clearly defines how we express consumption. Let me say that before this great dilemma will be your Prime Minister. In 1994, your Prime Minister proposed a law on basic development programmes for reasons which he would not explain here, since the meeting should probably be closed to the public, and this law was adopted. Today, as Prime Minister, of course, he will say that the Basic Development Programmes Act is not the law adopted by this National Assembly and has not allowed the Slovenian Army to equip itself in the past ten years. What the SDS Group proposes is regrettable. It is particularly regrettable that all of these previously appointed decisions, as the Commission's report says, were adopted unanimously at the Commission's meeting - unanimously, all six members of the Commission, including the Member who spoke before me, on behalf of the Group of Members, agreed. We have discussed this for 20 hours, drawn up conclusions, conclusions from the Commission and conclusions for the National Assembly in order to move forward. And because he failed to tell us about it within 20 hours of the meeting of his mother's working body and because he spoke about some of the unrealities here, let me also answer briefly about this in the time that we have as a member group. First time. It is not true that the document was not published in the National Assembly. The document has been published. It was published in the Rapporteur and members of the Commission received all 2,500 pages of printed documents before the Commission meeting at the end of November. But if you open your computer, you will find all the documents in PDF under the treatment of your parent's working body. However, we can also make a decision on this - and so is the proposal, as I understand, of the Secretary-General of the National Assembly - to change the way the rapporteur publishes, which requires certain changes, because this Rapporteur will be a little fatter. But the documents are all available, and it's not true that documents are hidden. It is true that the government, given the holidays, Saturdays and Sundays, submitted six working days later the final budget account to the National Assembly, especially because the Court of Auditors was 30 days too late, depending on the deadlines, to draw up the final report. This can be done. In this regard, we also said that it would be good and we expect that the Minister of Finance - this is the current framework - to ensure before summer that the government will accept this so that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia can be considered at the September meeting, which means, of course, that it would be on the home working body sometime before summer holidays. The Member of Parliament also spoke about the balance sheet situation and the inadequate balance sheet. In the Rapporteur you have published a consolidated asset balance sheet, presented very clearly to everyone. For several months now, you can read that the assets balance in the Republic of Slovenia is 5,666 billion. The main issue that we have discussed and which is a question for auditors, and especially for those who would like to spend a few billion dollars, first of all to create a new computer system at the Ministry of Finance, is whether we will appreciate this wealth balance. This can be done, too, but these countries in the world go on about every 10 years because it costs money. It's going to cost between one and three percent. And, of course, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whose representative or representatives of the coalition have spoken today, considers this to be the most important priority, then in the 2005 budget it should be around 50 to 150 billion for asset valuations, but it costs so much to make an asset valuation. Because, of course, you say that the consolidated asset balance is inadequate and does not reflect this. Today we do not accept consolidated asset balance sheets. Today we accept the final account of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been adopted: the balance of revenue, the balance of accounts of financial claims and liabilities and the financing account. Of course, I would tire out the Slovenian public and this national assembly if I could talk about this for a long time, so let me finish slowly. Why there is no balance sheet for each budgetary user, I have already replied to the Member at the Commission's own meeting. Because the budgetary user, especially the direct budgetary user, is not a legal person and therefore we have a balance sheet of the state. We even have a consolidated balance sheet of the country, municipalities and, of course, both PIZs. The Member spoke about a number of questions of methodological nature, as well as of course issues related to incorrect or inadequate indications, and would therefore of course suggest that if you adopt the conclusions proposed by the Commission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will commit itself to taking a step forward in the implementation of the activity, better presentation, more transparent presentation of public consumption. But if you don't take these conclusions, then we'll be back on track. However, let me tell you, to those who do not know this, although I do not doubt it, Slovenia has been under the care of many at the time of entry into the EU. The adoption of the relevant legislation, the transparency of the presentation of the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia and the rebalancing of the budget of Slovenia has been identified by many institutions, especially the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and those with whom we participated in the twinning programmes as one of the more appropriate. You also have written documents on that. Of course, this is never the end of the story. Each year it is possible to move forward and it is undoubtedly possible in individual activities, such as demonstrating the objectives that are being achieved on individual programmes, such as demonstrating and preparing measurable indicators, the power of things to improve. And I am pleased that you have this in your programme, and we will be happy to monitor on your mother's working body first how you will prepare the final account for 2004, how you will prepare the 2005 budget rebalancing, how you will define these measurable indicators in it and how you will do it. On behalf of the LDS Club, we will support the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, because we believe that, together with the Court of Auditors' opinion, which has been discussed here, the College of the President of the National Assembly has concluded that the representatives of the Court of Auditors are not able to respond to this, and that the public finances in the Republic of Slovenia are fully appropriately represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much, mag. Squeak. Allow me a brief warning at this point. In their presentations, the representatives of the two groups were also embroiled by different parliamentary groups. The purpose of the presentation of positions is only to present views, not debate and controversy, because a replica is not allowed at this stage. I would therefore ask that further discussion and debate be reserved for the part where we will have a debate of Members. Now, as a speaker, I would like to invite Mrs Bredo Pecan to present the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice President and representatives of the government! In its position, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats highlighted the fact that the 2003 final budget account is being dealt with for the first time after, we can now say, thirteen years, twelve years in fact, when one government coalition and one political group are considering the budget implemented by another government coalition or another political group. This happened in 1993 for the 1992 budget and 1991 budget and now it is for 2003 and I hope that the end of this year will be for 2004. For this reason, I believe that the new government coalition will have an exceptional opportunity to draw from this review of the 2003 final budget account, as well as the very analytical opinion of the government representative we have heard today on the final budget account, even a series of sciences or even a series of ideas on how to deal properly with public funds. For every time the government, each time a coalition, has entrusted not only power but also money, public money, with which the government coalition is to achieve its goals and achieve the vision it had at the time of taking power. The basic principle of public funds management is that you reach almost everything or, if only possible, everything a coalition has set itself at the beginning of its term of office. Therefore, we can expect, or I am almost certain, that, as of 1 January, the new government coalition has thoroughly instructed on the correct procurement procedures, on the correct procedures for the allocation of public funds to indirect budgetary users, on the proper implementation of public calls, on the correct setting of criteria and criteria for the selection of individual contractors in public procurement, so that there will be no need to repeat calls from the Court of Auditors not to be heard in the audit report that we, or to be reading, have violated the law on public procurement or the law on public finances, as we have heard and read in this final account or in this audit for 2003. The Court of Auditors has already focused on other areas of the 2003 final budget account, as has been the practice in previous years, before 2003. It also focused on verifying the cost-effectiveness of public spending and on verifying the achievement of the objectives and results set by each programme. We are confident in the United List of Social Democrats that in preparing the 2005 budget and the 2006 budget, the government will set such targets and formulate such expected results under individual programmes, which will be more realistic than those in 2003, and that they will incorporate criteria to evaluate the achievement of the objectives and results set. This is the true content of spending public funds. At that time, at the time of the revision and the consideration of the 2005 final budget account, we will be able to say that the new government coalition is doing better, better, more cost-effectively, with more public resources than the previous government has done. There's an opportunity here, and that's why I think we should use it. I would also like to draw attention to the interesting fact that, despite the fact that the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances is drawn up in a relationship, I will say that the three representatives of the government coalition, the three representatives of the opposition, have adopted unanimously all the conclusions which were, of course, also made in the debate itself, supplemented by consensus. I believe that the Commission President's statement that we have been working for 20 hours on this final budget account is enough to say. It was good that we had a long and thorough discussion about all the good and bad salaries of this final account, that we had found that the most frequent infringement or error was no longer what was found in the first audits of the Court of Auditors, namely in the first years of the Court of Auditors' operation, that its auditors focused mainly on the way in which the salaries paid, the extent to which the travel costs were paid, while "all barked" if I could say "the caravan went by" or "the elephants walked by" without being noticed. I think that elephants are hiding mainly in the enforcement of the Public Procurement Act, and we have found in the Commission that this is one of the main flaws, this is also noted by all experts involved in the use of public finances, so it has been pointed out to the new government coalition that it has to focus on this in particular, that public procurement will be carried out in accordance not only with the legislation but, above all, that the criteria that will be installed for the proper selection of suppliers, contractors and so on will be such that they will be truly transparent and will not allow abuse. This can happen, but it must not happen what has happened in the defence ministry, where, in order to avoid internal controls, I stress, internal controls, they have divided two public contracts into approximately 25 smaller contracts, so that no tender has to be made. I think that these are the most basic and most serious violations and that such things should not actually happen with public money. Here, the UK Group of Social Democrats believes that each time a revision of the Court of Auditors, wherever it happens, is intended in particular to alert the user of public funds where he has made mistakes. For it is not said that every time a user of public funds makes a mistake, he makes it deliberately, with a bad purpose, with a view to taking advantage of it, or anything like that. No, no, no. He wanted to simplify the procedure, often explaining why something was wrong, that it was more rational and so on. It is said that there is an area where very much can be done in the prudent treatment of public money and, of course, also in the allocation of funds to individual indirect users so that the indirect user can benefit from the means so that he can actually report it in full. The UK Group will support the 2003 final budget account and also propose to the government coalition to do so because, in fact, without a final account, it is very difficult to move forward in the new budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons. I invite Member Cyril Testen to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u12	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of the Government. The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, the Court of Auditors and the National Assembly have for several years noted that the annual accounts have improved, and this is not considered by the New Slovenia to be the case for the 2003 final budget account, compared only with the previous year 2002. Again, we have two ministries, foreign affairs and defence, which have received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. Even more worrying, in our view, are the errors that occur year after year, from the Ministry to the Ministry and almost all other budgetary consumers. In New Slovenia, we believe that the time has come when the government, with the help of its experts, will have to propose legislation that will provide, as appropriate, sanctions for irregularities in budget implementation. As far as individual errors are concerned, first of all it is necessary to point out public procurements which, in our view, are the most worrying. In our opinion, public procurement is largely for errors related to the intention to award the contract to a specific supplier. Otherwise, it would be difficult to interpret the Court’s findings on the breakdown of orders at several smaller and prices several times higher than normal. It is often the case that contract preparers also poorly prepare the relevant documentation, resulting in an annex that often exceeds 25% of the basic value. Undoubtedly, there are also several such cases where a bidder who, due to the acquisition of parts, prepares an offer that is lower than the real one, and later without having to "compensate" it with an annex. Please also allow me to say in relation to public procurement that in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the tenderers are in a privileged position compared to the contracting authority and that they have countless possibilities of complaints and thus delay with the choice of supplier. We believe that this does great harm to all budgetary users who, at the end of the phase, receive less and more expensive services or equipment as a result of delay. There has been a great deal in the 2003 final budget account of reallocation of spending rights within and between individual users. New Slovenia is particularly disturbed by the redistribution of funds from all ministries, investment or other programmes to wages, we have not in any case followed the reverse direction. There is no doubt that wage planning has been very inaccurate and that over-payments are also due to poor staffing plans and employment beyond agreed frameworks. The New Slovenia Group supports the Commission's proposal to monitor the budget and other public finances, which proposes to the Court of Auditors to pay more attention to the larger transferees in the future. Here we think of large users, such as various social institutions, primary schools, universities, secondary schools, hospitals. In practice, these users have been audited very rarely, generally only in cases where there has been a resounding affair. Undoubtedly, the consolidated wealth balance is also a major asset for the Ministry of Finance and for the whole government. Some representatives of the Ministry of Finance, as well as some representatives of the Commission, expressed their concerns that the preparation of the State's assets balance is too frequent and too costly, and also doubts about its credibility. In New Slovenia we believe that we must have a wealth balance, how often we will prepare it, and it is a matter of agreement. Finally, I would say that the Court of Auditors also has written in its tasks the determination of the usefulness and efficiency of the use of resources, which is undoubtedly an extensive and difficult task. In the case of three ministries, the Court of Auditors has tried to assess the cost-effectiveness, performance and efficiency of budget spending on three items. The Court of Auditors has found that it has not yet met the criteria for assessing effectiveness. We are convinced that it is necessary to establish criteria for such monitoring, which will be the basis for such a type of review. However, we do not agree with the Court of Auditors in the case of a review or evaluation of the effectiveness of the Government, because we believe that there were conditions for assessing efficiency, but the Court of Auditors has not issued this assessment. The opinion of Nova Slovenije is also that, despite the favourable financial flows of the macroeconomic objectives in 2003, the government has not achieved them, especially if we know that we have substantially reduced these targets by the budgetary rebalancing. We didn't get those either. We expect representatives of the former government to say something in further discussion on this issue that we will be able to take a decision on whether to approve or reject the 2003 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Testen. As a speaker, I invite Mr Kristian Janc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances at its five meetings addressed the proposal of the 2003 Final Account, which was very long, difficult and also substantively precise. We have also found that there are too many irregularities, an irrational use of budgetary resources, for which negative opinions or opinions have also been given with the exception of the Court of Auditors. It may be at least partly disputed whether Milan Cwickl, who runs this commission and supervises the previous government, presides over this committee. Therefore, some of the statements to the rapporteur, if you have read them well, are much more friendly than they may be for the control of 2005. However, I hope that the 2005 budget will be more favourable in terms of supervision and spending of public finances. The Commission shall be accompanied by representatives of the Court of Auditors, ministers or secretaries of the new government who have nothing to do with the 2003 budget. In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they are as negative as the opinion with reservations, which of course is not good and raises concerns as the responsible have obviously not been sufficiently attentive to budgetary spending. The following findings that we have seen on the Commission have also been observed: modestly or substantially insufficiently successful EU funding from our country. Secondly, the great problem of the PSI, where there is a large budget gap and there is no way to approach at least a partial recovery of this budget deficit. An even bigger problem seems to me that the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which has a very poor information system and unregulated tax records, is simply unacceptable to us for the time we live in and not least we have a separate Ministry of Information Society, but we do not have these records regulated. We see a major problem in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is the Institute for Health Care of the Republic of Slovenia. It's just like on the STD, where there's a huge deficit and it's not being addressed by the previous government. The Commission is proposing some adjustments to the new government, which, according to our assessment, are necessary for the future of this government's work and also for budgetary consumers. Firstly, it is certain to regulate the funding system of municipalities due to the many new commitments that have emerged in the past, transferred by the State to the local level. Secondly, the Government should prepare, as soon as possible, an amendment to public procurement legislation where there are many shortcomings and comply with the new directive of the European Union in this area, which we must start implementing no later than 1.1.2006. Everyone's already talking about this marriage. It's ridiculously useless. Thirdly, to simplify the system of data capture on social transfers for the population, to link the information system between the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social, Durs, Health Insurance, the Ministry of Education, Sport and others, because it is unacceptable that we do not have a harmonised information system today, although we have invested a great deal in this information area. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group is that there is a need to strengthen control over the legitimate use of all budgetary users, to prepare and supplement existing legislation, where greater transparency of public finances' income and expenditure will be possible. It is necessary to address the rehabilitation of the ZPIZ, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which are large financial patients with a long-term illness, if not with a chronic illness. It would also be good for the Government to prepare as soon as possible more detailed information on the implementation of the 2004 budget. However, we propose to the Court of Auditors that, as soon as possible, it should carry out an audit of the final accounts for each financial year, not as before. Finally, the position of the Group of Members. We note that such late adoption of the 2003 final budget is simply not allowed in time. Too many negative opinions and opinions with reservations from the Court of Auditors in large budget consumers are also indisputable and, of course, unsatisfactory from the point of view of public finances. I've already mentioned the issue of running a monitoring commission, and I also think it's very 'crazy' to that river. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Who says crows don't turn off eyes [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and we hope that the closing account for 2004 will be more favourable and more transparent. [[...]] Finally, honourable colleagues and colleagues, on the basis of the arguments of today's meeting in the National Assembly, the Slovenian People's Party Group will decide to support the adoption of the accounts for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Janc. I invite Mr Saš Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! According to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, there is a paradox of public finances in hiding for the sign "public". Which means, in other words, that the responsibility for managing public finances is diversified, even though we all know that a public finance manager is a specific person who is usually - the emphasis is usually on - hiding in the Ministry of Finance. On the one hand, we are faced with content that dispels responsibility or responsibility for managing this amount of money represents or imposes upon all citizens and citizens. But for just one person or under her authority, there is a narrow circle of people who manage this property. And every year we face negative management and no responsibility. This brings together a paradox and the whole nonsense of public finance policy in our country. The purpose of the implementation of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is, in particular, to pursue the desire for changes in public finances, in order for the responsible persons at the Ministry of Finance and Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be finally aware of what it means and how responsible public finances are. So as not to be enforced or to continue to apply the practice so far, when everyone considered the various deficits that always burden citizens and citizens at the end of the day, no one was responsible. Every year, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party - I will mention only newer after the dates of 28 November 2002, we accepted or accepted the Final Account for the year 2000, on 26 March 2003 for the year 2001 and on 19 May 2004 we adopted the Final Account for the year 2002. Every year on this day, within the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we called on, appealed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, offering solutions for a different approach in the field of public finance policy in our country. But all these years we've been talking like a wall. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the current mandate, i.e. the previous government, did not do what we said in the parliamentary group, nowhere, and therefore we are logically confronted with acts which, according to our assessment, are more than harmful to our country, i.e. acts with the same content as the 2003 budget. Behind this pay phone, we warned and gave instructions to the manager. And according to our assessment, at least as part of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we can state with full responsibility that the operator was in 2003 and before that for the area of public finances, Mr Tone Rop, or the one who came in his place, Mr Maramor. So we can no longer talk about not knowing the culprit for the poor state of public finances. We know exactly who he is. Until the change of government, it was the Ministry of Finance's fault in the previous mandate, but if public finance policy is to take place in the future, it will be Mr Bajuk's fault - a very simple matter. On the other hand, it is a major problem because no one has ever said or anticipated any sanctions for such public action as it is in our country. And here we are again at what I started speaking on behalf of the parliamentary group, at the paradox -- so the biggest problem with public finances is that they are public. There has never been an effect on deficits, on the impact on the burdens of citizens and citizens. Each year, the final bill was accepted, usually by a large majority that exceeded that majority of the ruling coalition. In the framework of the parliamentary group, we are convinced that the final account should not be accepted for 2000 or 2001, 2002 and 2003. We are confident that we must not receive it today. If the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, confirms the final account, it shall also confirm the public finances policy for that year. And we cannot then be so double that, if public finance policy is confirmed, it is being criticised in the future at the same time. That's not going to work. Today, when we decide whether to confirm the final bill or not, we must be aware that we are giving either a positive opinion or a negative one, in the Slovenian National Party we will give a negative opinion on the public finances policy for 2003. According to the assessment of our Group of Members, we believe that public finances do not deserve a positive position by the National Assembly in 2003. In doing so, at least after our assessment, we would achieve what is most important, so that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will tell the new Minister of Finance that the games, such as those played before us by the Liberal Democracy and the United List in the field of public finance policy in this National Assembly, are no longer going to be responsible for this mandate - the 2004-2008 mandate is greater than it was before. I have already said that today's possible non-voting of the 2003 accounts would be an act at the level of policy, an act which would make it clear to the future or current Minister of Finance that the political will or will of the legislator is more difficult to deal with, in particular, with the content, public finances and a more responsible attitude towards public finances. The content of the final account before us, that is, for 2003, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, is worrying, despite probably all of the clear foundations on which this final account is based, that is to say that the numbers are unrealistic. A major problem would be, or a much greater problem, if we met in this document with real numbers, because then the negative indexation or the increased difference between income and expenditure would be only so much greater that we could not in any way show it to our own citizens, not to Europe, nor to any one that depends on the budgetary acts or acts that carry the scope of public finances in their content. At the same time, all too often, material builders as a government, as a national assembly, forget that budgets and rebalans and final accounts are not accepted because of ourselves, but because of the fact that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are bound to these acts. The vast majority of us are linked mainly to the revenue side, but also to many on the expenditure side. The irresponsibility of the previous call of the National Assembly is so much greater, given that the acts of the final budget account and the rebalancing not only bear yes or against but, above all, bind us to our economic movements in the country or public finances among citizens. According to the Slovenian National Party, the movement between revenue and expenditure is shown in the first, i.e. the general part of the final account. In doing so, we are tried by the proposaler of the material, just as we have been doing all these years, after our assessment, to make us believe in the wrong base. In the draft accounts, the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the indexation is based on the 2003 budget balance. At the same time, we must not forget that this balance was adopted on 19.6., that is, in the second half of the year. What does that mean? That we have a closing account for only the second half of 2003. The budget, which is the basis for the rebalancing and within it is the basis of the rebalancing, is indicated by our estimate of the figures that do not show reality. And who's that good for? According to our assessment, this is possible only because the policy of its role in voting on such acts is not sufficiently responsible, or because the paper transfers everything. If indexation were linked to basic assumptions, i.e. to an adopted budget, not to an adopted balance, all percentages would change in indexation labels. However, since the percentage is only a label for financial movements or amounts, in the case of public finances, we are talking about millions of tolars, this only means that if we had before us a real picture of public finances moving in 2003, citizens and all those who are interested should be aware of a much larger deficit, with a much greater debt than was the custom of the Liberal Democracy and the United Nations when they had the Ministry of Finance in their hands. The rebalancing, not the budget, I stress, the rebalancing that was adopted on 19.6.2003, which is the basis for the final account, but once again I stress that we accept or accept the final account for the second half of 2003. I do not want anyone in our house, that is, in the House of the National Assembly, or in the Republic of Slovenia so naive, and he will believe that the budget for the whole year 2003 is ahead. As far as we're concerned, the other, very important things are the so-called half-year shifts. On the income side, if we look at the indexation of the movement between revenue - total revenue and other revenue, we see a movement between plus 7.28 indexations to minus 70%. This means, in other words, that the Slovenian government had planned or implemented what it had predicted at 23% in total, in the area of public finances, as one of the most sensitive areas of life in our country. According to our assessment, this is, of course, very irresponsible, very kind. It is very irresponsible that the probability level of the budget item is 23%. The calculation, i.e. the percentage calculation from +7.28 to minus 70% on indexation, must be said that we did not include capital expenditure. So that part of the sale, I don't know, of the assets, and the similar things that turned out to be, I don't think I'm going to be looking for the indexation right now is over 270 percent. This means that for six months the government did not even know what it was going to sell and what income it would earn. The longevity in the act before us is, unfortunately, not. On the other hand, the shift between the planned, I stress once again, planned in the second half of 2003 and completed, i.e. the realization of 2003 on the expenditure side on average only 3.8%. What does that prove? It only proves that the original sin of Slovenian public finances is in the so-called budget revenue side. In other words, this can be said that spending has never been a problem of the rule of the Liberal Democracy and of the United Kingdom. I sincerely hope that this strategy will change in the future mandate. In order for the government to be modern to mark with a new government, it is now aware of the importance of the revenue side that it will not allow these gaps to be more than 70% on the income side alone. According to our assessment or I must stress the second area of the mix of errors, that is, of course, the structure of revenue. When we discussed the final budget within the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group days ago, we discussed whether we should put forward this second set of mistakes in the area of public finances, given that we have already highlighted this in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004, there has been no impact. Then it came to my conclusion that it makes sense, given that we have other public property managers. The revenue side for 2003, i.e. the revenue side of the final account, amounts to a billion 392 Slovenian tolars. Of this, current revenues amount to 1378 billion Slovenian tolars. Now comes that, according to our assessment, catastrophic part, division into tax revenue and non-tax revenue. The percentage ratio is worse every year in this country. In the final account, i.e. the last act, which we can safely claim to be a closed area and that we can no longer financially influence it, tax revenues amount to even 93.1% this time, and non-tax revenues amount to only 6.9%. No Member State of the European Union has this relationship against its citizens as strongly as the Republic of Slovenia does. No local community in the Republic of Slovenia has this relationship as negative in favour of its citizens as the State of the Republic of Slovenia does. In other words, the Republic of Slovenia, the former government, the planner, has collected more than 90% of all financial resources through tax revenues, which means that it has collected through that component which is not possible for a citizen or a citizen to say no, because if you do not pay the tax, it is a sanction. This is, of course, the easiest way to fill the state budget. While, of course, our good government has always and increasingly left behind the so-called non-tax revenues, which in 2003 reached only 6.9%. What are the recent revenues probably does not need to be spoken specifically. In any case, they have one property that does not have tax revenue, namely that the amount of tax revenue is mainly influenced by the ability of the government or the departmental ministry. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it is necessary to say with certainty that unfortunately Slovenia did not have the right time to appoint the people who led the public finances policy in our country. We can safely say that our country, we sincerely hope that this will no longer fall on taxes, while it has ignored all those revenues that show the ability to manage public finances. Why? Two reasons. We found the first one. Because taxes are mandatory and no one pays them, whether they are natural or legal, they will be subject to sanctions. Secondly, because the management of non-tax revenue requires knowledge or responsibility. Some of this was missing from the previous government. It's my assessment of both. Since 2000 we have drawn attention to these systemic errors of public finances in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Always, unfortunately, empty. The result of the government's ignorance is shown in the 2003 final account. I believe, unfortunately, that the story will be repeated in the closing account for 2004. However, I wish that the story would not be repeated in the 2005 final account, probably in 2007, when we meet with it. We have not offered solutions in the Slovenian National Party on how many occasions, through the debate in the National Assembly, through the institution of the parliamentary question or the institution of the parliamentary initiative. But, of course, none of the proposed solutions, the government's guidance has ever been realized, although we all know about the state of public finances since 2000 and we know that it is catastrophic, despite the fact that the "catastrophe" in quotations, of course, is trying to mitigate the situation with unrealistic figures and with various semi-annual rebalans or budgets and thus with final accounts. According to our assessment, it would be most reasonable to approach a balanced public finance policy primarily through three steps. I sincerely hope that today I will tell them that it will not be necessary for this government to repeat things every year and so the next day will be forgotten. The first step is so-called, if I go in sequence, like the accounts in the final account, it is mainly in the roof concession act. As you probably all know, at least those who deal with local community issues are bidding concessions in exchange for the provision of certain public services or for the acquisition of financial resources, concession revenue. In the country of the Republic of Slovenia, we do not yet have a simple roof law in 10 years and a few years to define the concession. All concessions, which are defined on the basis of municipal decisions or on the basis of individual implementing acts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, although not in this area the budget, of course as a result of this final account, loses some transparent form of additional budgetary resources. Further, it is our assessment that it would make sense, no, I apologize, not meaningfully, but urgently necessary to approach the normalisation of the status forms of enterprises. On the one hand, we see that we still have many companies owned by the State, which are managed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia more or less directly and have at the same time the status of a public undertaking and, on the other hand, an economic company. But what is most interesting and most controversial about this, when we support it every year, is, of course, so much more, I apologize for the expression, I do not think that the status form of a public undertaking operates on the basis of the law on public companies, which, on the basis of this same law, is intended to work in the interest of citizens' accessibility in ensuring public interest, and on the other hand, this same company has the form of an economic society or a capital company, d.d., in which, under the law on economic societies, the fundamental objective is profit. And in this assumption, or in this legal nonsense, when our country allows double legal value or base, the system of a particular enterprise, our country, our budget is losing financial resources because of the spillover of losses, on the one hand they are being paid by the state budget or they are being met and, on the other hand, profits are being shared on the basis of capital values or the company law. I still have to say - but it is probably very pointless that I speak, because if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to take action by the Slovenian National Party, it would be already, and all the measures are, after all, also in the Lotus Notes computer network or on the government, at the Ministry of Finance - I must say that in the Slovenian National Party, in 2001, 2002 and 2003, we have submitted many, many proposals to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for better public finances in our country. To conclude, allow the following. In the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, despite the appeal of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, we will not, of course, support the final account. We think that this kind of begging and pointing out that this has to be done only points to one thing: that certain parties - and interestingly, these parties have always been at the government - are trying to close this infamous chapter and confirm the closing account. We don't think that's gonna happen. Today, the National Assembly should vote negatively, so it should not accept the final account. With this in mind, the responsible government, for which I hope it is responsible - the emphasis on hope - would have to accept what is the point of my speech and many others before me, that the area of public finances is too sensitive to be followed exclusively through the term public. I'm not responsible for him. It doesn't matter if we have losses, if we have deficits, and it doesn't matter if our citizens and citizens are in charge. In my opinion, we have to say no. It is necessary to take a different step towards a different system of public finance management and to be aware of the consequences of an irresponsible attitude towards public finances than we have seen in the past. Of course, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the final account as we did in previous years. However, we sincerely hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take those few hundred steps further in addressing the subject of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Once again, I would like to ask you to focus on the final account and not on the persons, governments, parties, ministers and so on. He will be the last to present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ambassador Vila Rezman. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, everybody! The assessments of what the report is and what was the implementation of the budget will go on and can go in the diapazone from extreme rejections to overestimating favourably. The DeSUS Group is not inclined to address any of the extremes, nor is it that the report prepared by the Committee on Budgetary Control should be quite disassociated, even though there are some weaknesses in it. The Commission's report, if generally assessed, is actually a report that claims that business was good. This is also noted in the findings, seven such findings, among which they could be assessed, I now literally cite, with assessments in accordance with the objectives, favourable, successful and appropriate. In some areas, that is certainly the case. Not everywhere. The only more serious warning, a serious consideration of implementation, was given by the Commission again explicitly, as a great concern about the stability and sustainability of the pension and health system. In view of the findings it has provided, the Commission has tried, or is proposing, a whole series of conclusions which I believe do not appear to be such as to be overlooked, because some of them provide better work, but some of them are, in fact, recognizing the errors that have been made in the previous mandate, and some of them should also be listed. Therefore, it is certainly not possible to say that those errors and irregularities mentioned in the report are only intended for this whole page on page 24 of this report. So they're mistakes that we could just ignore. We certainly cannot overlook the fact that only four of the 14 ministries have received a positive assessment. So, the power is to find some weaknesses, irregularities, mistakes, violations. And there's nothing wrong with admitting that we could start putting an end to this. In doing so, the Commission has chosen such a dictatorship as to assess how these problems are actually benign. I feel that it is not quite so and that it would be very bad if we accepted this as some everyday thing, as some matrix that should be repeated from year to year, and would become insensitive to some of these weaknesses that are mentioned. Today there were already some of them listed. Let me just repeat that, of course, it is unacceptable that so many years in a row and in all the reports, whatever we read, there are many mistakes, irregularities regarding the violation of the law on public procurement. That, in fact, it is unacceptable to make so little use of the resources, those that the European Union is making for our faster development or that we are no longer able to prepare ourselves to make use of it. It is also unacceptable to simply acknowledge that in the past the municipalities or local communities have been overly drained, that some have been pushed to the side, and that some have not even found solutions. Of course, it is also bad that if we look at the structure - even the structure was mentioned today in the debate - the expenditure remains unfavourable. Those 9% for investment transfers and investments are probably not enough to be able to prepare themselves for better European funding and for faster development in our country. Final bill, that's what we're judging. It's supposed to be accepted. The final account concludes the situation backwards and it is right to accept it and at the same time point to what has been proposed in the conclusions as an improvement or as an error. In this respect, however, it is a shame that the report has been prepared - this is the infertility of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 33 - that body, because, according to the Rules of Procedure, the one sitting in the opposition should have a leading role, but because of the phased delay and these elections, it has not been so and that the intention has in fact turned itself against itself. Someone mentioned the crows before, and I'll say the rest: it's hard to expect foxes to protect chickens.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Rezman. Before we proceed with the debate, let me just say that the three parliamentary groups have already come to debate, this is the United List, the SLS and DeSUS. We are now coming to the debate of Members and Members on the proposal for an act and the proposed conclusions. My word to Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, fellow Members and Members. The overall impact of the review of the final account is that it is not possible to see from the 2003 final budget account whether the funds have been used effectively. So, of course, it's not clear from this final account. Budget users describe more or less past events, business and their consequences, but do not describe the consequences of these events on the social well-being itself or on the implementation of the mission of state institutions. Generally speaking, there are no clear concepts, such as economy, efficiency, efficiency, and this has already been discussed by my fellow Member Testen, and I would like to add something to this in this limited time. Let me first stop at the Commission's finding, which has written down the following in its report, that at the time of the current review they have found - this is said to refer to the Court of Auditors - that the planning situation has improved, but there is still insufficient clear picture of the effects of the individual programme. So it's not clear enough about the results. There are still no concrete criteria to monitor the achievement of the objectives set. [[...]] [[End of story.]] Indeed, until the criteria for cost-effectiveness, efficiency, efficiency are drawn up, it will be difficult to discuss the final account or year after year we will repeat the same, we will find that the Court of Auditors has found the correctness or irregularity of the financial statements, or that budgetary use has also been reflected through social well-being or whether certain effects and objectives have been achieved, of course we will not be able to talk about it. [[...]] Otherwise, the question is whether such criteria as to reflect an image of economy, economics, the use of budgetary expenditure is even possible. In the New Slovenia Group, we think that for the entire budget, we probably don't, but for individual or specific budget items. Let me give you some examples or some thoughts. For example, how could we assess the impact of all social measures, namely the impact of social measures on family policy? Recently, there has been a lot of talk about this demographic policy, and the government has set itself a priority in 2005 mainly in the area of demographics, and it is said to improve nativity. If we were to measure the success of social policy in the past through the criteria of birthrates, then we can assess that these effects on social well-being in all these years have been weak or modest by some of the previous governments of power and that we have actually come into a situation like this today in the Republic of Slovenia. Or, for example, the area of the judiciary, the Hercules program! Nowhere in this final account are the effects of the use of the budget in this area evaluated. This would be possible, i.e. effects could be measured both qualitatively and quantitatively. It would simply be necessary to say how much judicial backlog has been reduced through this programme and how much money spent in this area has contributed to this social well-being. In this way, the courts refer to external influences and say that efficiency in their work cannot be measured and that it makes sense, of course, to assess efficiency and efficiency. Undoubtedly, economic performance and efficiency in this area could be monitored; in the end, the administrative court has acted differently in this explanation and lists the figures indicating productivity by employee in the work of administrative courts. Or if I might touch the area of health. We use a lot of resources, but there are no actual figures in the explanation of the final account, for how many waiting types have been reduced, this could, of course, be explained and, through this, express the cost-effectiveness of the funds used. Nowhere in the Ministry of Health is anything recorded about economy and efficiency. And one more if you want; the area - the functioning of the tax administration. Work and resources spent on the functioning of the tax administration could also be measured with some indicators, it would be possible to show how much tax administration becomes more successful from year to year, how many tax procedures are resolved, for example, without complaints, and in what time. We know that there are many complaints about the work of the tax administration that the procedures are incomprehensiblely long, that there are huge costs and so on. In view of this, it would be possible to assess the eligibility of the resources used for the operation of other state institutions, and unfortunately this is not the case in the explanation of this budget. The current government, it is said, the government, which has not yet begun its mandate 100 days ago, will have much work to do to have set goals, criteria and performance indicators. Only then will it be possible to properly plan the budget and then also compare the closing account with whether the success has actually been achieved. Now we can only really say whether the budget items were realised in the estimated amounts and if they were not foreseen or if they were not realised, why not. Let me remind myself of some of these budget lines, which some Commission has also identified and has already been mentioned before me. One such finding, for example, is that funds from the European Union have not been realised and acquired at the planned levels and the Commission's finding in the report is that they will be acquired in the coming years, that is in 2005 and in 2006. But the question is, Will I really be able to accomplish what we missed now? In New Slovenia we are convinced that it is very difficult because of certain budgetary problems and the state in which the new government has taken over public finances in this country. For example, Sapard's funds have not been realised within the envisaged frameworks, and on the other hand, we are facing major structural problems in agriculture itself and I am talking about that Slovenian agriculture is currently not sufficiently restructured or at least the processing industry is not well prepared for challenges and competition in the European Union. Or if I mention one of the areas listed on page 89 in the Reporter, Investment Maintenance and Construction of Railway Infrastructure. The implementation of this final account was only 60% overall, and yesterday we were able to listen here by the new minister, that in the 15 years, including 2004, we had 710 accidents at unprotected railway crossings in the Republic of Slovenia, and out of these 710 accidents there were 135 deaths. It's a lot of economic damage. The objective, of course, of the budget, which was not realized, was also to ensure that these railway crossings were protected as soon as possible, and finally we see that the government is voicing - the former government - an excuse for the municipalities and says that the municipalities are to blame for speedily not building such a protection of these unprotected railway crossings as would be necessary. Or, if you like, the area of direct regional incentives on page 66. All of this was realized, directly regional incentives, only at 18% of the planned funds. For the Court, which experienced the earthquake again last June, for example, the implementation of the aid to the various programmes was only 35% and so on, so that I do not list these numbers because everyone could also read them in the budget. Let me get this straight. The conclusions forwarded by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances are good. This means that the commission led by the opposition and where the opposition has the majority also knows what needs to be done. Of course, the question is why those who have proposed these conclusions have not done so in the past. However, I think that this is just the way that these are good proposals and that the new government will also take this into account. Finally, let me mention just a few more guidelines for improving the budget. The planning of budgetary expenditure, as has been the case so far, and the indexation does not ensure an economic use of budgetary resources. Expenditures must have their own purpose and ensure that the objectives set out above are achieved. In this direction, let me make some proposals, guidance for improvements: clarifying the concepts of efficiency and performance, identifying the main cost carriers, accurately setting measurable targets in the budgetary memorandum, setting out the tasks of the institutions that cause costs, what is the objective of the task, the quantified result and indicators for achieving the objectives of the task, and more precise spending planning through the quantification of the objectives, as quantitative indicators that can also be used for control can be identified. The costs of work and material that are more or less fixed are predictable, the rest of the budget should be justified by the project and, as evidence of eligibility, the consequences should be quantified; the possibility of monitoring and the benefits for society - say, performance indicators. In the event of such preparation, it would be possible to objectively justify the completion of projects with less resources than envisaged and, consequently, the savings would remain with the same user and be carried over to the next period. The method of determining budgetary resources should be changed, and fixed costs are still being indexed. At the same time, it is considered that such costs are easy to predict and control. Everything else would be determined by programmes, sub-programmes and tasks, projects that should be better planned. Above all, awareness must be encouraged in people, in all users, after more cost-effective use of resources and better control. I think that the new government will work in this direction and that we will already have a final account for 2004 in such a form that there will be no need for such a debate as we can listen to in the National Assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you for the debate, Mr. Sok. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Let me start by saying that the closing account as a whole is not acceptable to me. On specific occasions, however, it might be possible to define its decision. In particular, I would rely on the Court of Auditors' audit report. And at the beginning of the tax revenues, which amounted to 7% of the budget in 2003, which means over 100 billion, it reads: "With the review of direct payments to the 2003 budget, it was not possible to fully confirm the completeness of the book's accounting of revenue, because the system of books in the 2003 main budget book was not adequate and was gradually upgraded by the Ministry of Finance in 2003." I don't think a comment is necessary and I won't lose words. In such billions, the system does not work or is not perfect! Next. By 18.8.2003, the service of the common services of the Government of Slovenia should establish a common register of property owned by the State, as provided for in Article 74 of the Real Estate Regulation. It was found that such a common record had not yet been established, saying that such a record had not yet been established for state property. But it's a lot of money. In addition to these errors, the Ministry of Finance has identified shortcomings and inconsistencies in the recording of expenditure on the basis of concluded leasing contracts. For certain budgetary users, payments of annuity under leasing contracts are recorded on current expenditure and on these accounts and for others on investment expenditure. That's what you call a mess about. Current expenditure in the income and expenditure balance is too low because there is no commission for the services of the Slovenian development company amounting to 352 million tolars. I don't think a comment is necessary here either. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia has launched a public tender for the establishment of an electronic tax system. Five tenders were opened and the tendering committee found that none of them were correct. The President of the Tax Administration, contrary to Article 76 of the Law, ordered the Commission to evaluate the two tenders and select the contractor in order to choose the preferred tenderer, although this was not in accordance with the law. This is said to be the case again with public tenders, which have already been said a lot today. And where they're flowing, there's a huge amount of taxpayers' money flowing, and things aren't arranged there. Now, whether there's real will or not there's real desire, or whether it's a will, that's after all irrelevant. The fact is, our system doesn't work, and then we're just wondering how many taxes haven't been collected. The publication of the 2000 letter, just to remind me, the publication of the list of those non-payers from 2000, was the biggest sin of the then Bajuk government when we published some classified information, who did not pay taxes. However, if it does not report thousands of tolars in the tax forecast by mistake, then of course it has great problems and also great penalties. This kind of thing is in this audit report by the Court of Auditors, and I'm not going to list it because there will be other colleagues. I would just like to mention what's going on with Triglav. Maybe someone will say it doesn't have a direct connection, and how it does. In fact, if the sale of certain shares was at a lower estimated value, it should have been higher, then the state budget here too was reduced by large billions - only by the way. Besides, I'd like to say that I'm done. At the outset, I said that I cannot support the final account and I will not support it, but the fact is that it is one of the strange criteria of this final account system, because there is a combination of the requirements that we have to make to the international financial fund and our accounting standards. The fact is that we are sending data to Brussels based on a different methodology, and those data have already been sent for 2003 in one way or another, because we had to send them, and the structural data was completely different, just as the whole of Europe is using. Such a rejection of such a closing account will not be a disaster for Slovenia, the only serious warning will be that this is not the way it is done, and the current government has recommended that, of course, it must do something differently so that things will be more transparent and fairer, efficient and effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you for the debate, Mr. Petan. Perhaps it is a good time, if not between us Dr. Bručan, the authorised representative of the government and the on-call minister, to draw the attention of the other government representatives to the right they have under Rule 66(4) of the Rules of Procedure. In view of the fact that, at any time during the debate, the government has been mentioned several times, including the current ones, advertise and debate. You have 15 minutes left, but of course you can take advantage of this right at the end of the debate. I would like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you, Chairman. All together, one nice hello. I summarise the facts, a few facts that have most negatively surprised me and stem from the 2003 audit report on the regularity of the accounts and the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Since 14 ministries, only 4 ministries have received a positive opinion on the correct implementation of the State budget, 8 ministries have received an opinion with reservations and 2 even a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. In this regard, I am also surprised by today's statement by my colleague Brickle, who is not here at the moment, which I quote: "In the summer of 2003 it will probably be in history, otherwise we will look at this history as a year in which everything that the Public Finance Act makes possible is properly used." While clearly forgetting that Article 53 of the Public Finance Act provides that a contract for the acquisition of goods, contracts, services and works may only be concluded in accordance with the procurement rules. And it was in this area that very many mistakes were found, and mistakes were common and repeated. Therefore, unjustifiablely concluded annexes to the basic contracts, the award of contracts to the same operators at all times, the failure to disclose the criteria for the evaluation and evaluation of tenders, the failure to comply even with their own low-value procurement rules. Furthermore, the irregular publication of tenders and the unjustified division of public contracts into packages. However, I find it quite inappropriate to explain one of the ministries that, due to complaints by tenderers against delays in ordering, shortcuts that are largely illegal are sought. We could read this in the Rapporteur on page 28. Apparently, it was written in a desire to confess, half of it was forgiven. I've been doing a lot of public procurement myself. I am not saying that the law is ideal, but until it is changed, we must respect it as it is. And it cannot and must not happen that the Heads of Public Procurement or the Responsible Persons arbitrarily decide whether or not they are obstructed by the law in a particular contract. Therefore, the Head of Public Procurement, the interest of the responsible person to facilitate the procedure by awarding an order, for example, to someone from a neighbouring village, because he is known as a quality supplier or contractor of the works, cannot possibly be the correct way to use the taxpayer's money. Anyone who, by applying the Public Procurement Act, is excessively tardy, I ask how many bills he acquired when he was last changing the furniture, and whether even if the furniture was offered by his colleague the messard, he turned over another phone and checked his offered price. I didn't usually get the answer. There has also been no more tariffs in relation to the acquisition of tenders in the public interest. Is it really that difficult to deal with budget money at least with the same care as your own? Apparently, that's the way it was in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Dolinar, for the debate. I invite the Member of Parliament, Mr Jerovska, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. Although it is clear from the review of this final account that the Court of Auditors was relatively merciful in its consideration and review of the budget spending this year, because it also has many times no instruments to paralyse the skills of ministries under the government of Rob, it is nevertheless clear that the management of public finances and budgets this year has been anarchic. That's why I don't think - I don't know if it's intentional or just accidental - that the government here represents the Minister of Health, that this symbolism is very good. Indeed, the treatment of public finances must be a priority for the new government. And once again, I stress that there is actually a need for this thorough treatment. Such an attitude towards public finances, as shown through this report, is lost for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And if I look at what the main indications of the Court of Auditors are; wherever I open up, the situation is this: it is found that some Ministry of Public Procurement has not chosen the most favourable bidder. That's what happens a lot. After: the calculation of the works carried out is not in accordance with the contract orders. These are excuses for what they later discovered and so on, an eternal story. Then there's an annex for 10 million, and there's always some extra work to be done, and so on. It is no wonder, therefore, that virtually very few ministries have received a positive assessment in this kind of control. If the Court of Auditors had a happier hand and, for example, looked at the contract for performing histological tests, the swabs of the cervix, and then they would see how these works were broadcast. To the amazing detriment of citizens, in this case citizens, we now have this strong problem, like a thousand women, ten thousand women do not know whether their health reports have been done correctly, I am sure they have not been done - and will rightly go back to the examinations and the waiting periods will increase and these costs will be re-accounted for - the very negative consequences. This kind of behavior is in several ministries. Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors has not deepened or found this contract on these car stickers, the making of identity cards, passports. Where they went - now we all know, unjustifiably - billions, even in this year that we are processing. In private pockets! It was entirely purposefully designed, planned, ensured that these funds came into the right hands. All this discussion of the then Prime Minister is not of interest to the former Finance Minister. He could give some firsthand answers here, not all those new people who are now in the ministries. There are people here who can give answers, but they don't care. They 'past' their own because they held their hand over the management of the budget, and today they don't care, these are unnecessary details, they're not here. It is increasingly clear that this view of the use of budgetary resources leads to the fact that some privileged moguls have come to their own luxury, as shown in yachts, private planes, helicopters, villas in the Croatian islands, through a conscious anarchy in the field of public finances, notably through privileged access to public funds. Cases like these car stickers are pretty much in this country. And no one feels responsible or obliged to explain how -- I see a colleague like former Minister Squeakshi left during my debate. Nobody feels responsible! And because of this, such a closing account cannot be confirmed because it would give comfort to such conduct. I'm sure it won't be cleared up in such a short time, but I won't confirm it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. I would like to invite Mr Anton Kokal to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Given that much has already been said about the content, I would only focus on the question of the need for a final account such as we have now. In fact, if the final account is not accepted, there are no consequences, if adopted, no consequences, no condition for any other important decisions related to the financing of the country, nor to the implementation of policies in all areas. I therefore believe that this institution needs to be radically changed, if not, in the form it has been presented to us now and as it has been dealt with in recent years, in fact makes no sense. The final account as an act should always be adopted before the budget is adopted. That's what I'm going to say, is some modest logic of my experience at the local level, because the purpose of the final account is to show what actually happened last year, not only in the purely financial field, but also how the policy that went through the budget was implemented. Such a document, in fact, to us as politicians - what we are - we are not experts here financial experts - does not allow it. Unfortunately, today we are considering the performance of the country in 2003 on the basis of a report issued by the Court of Auditors. This is a document that speaks of the professional view of implementation alone, but does not talk about how the 2003 budget has actually been successful in implementing the policy adopted by the adoption of the budget. That is why it is very difficult to define myself for this document, in fact I cannot, I can only find out from the figures that I do not know why planning was so wrong on certain items. In fact, there is one answer here that coordination in the government itself is obviously not strong enough to succeed in the preparation of the budget and, in implementing itself, to ensure meaningful use, I would say, all the instruments that are supposed to provide results. That's why you're here, like I said, two problems. The problem of strange planning, we have seen some significant deviations between realisation and the budget adopted, which is usually not justified in the final account. [[...]] [[The rest of the food riots.]] Will you go on, Paul? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u30	It's okay. [[...]] For example, only an example of contributions received from abroad for investments in 2003. We only have 61% realisation at the end of the year - there is no explanation. The point of this act is that we should get this item at the table of reasons why it came to this. The Government must prepare this urgently, otherwise it is not possible to discuss such a document. If I touch just the performance. Much has already been said about the implementation of public procurement, and I would not repeat this. However, I think that the problem is also in the law on the implementation of the budget, which needs to be properly operationalised. As I have already said, there is a need to ensure that the scope and implementation are monitored. I'm just giving an example: if we look at the area of education, it's quite clear that there was very little funding in the planned plan and then the budget hole closed at the end of the year with billions from other sources; that they caused delays in payment in investment, it was not possible to plan in 2003 for what it cost us nine years - for example, this is a typical political project that was carried out, which the 2003 budget should have been very precisely, and therefore, as mentioned earlier, there were also deficits that were actually created from the figures listed in the document here that I have before. Something has already been said about the instructions. As I said, I do not think I can support such a document as a representative of people from this point of view, because there is little explanation. The only explanation is, in fact, the Court of Auditors' report. This is an expert explanation, a political explanation of why such figures are not explained at the end of the year in view of the plan which was not explained, in general, by the end of the year. Therefore, as I said at the outset, I think that such a way of accepting such a document makes no sense; it has to be given a different place, a different weight, then it will make sense. And as long as such documents are coming to the table, which no one is actually standing and responding to, I think is a waste of time for further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mr Drago Koren has the floor. He won't. He's quitting. Mrs Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will address only one subject, it has already been exposed to an extensive budget. On finding that I think as many as ten ministries have not received a positive opinion by the Court of Auditors, because they have violated the Public Procurement Act, no public tenders have been issued, no evasive action has been taken, no criteria have been taken into account for selecting the most favourable bidder or it has even participated in the tender. Instead of repeating the invitation to tender, the choice by its own discretion, prudence and so on. I wonder if the law on public procurement is so poorly written or whether it is a rule that ministries are breaking laws because there are no sanctions. However, I would not have answered if I had not constantly listened in my environment to the fact that the law on public procurement was one and the implementation was another. Many bidders complain that they cannot come along because tenders have already been written for known suppliers or suppliers. Last month at the Slovenian Council of gardeners, I heard that domestic food producers or associations cannot come to public institutions, schools, kindergartens, barracks, even though they meet the conditions that they are competitive in price and that they have better quality, because the so-called references of monopolies are perhaps more important. These monopolies do not have anything to do with the production of vegetables or food, but they are just shoppers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanova. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, as many of you are here in the hall. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia concluded that in 2003 only four ministries acted properly and therefore received a positive opinion. This points to inadequate and inadequate public money management. The Court of Auditors reviewed certain financial transactions, not all of which, of course, would be impossible, but on the basis of the principle of sample supervision, and found a number of irregularities which suggest that the budgetary administrators did not have public money as their own money, but uneconomically, which resulted in significant damage to public property. It follows from the Court's audit estimates that the irregular expenditure of the State budget for 2003 amounts to almost 5 billion tolars. We can imagine that the actual figure is much larger given that the audit covered only a small sample of all financial transactions within the state budget. It is certainly an inadequate implementation of the 2003 budget, and the current government has thus received a poor assessment in the area of financial management. In particular, the Court of Auditors has determined by its audit supervision that the implementation of the budget is consistent with positive legal rules and, in addition to this compliance with the positive rules, has been less likely to assess the cost-effectiveness, prudence or effectiveness of those transactions which cannot even be detected as a breach of the regulation. In the case of a large number of budgetary expenditure, which was realised under the budget item and in accordance with the procedure, it could be concluded that either the goods or services delivered were too expensive or not appropriate. If the Court of Auditors or anyone else were to make such an assessment in detail, the assessment of the implementation of the budget for 2003 would be significantly worse. A few days ago, we also discussed the 2003 Public Defence Report on the Internal Policy Committee, among other things. The report of this State institution, which was well prepared, also showed some inadequate procedures of the state authorities. As you know, the public defender is a state authority protecting state property and, in accordance with its competence, leads to a state of justice and other proceedings by which the State seeks to ensure as far as possible the protection of its property. This is all fine and proper, since this preserves, gains or receives adequate compensation in a number of cases, which the Ombudsman has successfully brought to an end. However, I was more concerned about the fact that a number of cases have led to a shorter end in the country and then, following the legality of the proceedings, it has to pay high late interest and the costs of the procedure. Are all these procedures really justified and must be justified to the end? Then, by lost justice, you still pay interest and extra expenses? Is it not better that when the hope of a positive dispute is small, we do not go to justice and thus save ourselves further costs in the form of late interest and fair costs, which then often exceed the amount at issue several times? In my view, in the case of a disputed relationship with anyone, it would indicate that it would be more prudent to assess in advance what the potential for success in the dispute is expected. And if we assess that the possibilities are not great, then it is better not to go into the truth or end up with an excuse. This means either a derogation from the claim or a debt recognition, which saves us significantly more than the current value at the end of the period. However, if the conduct of judicial proceedings, even though it is a questionable claim or a questionable non-recognition of debts, I still understand this, because we leave the final decision to the court, on the other hand, I find it completely incomprehensible that the conduct of the State or individual ministries is not carried out in many cases even after the jurisdiction of the courts or other decisions. As a result, the State is subject to enforcement by the legal beneficiaries, which means additional costs in the form of further late interest and enforcement costs. This is something that the country certainly should not afford and is far from the manners of a modern European country connected to the European Union. If the state itself does not respect the legislative decisions, how can it expect its citizens to do so? And this happened in 2003 and this is also the result of the implementation of the 2003 budget. I do not think that the operation of the country or those who were then the administrators of this country was appropriate, in particular at the level expected by Slovenian citizens. This is why the 2003 accounts show a situation that cannot satisfy us, which means in some way the mistrust of the current government, while also teaching the new government how to manage public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr Martin Mikolić is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that the budget revenue in 2003 was realised at the level of index 102 and the expenditure increased accordingly, the deficit was approximately the same as the planned budget rebalancing. However, there are significant derogations within certain sectoral ministries in view of the adoption of the budget balance. I will certainly not discuss some of the unjustified transfers of funds or overexpenditures according to the plan, but why, in view of the incomprehensible and controversial decisions, the financial resources left to address the key problems of a regional and local nature have not been used or, in the final stage, transferred by the government. This refers to those ministries that had financial resources in the budget to co-finance various measures to promote economic development, agriculture, the environment, infrastructure construction and so on. In particular, if you have looked at the Ministry of Economy, under which the Agency for Regional Development was still partly part of the scope, you can see that most of these funds have remained unused. If I exclude the European funds that were largely planned in the budget from ministries, regional agencies and local communities have been able to draw on them, I cannot help but overlook the fact that the funds for direct regional incentives, namely infrastructure, have not been allocated. This is because someone invented that a local road or plumbing is not an infrastructure and that a billion remained in the budget or was moved elsewhere. The officer, Halozah, and so on, today many locals have no public water supply. Similar cases can be observed in other areas or other ministries: agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Labour. Let me also mention that they are like the last few years. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u37	Can I please have some quiet?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u38	the ministry published a large part of the public tender just before the annual leave. [[...]] That certainly had a purpose as well. I would like, my fellow Members and colleagues, to say that the assessment of the final account is not based solely on whether the budget has been implemented in accordance with the legal provisions. We have a report on this from the Court of Auditors that you can all read. The assessment also builds on whether each department has carried out its tasks under the planned budget. The fact is that some ministries have not been able to carry out these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Hello, everyone! The guidelines for the preparation of the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 specifically highlight one of the basic principles covered by the Public Finance Act, which is to be taken into account in the preparation of the State budget and can be marked briefly by a view to results. This means, inter alia, that the financial plan of the direct budgetary user must be geared towards achieving results, which must also, of course, be reflected in the explanation of the financial plan. Such an explanation of the financial plan should then be the basis for assessing the performance and allowing for an evaluation of the actual efficiency and the results actually achieved at the end of the financial year compared to the planned results and resources adopted by the budget for that year. The entities responsible for the correct implementation of the budget must therefore be well aware of the documents of long-term development planning and the legal basis for the implementation of their activities. In the first sentence of my implementation, I underlined the principle of a result-oriented approach. The assessment of the implementation of that principle was recorded by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in its report, in section 6.4. It reads: "We believe that audited budget users did not report on the implementation of selected programmes in accordance with the rules, nor did they report objectively and transparently enough. The underlying reason for this situation is in inadequately defined financial plans, which do not contain sufficiently clearly defined objectives and expected accomplishments for each programme in relation to the current baseline situation in which the budgetary user wants to influence its programme." There's something else I'd like to add. In the Republic of Slovenia, which we have named the country of software decades ago, we have been talking too long about inadequate information support for public finances and the incoherence of relevant databases. I call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I want this resolution to be resolved once and for all and very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Miro Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we are talking about the draft final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, of course we are talking about the implementation of the budget for this year. However, the management and management of the budget in the year in question was inconsistent and poor. The Court of Auditors, which carried out an audit of the correctness of the accounts and the implementation of the budget, found a rather nice type of irregularity. He's crying first. When auditing budgetary users, the sum of all irregular expenditure on salaries and other expenditure exceeded 697 million tolars. For current investment expenditure, the sum of irregularities in the audited budgetary users exceeded 1.8 billion tolars. In the case of current and investment transfers, expenditure was irregular for more than 2.3 billion tolars. In short, there is a common assessment that the irregular expenditure of the 2003 state budget was more than 4.8 billion tolars. In this regard, it is interesting that the flag of irregularity was borne by the Ministry of Defence, which in many cases acted in violation of the regulations. This was a matter of such proportions that the Ministry of Accounting also received a negative opinion from the Court of Auditors. Many and obviously conscious acts of public procurement law support a fairly free way to think about corruption. There are too many examples to believe in awkwardness or coincidences. Let's take a few examples. In 2003, the state budget for the renovation and maintenance of the three buildings in the army in Ajševica delivered a good 43 million tolars, but the Ministry divided the works into 25 units, as already discussed by colleague Pečanova, and awarded the orders as a smaller order and none thus exceeded 4 million tolars. This, of course, avoided the invitation to tender in an elegant and illegal manner. Thus, transparency and transparency were not ensured in the procurement process. In addition, the Ministry of this money did not plan in its procurement and construction plan, which is usually confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A very similar recipe was also taken by the Ministry in the repair and maintenance of facilities in the army of Franz Rozman Stanet. The State deducted almost 39 million tolars for this repair, and the deal was awarded with five low-value orders, and in all cases the same contractor was, interestingly, selected. In this case, too, the Ministry should take as a basis the estimated value of the total sum of the contract rather than the individual sets. If we move on. The Ministry provided some less than 30 million tolars for the maintenance of vehicles for a period of two years without prior publication and only through a negotiated procedure. In this way, the Ministry restricted competition. In 2003, the Defence Ministry also purchased 10 food kits in the field, the investment was worth just over 8.6 million tolars, and the Ministry gave this work to the company, which had previously drawn up a plan for the necessary equipment and thus, of course, violated that public procurement law, which provides that the contractor of the tender documentation should not be a provider at the same time. Under contracts of a confidential nature for the purchase of multimedia equipment worth 54 million tolars, the defence ministry did not report to the government and thus violated legislation, while hundreds of Slovenian entrepreneurs and craftsmen have been waiting for months and even years to receive money from the country for the work done, and the company that repaired the military vessel Ankaran 21 has significantly more happiness. The Ministry of Defence paid the spare parts for this boat before the contractor took up maintenance work and even the calculated prices for the regular service were not in accordance with the contract. The financial and other order at this Ministry in 2003 is also reflected in the fact that the external contractor who manages military housing and housing has also charged the State with repairs for dwellings that have not been owned by this Ministry for several years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thanks for the show. But to my word, I'd like to invite a magician. Tomaža Štebeta.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would perhaps like to take a closer look at just a few basic points in this debate, because most of the things have already been said. First, at least from my understanding of the matter, it seems reasonable to me that this bookkeeping act, somehow as a final account, I understand that the National Assembly would only deal with it so much as to familiarize itself with it and to accept information that it has been made aware of it. However, in order to discuss thoroughly the implementation of the budget, not only formal adequacy, but also, in particular, economic performance and, in those cases, so-called soft projects and programmes, whether structural and development objectives have been met, as already mentioned. This debate is, of course, a criticism of the functioning of the former government, as well as of the administrations of state officials and officials at all levels, and has also warned the current government to ensure that formal regularity, which is at least what we would expect, although it is said to be the essence of the rationale of development programmes and projects and the efficiency or economic use of taxpayers' money. I am afraid that this government will have a difficult time regulating all procedures and, above all, will ensure that insurance is provided objectively for all the officials. This, I'm afraid, is difficult to provide in a short time. It happens that officials who do not act transparently often adapt the criteria in such a way that they are excluded in a way that any competition cannot meet even formal, so-called criteria. For example, with contractual deadlines it is easy to exclude all those who do not work or operate for that country at that time. In fact, this does not support the competition for market liberalisation and the start-up of new legal entities, new businesses, for the country. It's a double damage. There is no real competition and economic expansion, new businesses, in fact, are simply losing the ability of the economy to go into entrepreneurship at all, due to the large scale of the economy. While the final account is not a matter of functioning of public undertakings and enterprises in the majority state ownership, in connection with the country in particular there are many things going on in these companies, which is contrary to transparency, respecting the sense required by the Public Procurement Act. It was my duty to take a little look at the matter of the Ministry of Information Society. What the Court of Auditors has found is minor and not essential at all - such violations, although violations as such should not take place. More importantly, the Ministry of Information Society, in contact with other state institutions, has unfortunately not justified the cost and has not acted as a coordinator, coordinator, integrator and regulator in the field of information and communication technologies, particularly in public administration, which I consider the whole scope of the country's operation. Since I know matters in great detail, I am very sorry that it was justified to abolish this ministry, which simply did not take advantage of the exceptional opportunity for the entire state or public administration to provide such measures in order to somehow coordinate and comprehensively build the infrastructure that would be used for the entire state administration. Separate systems were being built - for education, for science, for local administration and for the area, if you want, for state administrations. The case that took place before a time when, say, the Ministry would have done so if it had established a link between state databases and set up a real State backbone for the safe exchange and integration of these data and for the secure exchange of documents is the housing price. Housing censorship requires all tenants to collect state data and carry it to government officials who transfer this data back from paper to certain programmes and determine the price, when it is possible to determine the price from state data at the time and only to inform the beneficiary. It's kind of a banal case. I wouldn't mistake things that were also published in the media. Regrettably, these entitlements and the cost-effectiveness of the use of funds are not checked by the Court of Auditors, as they are still involved in the selection of a number of cases at the level of formal adequacy of the proceedings. They didn't even look at the timeline for a longer period of time, who were the performers for similar works. They did not even see whether the funds were properly used after they were realised and if there was any effect on these investments. Officials in the Court of Auditors also recognise this. I had them twice in my congregation. The only useful thing in such cases is to improve the operation of an office or an institution at least in a formal sense. This substantive, in-depth sense, which is the point, and this part of the verification is still waiting for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you, mag. It's bad luck. And I would like to take the floor with my colleague Tinker Bell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'll just explain my voice in the end. I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u47	I'm giving my word to a colleague of mine, Dr. Matthew Lakhovnik. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the part of my predecessors, quite a few concerns were raised about the subjective assessment of the Court of Auditors, and I might continue here to believe that the Court of Auditors should also include in its regular annual programme audits of the intended use of subsidies to recipients of companies. This applies in particular to the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family and to the Ministry of Economy. While the Ministry of Labour is only obliged to oversee dedicated spending, it is also incumbent on the Court of Auditors to provide an independent audit of the intended use. In our media, we can often hear that the funds allocated to the restructuring of businesses were not deliberately used to be taken into account by directors, the so-called crisis managers, or to a large extent spent on high wages. In several public broadcasts over the past period, we were able to hear about the unintended use of subsidies, for example in Pek. However, we have never heard anything about the revision of several billion subsidies given to this factory. Recently, we were able to hear that the director of Morningska has withdrawn subsidies into the accounts of his companies. We have also heard that the Employment Service has allocated funds to re-employment of new workers in a company that did not exist at all. Therefore, we would like to know whether the Court of Auditors will only include in this year's work programme a revision of the unintended consumption of the subsidies received by their recipients. And if I focus only on the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which was one of the four ministries with a positive opinion, and they also assessed the results of the selected programme, I can sum up the following conclusions. In 2003, this ministry had over 245 billion resources in its budget, which is over 18% of the total budget, and of which 240 spent on current and investment transfers. To this Ministry, the Court of Auditors was extremely critical of the objectives set. The goals of the ministry are self-inflicted, and they alone did not contain any clear objective of action and how these objectives will be measured. Even for those objectives that could be measured, the Ministry did not state the existing situation which should follow as a starting point. The Court of Auditors considers that the report of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not provide a clear picture of their operation and that it is not possible to ascertain from their report whether the activities of the recipients of the transfer funds have been directed towards achieving the programme objectives. The transfer expenditure identified irregularities related to inadequate and inadequate grounds for concluding contracts, subsidies or other forms of aid, which in some cases were granted contrary to the rules. In some cases, the Ministry of Transfer has wrongly paid the transferee to recipients who did not comply with the conditions set out in the invitation to tender. Now, personally, and probably also citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are rightly asked why and for what purposes almost 240 billion have been spent? And if I conclude now, I must say that I am truly concerned about the situation that has taken place in Slovenia in 2003, and I believe that even in 2004 nothing has been better. I am confident that the new government will carry out budget spending in this mandate in a targeted, transparent manner, in accordance with the law and, above all, according to European criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you, Comrade Grill. My word, Master Capudra. We continue the debate. The following report is made by Dr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. One of them's gonna have to check out or give his word. [[...]] That wasn't my voice. Now you'll hear my voice. Otherwise, Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, I didn't want to make a call, but since I was mentioned, I will just say a few words. I must say that I have not been able to follow the full debate of my distinguished colleague, Mr Štebet. On the one hand, if he talked about content and connected the Ministry of Information Society with it, I think he's fine. For if some do not know what the debate on the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia should be about, then it would be good to remind them that such a debate on the final accounts of the State budget should in fact be aimed at what has been done for a certain amount of money, which programmes have been implemented, how and why. And we could have a substantive discussion about this, but not really just focus on how bad the former government was and how good it will be now. I would just like to say that there is a magnetogram and that we will be able to use this magnetogram if I am already counting - not before 2007 or 2008, because the 2005 budget will also be Robb's budget. And this budget is also likely to be the subject and attack of your critics. Of course, I've been in these structures for a long time, and I'm responsible for all that was good, and for all that was bad. I would just say that budget planning, implementation of programmes, transparency of public finances has been a theme that can be solved by stopping horses, waiting for new ones and doing everything from the beginning, and then things are sort of ideal and flawless. Things are changing in progress, some things that we ourselves know could be better, cannot be changed overnight and at a time, but the goal was a more transparent budget each year, a more purposeful budget, less errors and, of course, better budget implementation and better control. And this, I think, has always been achieved in all these years, I will not say that the budget we are talking about now, the final account for 2003, the end of the story, is ideal for everyone, but the fact is that it was better than the previous one, and I believe it will be even better in 2004 than 2003. This is how things go, not revolutionary, as some think: now that we're new, everything will be different now, everything will be better. Public procurement is not a household business. Many mayors and others know that the positions, that things are not simple and that the law on public procurement should not be blamed for everything because it has changed and will change, because the practices are also diverse and must be judged which are useful for the use of money and which is not. It was said that the Ministry of Information Society did not take advantage of the opportunity to connect and coordinate programmes in 2003, probably sooner and later. This judgment of esteemed colleague Štebet is more the result of the belief that this ministry was not necessary at all, and it has this right than the actual result here which it has achieved. If anything, it is the horizontal functioning of this ministry in linking a whole range of other ministries to set up projects that are still under way today and are being opened and photographed by new state secretaries and ministers today. And I also hope that they will continue for some time, although I do not believe that coordination is bad, in Brussels we do not know who represents us, the most often permanent representative for electronic communication, who cannot cover everything and cannot and cannot, our influence and reputation in the European Union is falling, people are not attending meetings, people are not contributing their inputs, the directives are not being considered. Yesterday we saw that ICANN's plan was not publicly discussed anywhere in Slovenia, there is no need for the government to deal with it, not at all, it would not be decent at all, no one is dealing with it, no one is voting. By saying this, I quite believe that the things that we have done in one way can be done in another. You'll only have to prove that, your respectable colleagues and colleagues in your position. However, my message to you all is that today's session will be attended mainly by a magnetogram, but not by an unacceptable closing account. And this magnetogram, gentlemen, will be used in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you, Dr. Gantar. You have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Since Dr Gantar, a fellow Member, appointed me by name, I would like to mention only two cases, practical examples of how the Ministry of Information Society worked. Let me say first that I am personally and emotionally very attached to this and I would also very much like to support that Slovenia also has a separate Ministry of Information Society. Unfortunately, it really didn't justify that cost, if I may say so. I would mention only two cases and descend to a very specific level. One example was this, and it was positive that the ministry somehow established coordination, a group in which we coordinated on solutions, for example, for municipalities, for the level of local self-government. However, when we tried to provide municipalities with a software solution for the calculation of the share paid by parents and municipalities in kindergarten programmes, the Ministry launched a call by selecting a company for a solution that is a classic solution that already exists in several municipalities by several contractors. Instead of choosing a solution, as we discussed in this coordination group, so that parents and officials do not need to collect data, enter data and that the calculation is done automatically and "on line". But no! The Ministry has chosen one of those old, outdated solutions and raised it to the level of the solution recommended by the Ministry. So it's a step back. This is totally unacceptable, and so is the preference of one company and some solution that was not appropriate. I also discussed this with the relevant co-workers of the Ministry. The second case is entirely my own personal case. Last year, when I was writing an opinion on the fast Internet - although it was called the European Strategy for broadband, I call it the fast Internet - I also consulted the Ministry in July and August in order to get the right support from them, their position on the work material. There was no response, even though I had warned some about it personally, not only by e-mail. That would be kind of a concrete answer to what was said. Otherwise, I agree with some of Dr. Gantar's findings because he was talking about something I was talking about myself. As we are aware of the reality, this formal budget operation will need to be gradually improved. And I would not open a debate as to how complicated, bureaucratic and impossible it is to meet all the requirements contained in the budget implementation guidelines and then for its accounting and implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u53	Mr Štebe, from this place I would like to warn you that you abused the right - your performance was not a replica, but it was mainly a controversy. In addition, you have exceeded the time set for the replica. That's why I'm going to make an exception, and I'm going to put my word on the replica to my colleague Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that this discussion is perhaps the most meaningful one today, so I will say only what, especially as regards public tenders. It is clear that, personally as Minister, I have not affected the public invitation to tender, but this is a very sensitive dilemma. The dilemma is whether to accelerate different solutions across all Slovene municipalities for the same applications, which is very good for ICT industry and the software industry, is bad for municipalities or, in fact, to seek to use as many municipalities as possible the same or similar applications that are being upgraded. This is the topic, but I would say that this is a sensitive topic, which we cannot just "past" it, is surely your position the opposite of the position of that party which, say, received this call - I don't know who it is because I didn't make that decision. Another time. If you didn't get the material from the Ministry, which is unusual, because everyone is on the website, you should call me and get more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u55	Thank you. We are moving on to a continuation of the debate. My name is Mr. Cyril Testen. He's not here, so let's move on. Mr. Lucky Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u56	I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you. We're moving on. The word has magic. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Some thoughts at the conclusion of this debate, although I have no doubt that, of course, it will not be possible to continue to explain to the vote any further political points, however. About the paperwork first. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the documentation is all available, it is only necessary to open 1500 final accounts, deal with the parent working body, and then Mr Kokalj and some others will also be able to see the AD-file, the explanation of the final accounts for 2003, and all the documentation is in spite of the indignation of some members of the Commission, because they have received 2,500 pages of the compressed documents, transmitted to all members of the Commission and also to the parliamentary groups, so that the documents are available enough. Of course, some even admit that the documents are too much to explain that there are no documents or that the government has not politically explained what is going on with this final account, that is not true. Another comment, although of course it would still be worth asking the government, is about the very presence of the government. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is always possible for the government to come forward, I would like to point out to Members and Members of the ruling coalition that this government, whose coalition you are forming, has fully accepted a document called the final bill. Someone's gonna say they didn't know what they were taking. Maybe that's true, but maybe they didn't know what they were taking. However, if that is the case, then of course, I wonder what kind of government we have if the Minister of Finance proposes to the Government to accept a document called the 2003 Final Account, and then choose not to come to the 2003 Final Account debate. We also understand that the Minister of Finance, who, of course, was very critical in this National Assembly to the final accounts for 2002 and 2001, did not choose the possibility that, as Minister of Finance in December of this year, he would take the final account for 2003 and call the Court of Auditors and say, "I want you to re-examine what happened." No! No! The Minister of Finance proposed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which at its meeting on 16 December confirmed the closure of the 2003 account in the text, as drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004, on the basis of documents prepared, of course, in accordance with positive legislation. Apparently, the government has mixed up two notions. She confused the term "on-call doctor" with "on-call government." Because otherwise, I don't know why she "send it to the State" assembly to explain the final bill to the entire National Assembly of the Government on call - by the way, of course, to the specialist in emergency medicine - who here explained that he has nothing to say about the government's opinion on the final bill, because he will say it anyway. We have a Minister of Finance, we have a competent Secretary of State, we have the Directors-General of Directorates, and of course they could explain and also give some answers to the questions that you, the ruling coalition, have presented here. Yet, these people were not even allowed to attend the National Assembly! They sit in their offices, on the Jesenkov street in Ljubljana, in the former building of Bagica, the public account sector of the Ministry of Finance, and watch online what we are talking about here about what these people have been doing for months and long evenings to bring documentation to this national assembly. This, of course, reflects the new position of the government, which apparently confused the two concepts of "the doctor on duty" and "the minister on duty" and, of course, forgot that the minister responsible for this area is the minister of finance, along with the professional services. And then in the end, there's something else about this so-called "vores" and this so-called "whom chickens can be kept safe." Let me say, of course, that the same Minister of Finance, who is not here today, in 2001 as President of the Committee on Budgetary Control, addressed the final budget for the year 2000, for which he, as Prime Minister, was even the key executing officer of the budget in the middle of the year. I don't remember, I wasn't in politics at the time to be here to discuss whether it's right for the president of the budget control commission to actually treat himself as the Prime Minister who was implementing the budget in 2000. I don't remember that. I would therefore like to point out, of course, to fellow Members and Members, that we have done the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control at 20 hours of work, which I think is the right thing for the Committee on Budgetary Control to do, regardless of who runs this committee. You yourself know that, on the basis of a decision made by the College of the President of the National Assembly, it has long been decided that this Commission will have three, three forever. It is said that there is a so-called inability to make a decision, but I am pleased that, in the 20th hour of the debate, we have come up with unanimous decisions by the Committee on Budgetary Control and have adopted some recommendations, some decisions unanimously and also unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly that it adopts a budget. Why did we do that? Because of our view, of course, it is good for the Republic of Slovenia to confirm in the State Assembly how we ended the year 2003. When, perhaps, international financial experts listen to this debate, they wonder what about this Republic of Slovenia if it does not even believe its balance sheets. I agree, gentlemen in a position to be able, if you like - listen gentlemen, I will tell you to the end. I understand you, gentlemen, that you would like to include the basic development programmes in the balance sheet, as has been said; you can do so, only before the law on basic development programmes needs to be amended. However, this law cannot be retroactively amended by the Constitution, so, of course, you cannot include it in the way you would like to, but you have all this possibility and, of course, we will see whether you will propose this in the 2005 budget rebalancing as you would like. The story will probably be very simple. A number of international financial experts will look at it with amazement and then begin to question any number sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Brussels, including the number sent by the Government on what it intends to do with the deficit in 2005, 2006 and 2007. This is what your government has accepted, the government that took office on December 3rd. At that time, it is likely that a series of questions will be raised and credit ratings of the Republic of Slovenia will be put to the question. These are decisions that, of course, are not just political decisions, but decisions that may have a negative impact on Slovenia's debt costs being raised. And that's bad. And in this context, I would like those who are members of the Commission to say this to the Commission. This is the purpose of the working body, not that in the 20-hour debate it was not a mew, but then it is said: the delegation said that we would reject it. All right, this can be refused, but this is rejected at the first session of the Commission and the document is returned to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have a situation in which, I would say, the most simplified situation is the following. Outside, the sun is shining, and the government has said that outside the sun is shining, it has accepted the final bill. And the ruling coalition has decided not to shine outside the sun. And it is likely that the international auditors will find that there is simply no balance in Slovenia for 2003 and on this basis they will judge their coalition, which considers that we did not spend 1,400 billion public funds in 2003, that we did not use so many schools and that we did not have the expenditure presented in the 2003 final account. This is the situation we're in today. You will no doubt decide for yourself how you will feel about this. I propose that good work may continue to be done to support at least the decisions proposed by the Commission under Article 39 to the National Assembly. Whether or not you are going to take the final bill for 2003 is your political decision. I would be interested, however, in the opinion of the government, if there is, of course, this "on-call" government, what the government will do. Whether we will have a further discussion on the final accounts for 2003 or whether the government will start to address those it has announced, i.e. the 2005 budget rebalancing and other substantive topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you, mag. Squeakle, for an interesting discussion. The last of the MPs to be reported is colleague Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone! I must say that I myself enjoyed the presentation of Mr Squeak, who knew much about everything. But I have to find that when he had this opportunity when he was sitting in this government, whose final bill we accept, they didn't know exactly how to do certain things. The final account is a mirror of every authority, whether it is a society, an economic society or an institution. And this final account that we accept is the full mirror of the government of Rob, regardless of which government submitted it on official duty, together with the opinion of the Court of Auditors, old or new. That's a fact. I can only say this with great regret that you have invested this final account in the procedure too late. This closing account should have been submitted in mid-September of last year, but you abused the matter, violated the legal basis and submitted it after the elections. With this, you have had a significant impact both on the electoral campaign and on the results of the elections; I think they would be even worse. The Court of Auditors has found a number of negatives, numerous errors, numerous irregularities, quite similar to those identified in previous accounts: extremely large breaches of the Public Procurement Act, very large violations of wages and more and could also be listed. In short, you took a very small step in 2003 to improve or improve your business. It is also interesting that, as in previous years, neither the Court of Auditors nor the Government, which has so much to say, has identified any liability, neither objective nor subjective. No one was even politically responsible, which means that many mistakes occurred either by appointment or by order. And that, in my view, is no longer a mistake, but it is a violation that should be treated as such. Unfortunately, I must say that you had a terrible planning problem in 2003 as well. This can in fact be confirmed by all budgetary users. This budget was not made for one year either, but, as in previous years, it surprised many of the government's conclusions on the reduction of the financial year and on the limitation of the drawdown of funds from the state budget. Here you could have been very elastic: once we had income for 13 months, expenditure 8 or 9 or 11 months. In short, there's always been a hole. And that says a lot about the quality of government micro- and macro-economics, the quality of work, the planning and the implementation of the budget. In short, I think things are very problematic. It also says a lot about the relationship of the Court of Auditors to this problem, because I do not think that the Court of Auditors has responded in an appropriate manner. Because under Article 20, the Court of Auditors could also revise the budget, not only the final account, in the annual bad plans identified. This is set out in the second paragraph of Article 20 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. However, the Court of Auditors has done an extraordinary job in this area, especially in your hands. Then the exercise, the summary of reckless spending, the abuse of prescribed procedures, occurs quickly when new beneficiaries are identified, the order changes and so on. And I need to find out that this part of the budget wasn't rationally pumped as well. We can also see that an extremely large number of legislation has been adopted, which had no basis in capacity or in the capacity of public finances. None at all. We have adopted many laws, including at the initiative of your fellow Members and your government, national programmes that have recorded extremely nice numbers. This is supposed to be professional, and not only politically supported, but even a media spectacle has been made, and in practice these things have only been partially realized. For example, the cultural tolar law was implemented approximately. in 10-15%, the national sport programme 50%, the national highway construction programme in 2003 also 50%. It is interesting that the Court of Auditors in its audits has never determined to what extent such rules, laws and such cases are implemented. I think that's one of the drawbacks. But then everything got "frozen" with the ZIP. Worse! We have even adopted laws that have been used by parts of the government's apparatus even to channel resources from public and private sources to other private channels. And I think that the Court of Auditors could also have mentioned these laws - one of these was mentioned yesterday, such as the production of a variety of documents, passports, stickers and so on - and the Court of Auditors could have found a number of things here. But nothing happened. There have also been a number of cases of big pigs, but these, according to the findings, or according to the statement, were not even illegal. Article 20 of the Law on the Court of Auditors allows the Court of Auditors to review the soundness of the business or to obtain adequate and sufficient information to express an opinion on the cost-effectiveness, effectiveness or performance opinion. And in the audit of the final account, these matters were almost not identified. These are, for example, if I give Durs the purchase of equipment, very exclusive cases are, say, state-owned companies in bankruptcy and money laundering, bankruptcy managers, and finally, the latest Tims survey, where we find extremely large investments in primary school, and very poor results, and we could also list these issues. I also did not notice in this audit report that the Court of Auditors found that the State had committed itself to various leasings in the future. Here I have a report, such as the Ministry of Education, where it has been taken over for the next 15 to 17 years for 22 billion leasing obligations for construction or for various investments. If the Court of Auditors doesn't find that kind of thing, I think it's a disaster. This is the case with the budget and with the development programme plan, which has only a five-year term, I think it is also an eccentric abuse of matters. For example, the first payment in June 2007 and for 15 years. It is said that by 2022 commitments were made. 2006 to 2016 No minister has this mandate. There's something else I'd like to point out. We're talking about a balance sheet or inventory. I think there is a very poor situation in this area that the state does not have a view of the property, and for the first time in 2003, the Court of Auditors did only a preliminary audit. And here I can find that if not elsewhere, at least with the government fund, things that have been given that there are about 170 missing images that have disappeared from government buildings or have not been misled. And it's bad if there's no one in this country who's registered at least this national property. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'd only like two more sentences. [[...]] There's a lot of problems with the state and stuff. I know that all these matters will be extremely difficult to correct in the following year and also in this mandate, because some technology is set up, and I think that this government will also have great difficulties in setting up all these mechanisms. However, I hope that the trend in this financial business will also change significantly and improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you for your performance. I would like to take the floor and invite a representative of the government. The time reported is 15 minutes. I invite you to answer the questions raised or the dilemmas raised. In view of the fact that the government has not defined itself to be a dilemma, then I conclude this point or apologize, given that we still have time left, I ask which of the Members wants to discuss this agenda item within the available time or the expected time. Please keep your hands where we can make a list. Mr Plevel and I have recorded six names, and I will read them, but please, if we have let anyone else sign up: Mr Squeakl, Veršnik, Chernač, Mrs Pečanova, Mr Rezman and Mr Capuder. In addition, colleagues Starman, Tanko and Hvauc applied. That's what we made a list of. Each speaker has 3 minutes at his disposal. I give my word to my colleague Capudre.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u62	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the Government. The Court of Auditors’ report, which carried out an audit of the implementation of the 2003 budget, shows that the most irregularities occur mainly in the execution of public contracts. Mistakes were made primarily because of unconscionable and unclear legislation. I am of the opinion that if the former ruling coalition had a wish, it could have changed the legislation if it was just disturbing in this area because it had enough votes to do so, but apparently it did not want to do so. I can only ask myself, who was served by such and so regulated legislation? However, it is worrying that errors have also been caused by negligence on the part of users and budget enforcers and even by conscious violations of laws and regulations. As a result, the Court of Auditors gave only four ministries a positive opinion, and to all others with reservations and even two negative opinions. Such advertising is a poor example for taxpayers who owe their obligations to the State to pay up to the last hundred within the legal period. The revision of the work of the three ministries for the three programmes of current transfer expenditure shows that these ministries did not report on the implementation of the selected programmes in accordance with regulations and not objectively and transparently. This indicates that the programmes to be the basis for the implementation of individual budget lines have often been very superficial, without adequate measurable indicators and clearly defined objectives to evaluate the financial contribution to each programme. Consider, for example, the functioning of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which received a positive opinion for financial operations and, on the other hand, the evaluation of the performance of only one programme, which the Court of Auditors examined, could not determine whether the results had reached expectations of the quality, quantity and effectiveness of the programme. These findings only confirm the fact that the former government had no objectives in this area and that the money that was said to have been domestically had to be spent, and even for wages instead of for those who needed financial assistance. The result is young families without adequate housing, unemployed young people, declining births, all leading to the death of the Slovenian people. In Nova Slovenije we believe that the new Slovenian government will be able to create such conditions and ways of working that such major irregularities will no longer occur in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you. Next on the additional list is colleague Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u64	Thank you. I'd just like to add a few sentences about the foxes and chickens I mentioned. In particular, I would like to say that I have mentioned this after I have already given a favourable assessment of the budget monitoring report of the Commission, and I mention that I support the whole range of conclusions it has proposed. I also mentioned that I count those who formerly ruled and are now in control of themselves in good faith that some of their mistakes have been made. However, I find it difficult to agree with this, but now I repeat the words of Mr Squeak that it does not matter who runs the commission. If so, then, of course, in the Rules of Procedure of Article 33 and Article 3, it would not be accurate who and how to perform this function; if so, of course it would not be, then I think that the LDS is the one who, so minusiically calculated on hundreds, how many percent of those executive functions have been given, and if so, that would be the case, then everyone, when planning and dictating the pace of work of individual committees, would be in a privileged position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you. Next on the list is a colleague of Pecan's. Here you go. Mrs. Pecanova, are you going to talk or not? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u66	I'm sorry, but I understand someone has a replica. I would like to say four things, namely, to talk about the fact that we were praying that we should accept the final bill - this is absolutely not true. The final account is accepted or not accepted, the facts are here, the money was earned and the money was spent. The results in the form of a final account are presented to the National Assembly and thus the management of public finances in 2003, as was the case, may be the subject of a debate and a warning to the Government - whether the previous government is still the government - that it must correct these, these and these errors, violations or whatever it is that it should not repeat these mistakes in the coming financial years. In the meantime, rejecting the closing account is indeed a completely pointless act. The second thing I would like to ask is that it is frantically frantically that, at the end of the account, this is the final account of the state budget - however, which government ran the finances at the time the money was spent. This government could even take advantage of the opportunity to criticise that government from those times, how it could work so'stupidly' with public money and say very clearly and loudly that this government will not do so, but will be a model for all future governments of any kind after that. Third. The State’s assets balance sheet is not provided for in the Public Finance Act as an integral part of the budget, but is still being done. We also work in municipalities on the property balance sheet, so we also had the opportunity to see the consolidated property balance of the country of Slovenia together with the municipalities. And here, I'd just like to give you a little heads-up. Now that you have a majority in the National Assembly, the government can very quickly, following an urgent procedure, propose to amend the Public Finance Act in all the parts that you think need to be corrected, because you will have a very transparent and complete budget account for 2005, of course, because 2004 has already been made. As far as public finances are concerned, that's what I'd like to say. Public finances are called public because public money is collected and used for public affairs, not because they should be decided by citizens. And the last. I am surprised, colleagues and colleagues, but, of course, I am surprised that the President of the National Assembly did not consider it necessary to invite him to a meeting where we are discussing and talking very much about the Court of Auditors, at least one representative of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! So this is the fact that the closing account is just some mathematical operation that happened a long time ago, but only in that accounting sense. There is probably no point in debateing numbers in this sense to change them in any way. That is why I do not see any particular need for the government to discuss it in greater depth. It is up to us to discuss this and to draw attention to those things that were not being done in 2003 as we believe it would be right to do. After all, it doesn't matter whether the government or she was in a position to implement the budget at the time. This is the state budget. And in any case, in all years to come, we must have the same attitude toward him. Today, we have heard quite a few comments on how this budget is being implemented. And the red thread of all these comments, I think, was that public finances, especially public property, were not well managed, but, above all, in 2003, for which the former government was undisputedly responsible, was not the best managed. I think that the consequences will also burden the current government, and it will take some time for at least the records to be established to such an extent that those objectives that were already planned in 2003 and probably also in 2004 can be achieved. If we look at just a few of the highlights in this extensive document, we see that, for example, out of 8.6 billion planned sales of assets, the poor 2 billion were realised. In the absence of established records, for example in the real estate area, the common services service should establish a common register of properties in its own country by 18 August 2003. There's no record of this. She's not even here today! Last May, a group was formed to do this. The Ministry does not maintain a specific analytical record, so that the traceability of business events relating to long-term financial investments in shares and shares is not ensured; the provision setting this out is not adopted. These are the findings we read in this extensive material and are a fact that we cannot escape. And I think these are the findings that may be the basis for the current government's action. Not to mention that, with a considerable increase in employment in 2003, for example, at the Ministry of the Environment, Space and Energy for 143 employees, while the tasks have moved to the municipalities, there has been no investment that should have taken place. In the area of health, there is over 5 billion deaths! In the budget fund for investments in public health institutions, 5.5 billion tolars remained unspent at 31.12. I think that all of this speaks very clearly about this image for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you. I'm giving my speech to my colleague Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u70	Gentlemen, who speak of such numbers, let them learn what the budget fund is. 5.5 billion remained because it was not wanted at prices higher than those at which certain things could be purchased in a public contract. That is why we have set up the budget fund and these funds remain and if Mr Minister wants more at the end of 2004, he will spend more of this money and, of course, if he understands what this is all about, as Minister of Finance, so that the money he spends on the budget fund is really for the things he can buy the most. You all mentioned public procurement today. Ladies and gentlemen, since 1998, when we had the Public Procurement Act, in the Republic of Slovenia we have reached an average of 20% lower price in signed contracts than in tenders. This is about the same as in other European countries. This is proof that the public contracts have been intercepted. It is true, of course, that at the Ministry of Defence, they restored one barracks instead of a public contract with broken orders. And the Court of Auditors in the audit procedure correctly concluded that this was a mistake and gave a negative opinion. If you accept the proposal, the Court of Auditors will be able to become a criminal body on the basis of this decision and will also press charges against the Court of First Instance. It is also true that Minister Dimitrij Rupel, with inadequate control over the foreign office in Slovenia, gave money to foreigners without an appropriate invitation to tender and this Court of Auditors found and gave a negative opinion. Therefore, the full review concluded that an opinion should be given with reservation. But it is not what Mr Sok said that the money for Sapard was not spent. The money for Sapard was executed, calls were made. And when this happens in 2004 and all spending will be created, there will be revenue in the state budget and expenditure. It is simply that there are two principles: the use of European funds is a principle of the emergence of a business event, the state budget, and the final account is a principle of the principle of cash flow. That is why some of the differences that another Member spoke about are 22 billion short-term obligations in education. It's just a difference between registering funds. We are monitoring more than 3 million business events per year in the state budget. Every morning, the Minister for Sprint Finance may make payments for the past day, assume obligations if he knows he has. But if he thinks we don't have the right system, first he wants the system to be new. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Then he works a fog and, of course, this fog will probably result in less efficient use of public funds at the end of the process. This will also be judged on the basis of today's magnetogram in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you. My colleague Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to answer some questions here in this Chamber. In the SDS Group, we did not draw attention to the consolidated balance sheet for the country and the whole public sector, which, according to the provisions of the Public Finance Act, consists of every two years, but only the obligation to draw up an annual balance sheet for the direct and indirect budgetary users of ministries, which together with some other government consumers should consist of a final account on the accounting balance sheet of the state budget or the balance sheet of the central state. We have warned that the Court of Auditors has never before delivered an audit opinion on the balance sheet of the budget or central state. The consolidated balance sheet of the State and municipalities on 31.12.2003 is not subject to confirmation in this National Assembly. That is why the Group of Members did not discuss it today, despite the fact that the Commission received information on it. We have protested against the failure to publish the textal work in the Rapporteur, without being published. It has been published but has not been published in the Rapporteur as the budget is published. We didn't say anything else. The SDS Group will adopt the proposals of the Commission's conclusions under point 3 as they are a recommendation for future action, except of course point 7, the decision of which is not included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you. I'll take the word of my colleague Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! However, from another point of view, I would like to simply protest both at the end of the 2003 accounts and in some previous ones, especially because our public spending is too high. We simply spend more than we have for years, and spend more and eat practically into our own substance. This makes it impossible for us to manage and prevent us from creating more. I would say that in the 2003 final account we spent 2454 billion in public consumption, the revenue was 2475 billion. So instead of 41.3, as we had revenue, we spent 42.7 gross domestic product, which was 5747 billion tolars in 2003. Of course, this made the deficit 1.4%. In doing so, I must say that, last year, a similar event took place in 2002. The revenue was 2083 billion, expenditure of 2239 billion, or 156 billion, was a government deficit of 78 billion in 2003. The share, as I have already said, in the revenue of public expenditure was 42.7 in 2003. At the same time, I would say that guarantees increased from 351 billion in 2003 to 428 billion tolars or 77 billion tolars, that public debt increased to 1419 billion or 81 billion tolars. The public deficit in 1999 was 23 billion, 2000 54 billion, 2001 63 billion, 2002 156 billion in 2003 78 billion. I would like to say that, practically in this way, it is no longer going forward, no matter what kind of government it is. We will have to make a systematic reduction of public finances in gross domestic product if we want the development of our Slovenia to go in a positive direction. We're not competitive. I think that in this area, so forward, I do not agree with the budget of this protest, because we are kind of closing our eyes. Every moment and every year we increase our debts or spend across borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you, colleague Starman. Your protest will also be recorded. And I'm giving my word to my colleague Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I would once again touch on certain activities that should follow the Public Procurement Act and are not. In the previous term, we have also corrected the law on public procurement. That is said, ours has already been harmonised, and we have further aligned it with European standards, with European standards in this area. However, I wonder if the conduct of those who have implemented the Public Procurement Act is European. Either that's the case with us or that's not the case. I have a feeling that those who are in power must always make something of themselves, get something past it, something along with it, and we can figure out a lot of things. For example, we see that many payments or payments were found by the Court of Auditors, for which there was no contract to pay more than they were delivered, that payments were made of unsolicited goods, that criteria were not taken into account in public tenders, that the opinion of the State Audit Commission, which cancelled the call and had to be rescinded, etc. Not to say that many or a lot of employees were also employed without adequate work experience as prescribed, or even without adequate education. When all this Court of Auditors found out there were no findings, no sanctions against carriers or persons responsible. The measures available are, however, applicable to which director of the home of older citizens, but ministers, secretaries and other toplevels in government bodies are untouchable. I wonder what we say in these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We will decide on the closure of the account and on the proposed conclusions, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the seventh item of the agenda or at the latest at a certain time for the vote. We're breaking up with this point. I'm taking a five-minute break to join the Human Rights Ombudsman as the host of the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u78	Members of Parliament, please, if you take your seats, we will begin or continue with the agenda. We're moving to seven. It's the defense of a special report on domestic violence. In doing so, I would like to inform you that the total time of discussion is set for 3 hours and 25 minutes. The report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. I give the floor to the Ombudsman, Mr Matjaž Hanzk, to further explain the report. Please. In the meantime, I ask Members and Members to sit down and listen to the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u79	Respectable. The special report you will be discussing today is only a partial recording and a section of the Ombudsman's multiannual work on individual initiatives, cooperation with experts, state authorities and NGOs in this area. The efforts to reduce domestic violence as well as the protection of children in the Ombudsman have been made by organizing a professional council on 19 November 2003, here in the upper rooms where we have invited representatives of NGOs, centres for social work, police, courts, prosecutors, all ministries involved in the debate so far, representatives of the media and Members. Students of the first high school in Celje also took part in the debate, which also drew attention to the anniversary of the adopted Convention on the Rights of the Child a day later. The victim of domestic violence also spoke about problems and experiences with the police, the judiciary and the social work centre. The meeting was attended by 120 experts, theorists and practitioners. We have concluded it with proposals for a comprehensive solution that have involved interinstitutional cooperation, legislation, prosecution and judiciary, health care, the functioning of social work centres and NGOs. We believed that in this way we had enriched activities aimed at developing a systemic solution. Above all, we wanted to draw attention to the very unresolved problem of our society, which we have achieved with this debate. I hope that the competent bodies, especially the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will continue this work. During the regular year of the Ombudsman's 2003 report, the whole event was presented, and I specifically called on all state authorities and local community bodies to create and maintain in their work situations that do not cause, justify or maintain domestic violence. We have issued a special report in the belief that it is a credible demonstration of practical problems and possible solutions. In our work, we have consistently followed the guidelines and recommendations of the Council of Europe and the relevant provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We wanted to mobilise and link existing structures at institutional level and increase sensitivity to domestic violence, including the legislative branches of government. The current debates in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Petitions, as well as in the debate in the professional public, have received very positive assessments, in particular due to its integrity and plural treatment of the problem. Therefore, we were not surprised by the disqualifications and untruths that were publicly expressed at the press conference of one of the parliamentary groups on 10 February, in which the Member expressed an unverified statement, in view of the statements in the Chamber, as well as the insulting and malicious claim that the referenda in the Chamber were the product of three students. If we just looked at the chart, we could read the names and professional and academic titles of all authors of individual contributions, out of 23 there are 9 authors named Masters or Doctors of Science who do not deserve the nickname "quasi" of a scientist who is insulted by the Member. Practice experts, if just some without academic background, enjoy a tour and respect due to years of effort and experience in this area. The consultation was not attended by students, but by students who were involved in the problem of domestic violence, its dimensions, and the consequences of many of the energy in the series of workshops they carried out in their high school in Celje. Therefore, the Ombudsman did not have to make a beautiful transformation of contributions, but on this point, we tried to gather as many different views as possible on the problem of violence and on this basis to show possible ways towards legislative and other solutions to this social problem. In the Office of the Ombudsman, we accept the critical findings of individuals and the public as an incentive to improve our work, and we strongly reject the disqualifications and non-realitys that have been made publicly at the expense of the authors of individual contributions in our special report on domestic violence, so I will be happy if today and possibly future discussions help to find solutions that we have overlooked or given too little attention to in the special report. In doing so, I would like to point out that this is not a marginal social issue or an event, because on 16 February this year, the Ministry of the Interior provided us with data for 2002, 2003 and 2004, which shows that in crimes that can be linked to domestic violence, there is a marked trend of growth, especially in the case of crimes that threaten the safety of ugly behaviour and violence, which are the most common crimes committed among full-year family members. It is also worrying about the trend of growth in crimes against children and minors, but of course violence in the family always affects children if they are not directly victims. In 2003 and 2004, more than 5,000 crimes were committed annually in the family and the perpetrator and the victim were in partnership in a third of these cases. In 2003, 12 women were killed in this context in Slovenia, last year 11 women. The work of the Ombudsman's Office has been guided by the care of some 1,000 children who are involved in violent family relations every year, and in particular by the belief that exposure to violence is a violation of human rights that requires immediate short- and long-term solutions. The suffering and injury of the victims of domestic violence will not be less so if we compare them with all other types and emerging forms of violence. This is a specific area that needs a specific systemic solution, which is also recognised by the laws and practices of other countries. I would like to keep in mind, with the information I have mentioned, that there is a police report and a definition of the crime being suspected, usually only after the victims have long been exposed to violence. Over 5,000 crimes related to domestic violence can mean 5,000 children in families where violence reaches such an extent as to be done by the police. In 2003, 17,000 children were born in the Republic of Slovenia, or several thousand of them will grow up in an environment where violence is a way of interacting with one another is the responsibility of all of us. Yours, too. I wish you a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you, for the introductory explanations. The report was addressed by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, as the parent labour body, and drafted a draft report from the National Assembly. Please, President Mag. Majdo Pót to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Ombudsman, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 2nd meeting, on 2 February 2005, the Commission addressed a special report on domestic violence - the way to a solution transmitted by the Ombudsman to the National Assembly for a briefing on 5 July 2004. In its supplementary explanation, the Ombudsman said that the special report provided a summary of the expert consultation reports in November 2003 and was attended by practitioners from various services and NGOs and did not fully represent the Ombudsman's opinion. The Special Report is intended to encourage policy, namely the National Assembly and, above all, the Government and the competent ministries are taking seriously the issue of domestic violence and it is necessary to define the tasks of individual institutions and to ensure the simultaneous functioning of all the different professions or ministries facing this issue. The Ombudsman expects that the consideration of the special report in the National Assembly will help to address this pressing problem more quickly and more in a coordinated manner. In addition to an explanation of the opinion adopted by the Council of State at its 29th meeting on 19 January this year, the representative of the Council of State pointed out that violence in the family reflects our moral, ethical, social, economic and political conditions, as society is becoming increasingly tolerant of violence. There is a need for greater concern to be given to preventing all forms of violence, not only in the family, but also in other environments. The Council of State advocates the adoption of a system-wide law that will regulate the area of domestic violence in a comprehensive manner, in particular protecting children and identifying measures to protect their benefits and committing all authorities and institutions to cooperate. The State Council is also committed to amending the laws on domestic violence as soon as possible. The representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs considered that the special report represented only one segment of the problem of violence in the family, but that approach did not reveal the complexity of the problem of violence throughout social life and even give the impression that the family was the source and generator of violence. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not support the adoption of a specific law on the prevention of domestic violence, but proposes the adoption of a law on the prevention of violence. He informed the Commission that the adoption of such a law was already envisaged in the 2005 programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. He also stressed that the Ministry has so far contributed to addressing the problem of domestic violence by providing significant funds for safe houses, maternity homes, training of professional workers at social work centres and regional coordinators for dealing with violence. Representatives and representatives of the Attorney General's Office, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Interior and the police also presented their views on the issue of domestic violence, taking into account the specificities of the individual field of work. Everyone stressed that the system law on the prevention of domestic violence was necessary, but that it must be in line with solutions in sectoral laws. In the debate, members and members of the Commission found that a number of steps had already been taken to address shortcomings or gaps in existing legislation. However, as violence is a pressing problem both in society and in the family, public awareness and sensitivity to this problem must be increased. The media play an important role in this. In particular, it was pointed out that it was not enough to speak and write about violence, but that violence should also begin in practice. However, domestic violence is a serious social problem that requires comprehensive national resolution and also requires regulation with appropriate legislation. With regard to relevant legislation, the members and members of the Commission were not uniform - either recommending the adoption of a law on the prevention of violence or recommending the adoption of a law on the prevention of domestic violence. Following a discussion with the majority of votes, the Commission adopted the following decision: the Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities addressed the special report of the Ombudsman on Domestic Violence - the way to solutions and, on the basis of a discussion at the Commission meeting, set out the text of the proposal for a recommendation proposed to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. Since the report has been published, I am sure that you have read the text of the recommendation and will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u82	Thank you for presenting the work of the Commission on Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. I am opening the debate to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dear Guardian, a distinguished representative of the government who has not taken the floor! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the decision as it was established on the Commission. Let me explain why. First of all, I must explain the additional reasons why the Ombudsman has prepared a special report on domestic violence, beyond those he has already mentioned. We know that in the National Assembly two years ago we confirmed the Ombudsman's proposal to include a set of experts within the Ombudsman's Institute, namely experts dealing with children's rights. The violence that children experience at the earliest stage of their family life has become one of the most important occupations of these experts. The second was non-governmental organisations and individual family policy professionals, who are aware of the importance and dimension of the problem. And the third incentive was individuals who turn to the Ombudsman, some of us, too, say, victims of violence, especially women, dissatisfied with the response of institutions to violence, and also those who are aware of the wide implications for individual development and security. I point out these reasons because, in recent times, we have also heard calls from members of the National Assembly for the resignation of the Ombudsman, saying that "the Ombudsman is alleged to be in conflict because he is not only aggressive and impatient, but also because he is interested in human rights only for the electorate or for those he chooses". According to this logic, the victims of domestic violence are privileged chosen to be put under carpets, not to talk about them and seek solutions for them. Yesterday, when the leadership of the National Assembly withdrew from the hearing the Ombudsman's special report on deleted persons, it confirmed that the Ombudsman, who points out violations of the rights and denial of the rule of law, does not need us if he deals with those who are not interested in the ruling authorities. We know that the government wants to see the family as a non-conflict cell, preferably reproductions, but it's hard for her to admit the problems that families face and face. For such and other reasons, of course and in the Ombudsman's report, these reasons are given. Calls, I can say, to the Ombudsman's lynching have been peacefully and without shame from the local public for a bad month for us to confirm the European Constitution, and especially an act that highlights freedom of expression, democratic rights and the protection of human dignity. Let me draw attention to the fact that the Ombudsman's special report has been sent to the National Assembly in the summer of 2004 and that some issues have since moved and are also slowly regulated if I focus on the area of crime, on the work of the police and on the work of social work centres. And most importantly, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, at the initiative of the Ombudsman and the interaction with the other ministries, has drawn up professional starting points for a proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence. In short, the law, which was also discussed by the Commission, is already ready in the draft. We know this bill, we believe that the current ministry should only complete it, specify it and invest in it. The law is not light matter, we know this, because it faces, crosses with many, and just with an impenetrable number of other laws that touch these materials in one way or another. Let me draw attention to what this proposal is dealing with, and I hope that the Ministry will take it seriously to complete or put it into consideration. It engages in mandatory information, defines the victim's social security escort, the tasks of social work centres, the organisation and concession of maternity homes, shelters and shelters, defines NGOs, crisis centres, lists the victim's assistance plan, defines the protection of the victims' identity, mentions the management of the database, criminal measures, lists and proposes amendments to the law on offences against public order and peace. In short, the proposal for an integrated law is prepared, supported by analyses and justified by an interdisciplinary approach, which is largely due to the promotion of the Ombudsman. And in response to the government, especially the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, specifically the Director of the Family Directorate, there have been problems that we have also faced on the Commission itself. Representatives of non-governmental organizations working against domestic violence, i.e. the Association Against Violence against Women, the Association for Non-Violent Communication, the Society for Women Counsellors, the Society for SOS Phone and the Society Key, also pointed to these problems. These non-governmental organizations, which have more daily experience with violence than a closed state official has in the office, and even one that does not yet have sufficient knowledge of domestic space since it comes from the Vatican, do not agree with the Director's understanding that this talk about domestic violence is a speech against the family. They do, and we fully agree with them that each talk means helping the family. To encourage victims to remain silent about violence is extremely harmful, contrary to all knowledge of the profession, they say. And that's what they've been saying for 15 years. At the hearing of the State Council debate, the said representative of the Ministry of the Family asked why you are talking about domestic violence when the family is unable to do so, nor should he be responsible for all violence. That's right. It is difficult for cities to isolate violence on a particular cell, but at the same time the reality proves that we cannot understand the family simply as a community of reproduction. Common cohabitation, aid, love and partnership must not endanger destruction, which is undoubtedly violence. And if I finally comment on the view that the report is just a list of some reports. It is also a pouch of confession of individual victims. The Ombudsman's reports so far have always been supported by specific cases of life. But such an approach has its advantages, since a particular case can present us with hardship, problems, pain, confusion, powerlessness and everything else that we cannot perceive in an official record in such a life-form and so reprehensible form at all. After all, the individual is a symptom and must be derived, whether it is erased or beaten. And let me also comment on the government's opinion, which has adopted the report conditionally and complains that the report deals only with one segment of domestic violence rather than social violence. Of course, it is a matter of misdirection and concealment of the title of the report, reports of domestic violence are said. Also for not knowing the other guardian's reports, the past, which also extend to other social spheres. We read in the government's opinion that this report over-potensifies domestic violence, that the family is presented as the most dangerous city in society. The government doubts the problem of domestic violence. And if so, we wonder how she can cure him if she won't even face him. We will certainly support the Commission's proposal that, by means of a law, perhaps one law on the prevention of domestic violence, it will remedy what life has proved to be unresolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Dushan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ombudsman, colleague and colleague! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we join one of the fundamental findings of the Ombudsman that more than ever, politics must be encouraged, including us sitting in this House of Rights, to finally understand the seriousness of this problem, is said to be violence within a family that starts both an individual and a society. Therefore, the Group of Members or Members of the United Nations will also support the recommendation. There are many myths around the family that are more harmful than useful. Those who are convinced of the idealized family image deny the family reality at the same time all the victims in the family. This, of course, often means that if there is no problem, there is no need to help anyone. This is not the case with us in Slovenia. That's why the government's opinion is very worrisome. [[Quote]] : "It is possible to understand from the Ombudsman's report that the family is placed in a position of origin of violence or unwillingness and that the family as a generator of violence is stigmatized as a form of social life that is most dangerous for all its members." [[End of quote.]] The point is, I don't think I'm using another term that doesn't mean he doesn't see it, but he doesn't want to see the problem. The fact is, as is acknowledged by all who face this problem, that there is much more violence in the family in Slovenia than is shown by naked statistics. It is also true that violence in the family in recent years in Slovenia is also increasingly recognized by the social problem, despite such misinformation as is found in this government opinion and position. Obviously, however, we are all beginning to realize that, in order to reduce any violence in society, it is necessary to reduce domestic violence first, as it is true that the dominant culture in society is all the more so as to prevent violence, even in the family. Norms, values, and stereotypes that we cultivate both in the public and in the family circle are more conducive to and numbering strength and violence than they are to be shown in a bad light. Domestic violence is an indisputable violation of children's rights, to which state authorities are obliged and obliged to respond. Children are all too exposed to violence, their rights are all too often violated, and these childhood samples are then passed on to life. In June, women can also be violent in partner relationships and violence can also be found in homosexual relationships, and the dominant pattern of domestic violence is when the abuser is male and the victims are children and women. Approximately 85% of violent acts happen at home, behind four walls, and 88% are male abusers. Although the issue of domestic violence has not yet been adequately addressed in Slovenia, the sensitivity of society to this problem has nevertheless improved significantly over the past decade. It is decisive that the attitude toward this violence, which was sometimes considered an individual problem of the victim, has changed and is now increasingly considered a social problem. And since domestic violence in Slovenia is all a recognized problem, it also requires appropriate systemic solutions. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we advocate the view that Slovenia needs a statutory law, which will primarily bring more protection to victims of violence and, above all, the possibility of remaining in the environment that it is practiced. We do not have such a comprehensive system of family protection, so we should adopt a law on protection against domestic violence as soon as possible. And because in so many cases we want to imitate our neighbors, it would be good for us to imitate ourselves in this case, for example, in the case of the Austrians. In neighbouring Austria, a system law has been adopted years ago to solve domestic violence problems, and the law itself regulates procedures and gives powers to various authorities. That is why, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are also advocating a so-called integrated approach, the essence of which is in a comprehensive approach in shaping the competence of individual institutions to address domestic violence. To create such legislation and its enforcement that will primarily help victims and not abusers. That victims report crimes with as few reservations and fear as possible, and that the proceedings will be conducted as quickly as possible and conducted by experts. This will best ensure that the victims decide to apply and the perpetrators tremble before this discovery. In addressing these problems, we need activation at all levels, a greater role for both crisis and social centres, and in particular NGOs, which need to play an important role in this area in the future. But the law itself will not be able to solve anything unless the conditions for its implementation are met. And the state has the duty to provide the necessary resources, human, material and knowledge for all of this, and most importantly to promote public awareness of this devastating and inhuman problem. The communication of all those legal measures and activities must be clear: society and the country of violence will not tolerate it. Violence is always the responsibility of the person who carries it out. The consequences of violence must be borne by the bully and not by the victim. The word "no" for violence of all kinds means the word "yes" for quick and effective criminal proceedings. And in the end. We, too, are a large family in this National Assembly, which we have been given and destined to live in a joint "family" within the four years that this mandate lasts. But I'm not sure most of us realize that verbal violence is also one of the ugly human traits. And that this verbal violence that we have witnessed in this high house, like yesterday, is as socially harmful as any other violence in the family and elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you. The following will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Mrs Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u87	Honourable President, Ombudsman, Government Representative, Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we are concerned about violence, which is more and more in our society and not only in the family, as shown in the Ombudsman's report, where there are reports of domestic violence from a collection of reports, but at the same time does not indicate the causes that lead to violence and do not systematically address violence. The report does not refer to the definition of a family, such as single parental, double parental, extended, marital or extramarital forms. We ask him what is more dangerous than he has been told that family is the most dangerous environment for women. So we can ask ourselves why we force women into families, create them, or if we can be beaten or even killed. That's enough of the ruse. The fact is, there is violence in the family, but violence is also in the streets, among peers, over older people, in the workplace, in schools, in public institutions, in prisons, in homes. Rape by the media. No reports, no movies, no cartoons, no violence, and that's the best-selling excuse. And we don't even get moved by the forms of violence shown anymore. The forms of violence are different in society. Mental violence, humiliation, bullying, threats, intimidation, discrimination, physical violence, from beatings to murder and sexual violence. In most cases, forms of violence are interlinked. And let's not forget violence against ourselves, suicides, alcoholism, drugs, bulemia, anorexia. Victims are all ages, both sexes, different status and beliefs. However, the victims are usually weaker, weaker, younger, more women than men, economically weaker people. Violence is a reflection of political economic conditions, moral values or the exclusion of only these. In New Slovenia, we believe that violence is a reflection of the relations and times in which we live. A time when values are material goods, creating a standard and position in society. On the other hand, poverty, the struggle to survive from month to month, life without purpose and purpose. Values such as honesty, loyalty, help, respect for people, care for the sick, the old, for children, the poor, the different, something that does not concern us, but it is a matter of the past, patriarchal society, churches, institutions, not us. We evaluated the family, their trust, and their security, where parents were happy to receive their children, raise them, teach them the teachings of life, where family members felt safe and strong. We have brought women up to be equal workers, and taking care of the family is not a value, not a job. We've left education to kindergartens, schools, because if you don't go to kindergarten, you're not going to be civilized by your teacher. But when he comes home, the little one fights first, because he is full of bad will, because he feels that no one loves him, because no one holds him to himself. In schools, we teach them how much one and one is, not how a child can borrow a pencil from a neighbor if he has two, but the other doesn't. There is a lack of generosity, but who else greets the old people on the street or gives them a seat on the bus and might even list them? In our society, we must do everything we can to avoid violence. We are aware that no law will prevent violence if we do not have respect for people. Laws will limit violence. Repressive authorities will reduce violence, homes and shelters only to mitigate the consequences. In New Slovenia we do not pretend to be able to change conditions overnight by law. Violence must be seen, treated in all forms and in all places, and the causes that lead to violence must be eliminated. We will be supported by a law on protection against violence that the government is preparing and will address in an integrated manner violence in society and appropriate solutions in this area, or if the government decides on a special law on domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you. A presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is under way. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome every sincere effort to speak as widely and publicly as possible about the content and state of the Slovenian family, both in the institutional framework and in the title of the civil initiative, so that these efforts can be made to reach every citizen of the country. The most positive situation in our family is crucial for the whole development of our society, but it can be positive, but it can also be negative. It is therefore very important how we value and display the family's mission through the framework of the country's integrated family policy, through which issues and solutions that directly or indirectly affect the family must be at the forefront of our daily lives. In doing so, it is also important that the purpose and, in the first place, the mission of the family be publicly and continuously regarded as generally positive, which indirectly gives the best prevention to reduce all types of negative family life-related deviations, some of which are unfortunately growing. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, in this sense, we estimate that when reading a special report by the Ombudsman on domestic violence due to a rather simplistic and over-dimensional picture and addressing this issue, in the absence of an analytical approach, a person is reluctant to feel that the Slovenian family is only one violence and that the fathers are, in fact, just violent. Violence is unfortunately much too much in the Slovenian family, and we, as institutions and society, are fully obliged to talk to all the necessary criticality about measures that are certainly not sufficient, but in a way that does not diminish all the positives that our families undisputedly overcome and that is why the state must devote and nurture special attention and care to them. There are many factors, especially in the post-industrial society, full of globalisation effects that bring negative bullets into family life. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Ombudsman's report on domestic violence should address these issues in a much more systematic and analytical manner than a kind of summary of discussions and statements in the context of an organised consultation. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Please, can I continue? [[...]] Nevertheless, this report brings an important message. This is because, in designing, planning and managing policies to improve the situation of Slovenian families with regard to the issue of violence in it much more than ever, it is necessary to apply a genuine and much broader interdisciplinary approach to all actors who can and should also influence that the situation on this issue improves both in a curative and even more preventive sense of action. All attention must also be paid to a number of organised groups, as well as individuals who want to help with this with a single objective. This, in turn, makes people and individuals, especially children who are not strong enough, feel good about themselves as autonomous and free creatures, and it is a principle that if we cannot do what is right in the family, we must not do what is right in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u90	Thank you for your position. I invite the representative of the Slovenian National Party, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, to present the views of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry and representatives of the Office of the Ombudsman! Unfortunately, too often we are not aware of the consequences of family violence or domestic violence, as we are not aware of the prevalence of such violence, which often exceeds the rigid boundaries of the family as a cell and gets its continuation even at the level of the institutions. The report, which is being addressed today by the National Assembly, represents a set of reports, and this was also the further explanation of the Ombudsman's committee of the National Assembly which examined the report. I would therefore like to point out at the outset that the title of the item is already the subject of a special Ombudsman's report on domestic violence - the path to solutions, inadequate, because it does not reflect the Ombudsman's work and does not fully reflect the social situation or the work of the Ombudsman's Office in the field of domestic violence. Nevertheless, the report we are considering today is certainly welcome. The guidelines and the recommendation proposed by the National Assembly Commission, which has addressed the report, as has already been said, have also been positive. In view of the past ignorant policy attitude and the prevailing policy towards this issue, we rightly fear in the Slovenian National Party that this time it will remain only for words written on a piece of paper. The last term of office with the current political elite in power showed great tolerance for violence and unwillingness to approach changes in the direction of protecting the victim. Last but not least, the Ombudsman points to this when the representatives of the past government, the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs did not find it useful to participate in discussions on the amendment of existing legislation and the preparation of new legal solutions to violence. Today it is signed in 2005, and it is sad that the conclusions of the consultation organised in November 2003 are only being discussed today. And it is sad that it is only today that you all stress that it has not been done enough that it is now really necessary to approach family politics. I'll remind you later, when and how. But as for the marriage, it's just one segment of the problem, and it's not just my assessment. V.D. The Director-General of the Directorate-General of the Office for the Family of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and a long-standing professional member of the Ministry clearly pointed out the shortcomings of the report and a number of misinterpreted explanations. The government's opinion is similar. It points to violence as a comprehensive social problem that cannot be narrowly limited to the family. At the same time, the position of the former Minister of State, who says it means talking about violence in the family to speak against it, is of concern. The family, in accordance with the legislation, does enjoy special protection of the state, but the protection of the state must not be a blinding act. What I would particularly like to warn and highlight in this work is lacking in the area of sexual violence. There is a lack of specific children's area, ranging from violence to other abuses. We don't know anything about statistics, nothing about the work itself, nothing about the increase in violence, and in what segments, and I could still list it. The fact is that a multi-disciplinary approach is needed, as we have already heard at national level today, which includes several ministries or their services, and the fact is that it is also necessary to start in one segment and then adjust legislation accordingly in other areas. The proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence, I believe it is one of the solutions, but with the appropriate regulation of other sectoral legislation we will not achieve the desired effects. The petition committee correctly found that the most vulnerable group in the family was represented by children. Why so few words in this report about child abuse? Days ago, at the National Children's Parliament in the National Assembly, we heard a criticism or a suggestion that consideration should be given to the Ombudsman, not within the competence of the current office, which has done little for children. Of course, parents who are most dissatisfied can say this. But in this part, because the Ombudsman has disturbed the criticism of the Member's bad work, I will repeat and reinforce it with facts. But I have gathered, and I estimate that the right path is, unlike a guardian who obviously allows himself and prescribes his own rules. Further explanation for the report's proposal does not include politicisation. It would probably be easier to understand a guardian standing behind his report. Maintenance is certainly one of the areas that could be classified as domestic violence. It's a different kind of abuse. After all, violence is also an act that does not conform to the essential real characteristics or legality of something. In this case, Article 54 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which clearly provides that parents are also obliged to maintain a child or Article 56 of the Constitution which speaks of special protection and care for the child. When maintenance is unpaid, it is a violation of the constitutional principle and thus human rights. What did the State or the Ombudsman do in the area of maintenance? In Slovenia, according to the company or data of Ostrzek, about 15,000 children are without maintenance, with the fact that decisions cannot be implemented. This is a practice that is not only a few years old in Slovenia, but written for a decade or more. According to the data of the company in Slovenia today, about 5 billion tons of unrecovered livelihoods are expected, and Mr Hanžek simply did not detect this problem despite numerous complaints and warnings from the affected. The State did not set up enforcement bodies for the recovery of maintenance and should also do so under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Although a maintenance fund was established under the operation or assets of the guarantee fund, we believe that the maintenance fund is only effective in 2.3% in the event of recovery. A multidisciplinary approach, criticism also goes to the work of courts and long-term ineffective procedures. It is true that last year, in the context of the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, a provision was adopted which requires the court to take into account the opinion of the child in the event of a divorce between parents, but, as the lady from that society had provided, this was often determined to be violated. Judges stand even above the legislator, and violations go in the sense that judges in divorce proceedings in determining guardianship or contacts do not gain the opinion of the child, but rely on, hand to heart, sometimes very controversial opinions of social work centres. Not everything wasn't bad, but it wasn't enough because there was no real political will. A positive change, a commendable project, is certainly a white ring, the two municipalities have joined and I must say that I am particularly pleased that the project was also received by the municipality of Trbovlje, although official data on violence are sceptical and although in the wider area of Zasavje there is no sexual violence, for example - this is a data that should be a signal to the government, this is a situation: unfair, unrealistic, as a result of centralism introduced and introduced by the past government, including in the area of the judiciary or the courts. I'm going to mention sexual violence, the cruelest violence that's going on behind the walls. And let me focus on this kind of violence against children, which is not very noticeable in the Special Guardian's report. Or should I use stronger expressions that cause more intimidation: rape, paedophilia, etc.? Official data are eloquent: in 1999 there were 285, 305 complaints received; in 1995 there were 12 registered cases of sexual assault against a child, in 2001 49. From official police statistics in 2004, it is statistics on crimes in the first years of 2000 to 2004. The rise in various forms of violence has been reflected in the increase in the number of crimes dealt with in the light of physical injury and sexual assault on a person under 15 years of age. In this case, it's 16%. There has been an increase in the number of all serious forms of crime for crimes of murder, unfortunately, following the crimes of rape. The practice of the courts showed that the penalties imposed were at the lower limit of the persons at risk, i.e. no more than 3 to 5 years imprisonment, the maximum penalty at risk, between 10 and 15 years, was imposed during this period. When we read the newspapers, we are truly terrified, the Senate, due to a sexual assault on only a 4-year-old daughter, sentenced to 1 year in prison, for two consecutive sexual assaults on a child under 15 years of age, a single sentence of 2 years in prison. Practice has shown that courts are ineffective, tolerant of violence, even the worst forms of violence. After all, not surprisingly, the representative of the state prosecutors, at the time it was Mrs Zdenka Cerar, who defended the courts by stating that crimes against sexual inviolability were difficult to prove and that judges often impose low sentences. It is no wonder, then, that the victims do not resort to charges when the prosecution treats such an excuse. And where is the concern for an individual? The victim is the one who remains the victim of the social or political system. 14 years of ignoring the political authorities! In 2001, the Slovenian National Party introduced a new Penal Code which would raise the lower limit for such violence. In this explanation, the representative of the government of Rope, I quote: "The government does not support the novel, because raising penalties would undermine the relationship in the system of threatened sentences." The system, so yes, the individual obviously doesn't. I would like to point out that these kinds of abuses are the worst crimes. In addition to the physical, the victim also carries mental pain and long-term, often incurable consequences. Well, we are convinced that the amendment of the penal code, as proposed, would reduce such offences, mainly from two headings: a frightening effect and longer isolation of perpetrators of such crimes. According to official data, there is an increasing number of perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability among returnees. On 22.7. 2004, the delegation of the Committee for the Internal Policy of the National Assembly visited the prison in Dob. Facts. The visit rejected a government claim that the perpetrators of sexual harassment were less than in the past. The number of such violations is increasing. There are 19% of all convicts in the Age. The perpetrators of these acts are becoming increasingly violent, arrogant, and obscene. In our opinion, due mainly to the low penalties. Despite a clear picture in the company, the data I presented were taken from official statistics, after the first draft of the Law, in October 2001 - no, the last hearing was not until after a year in the National Assembly, 30.8.2002, and the second hearing at the National Assembly was only on 18.12.2002. The mother's working body issued a negative conclusion. The main advocate was the representative of the Liberal Democracy or the chairman of this committee. At the meeting, LDS, the United List and DeSUS opposed the law. However, let me remind you that it was not a decision on articles of law or on content, but on whether matter is suitable for further consideration. With all the beautiful words we have heard in the National Assembly today, however, one asks: Who in our society rightly deserves priority in saving or protecting? A child who has been abused cannot be compared to self-sufficient ones. This simply, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not moral. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u92	Thanks for the introduction. I give the floor to the representative of the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that we from the DeSUS Group will support the recommendation that has been written and proposed to this assembly and that we will add a few more proposals that we think we need. Otherwise, it is clear why, because violence has become a universal reality because it spreads through our nation and body like metastases, because it is actually too little done to turn away from this violence. And we think it's too ambitious if we're just trying to be free from violence, from physical coercion, from mental coercion, from sex, from economics and so on, and we think we need to do something to make more attention to "freedom for". So that people in the family will feel needed to be there, to be respected there, and that there are other values that we often place at our fingertips. Because violence has become a cultural pattern, we need to fight this very strongly. In fact, the pattern of conflict resolution is in fact only the most primitive form of communication and enforcement of their interests and this primitiveism should be shaken as far as possible and as quickly as possible. The report dealt with several bodies. It was discussed by the Commission and adopted a very general recommendation, which was addressed by the State Council, which was trying to clarify something. I am very sorry that both working bodies in the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the Committee on Health have not considered this report as interested working bodies, because it could contribute to solving this problem. While it has already been pointed out today that there has been insufficient interest in dealing with this issue, let me just stress this and mention it, not directly today, but the sub-chapter referred to as chronology in the Ombudsman's report. This chronology illustrates what we should do if we want to define what national ignorance and national arrogance are. Read this again, and you will see how our country, the individual parts of this country, were not prepared not to face it at all. I hope this arrogant relationship is over. Let us remember that the government programme framework has recently been presented and that one of the most exposed objectives has in fact been to build an appropriate family policy, which, of course, will also have to deal with violence. I think it is possible, or even right, that legislation is regulated in a special way, for the Constitution in Article 56, and also in Article 53, points out that these categories must be given special attention and special protection: women, children, families, persons with disabilities and similar categories. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have a coalition treaty in which you express it explicitly states that we will be committed to a comprehensive family policy as soon as possible, to adopt such a family policy, to advocate that we have a guardian and an office for children's rights; that we will also be committed to preparing a programme for children and young people's friendly environment. I hope that the current government and current ministries, the ones most connected with this, will not have as much distance to this problem as was typical of the past and therefore I would like to make a few more proposals. With the proposal to adopt a comprehensive, integrated family policy as soon as possible, we are proposing this programme for a child-friendly environment; we are proposing to establish a special, either governmental or parliamentary body dealing with this problem; we are proposing to build a network of institutions dealing with this area; we are proposing that all necessary arrangements be made for the establishment of a shelter house and for appropriate regulation and that the Ombudsman and the Children's Rights Office be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you. A presentation by the SDS Group of Members, Ms Eva Irgl, will follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I welcome the representative of the government, as well as the Ombudsman, and the Members and Members of Parliament welcome. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the conclusions of the recommendations adopted by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. However, we must stress the following. The special report of the Ombudsman on domestic violence or the path to solutions does not follow the meaning of the report, as defined by the law on the Ombudsman and the rules of procedure of the Ombudsman. For he did not fully analyze or evaluate the Ombudsman’s contributions, nor did he take his stand with them. The report is designed as a brochure, consisting of reports, contributions to seminars and surveys of experts who are more or less recognised in their work area. While contributions in the report are welcome as a starting point for dealing with domestic violence, they cannot represent a review or work of the Ombudsman. Nevertheless, the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation welcomes the Ombudsman's decision to encourage a determined resolution of domestic violence. We are aware of the importance of the problem and believe that solutions need to be found in this area as soon as possible, leading to positive effects. First of all, consideration should be given to the adoption of a national programme to determine how to address this problem and, at the same time, to provide an action plan on how to deal with this problem should actually be carried out. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that a decision must be taken on this issue systematically. We must be aware that in solving this problem we must not assume that the family is the focus of violence. The family must be considered as a fundamental value. Domestic violence is a result of the condition of the spirit throughout society. It is therefore essential to raise awareness of zero tolerance for violence in all segments of society and thus in the family. Through all the contributions in the Ombudsman's report, the following appears as a red thread. The lack of interdepartmental cooperation and coordination, we are talking about social services, health care, criminal police, prosecutors, judges, lawyers, NGOs and, last but not least, education providers. Legal experts also consider that the legal regime is inadequate. It would therefore be useful to consider changing the placement of crimes relating to domestic violence from the chapter of crimes against public order and peace to the chapter of crimes against the marriage, family and youth. We also see through all the contributions that the problem is behind closed doors, which are often kept secret to the public, especially because we still believe that it is a relationship that concerns the family itself, not society as a whole. In the area of regulatory regulation, it is necessary to undertake in general, as stated in the conclusion of the report, all ministries and other national authorities and local community bodies, to ensure that they are committed to ensuring, in their area of policy-making, situations that will not cause, justify or maintain domestic violence. And another thing that is certainly not irrelevant has been mentioned here many times. The total ignorance of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs of the previous government, which has not responded to the Ombudsman's practical initiative, was very worrying. It is a pity that the Ombudsman did not make any more use of his powers in this regard, since in his report, he even mentioned the extreme arrogance of the Ministry, although he later tried to reduce the weight of these burdensome words at a petition committee meeting and for human rights and equal opportunities. That is why we are rightly asked whether he did so because of his personal and unilateral beliefs. Last but not least, in one of Sunday’s television shows at the end of 2003, the Ombudsman associated Slovenia with the situation in Nazi Germany before the war. By doing so, fellow Members and Members, it certainly casts a bad light on its work and institution as such. Otherwise, like the warden at the committee meeting, he himself said that a dead horse or a dog is not worth kicking. I guess it'll hold. Therefore, the current Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is aware of the urgency of the issue and the necessity of inter-departmental cooperation. In the future, the situation will certainly be different, as demonstrated by the presence and response of the representative of the Ministry concerned. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation supports the decision by recommending that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be identified until the conclusions of the special report are drawn up and that a proposal for a law should be drawn up as soon as possible and a cross-cutting programme for the resolution of the problems in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u96	Thank you for giving the views of the SDS Group of Members. We have also concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. On the basis of the applications, she has a first word to discuss with her colleague, Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable Ombudsman, representative of the government, colleague and colleague! The family should be the safest place for all its members. Unfortunately, statistics, police reports, newspaper chronicles, and daily practice do not confirm this. Because of violence, the family is, in particular, the most dangerous environment for children and women. This is a sad truth to which we must not close our eyes and accuse the Ombudsman of human rights, who shows us this tragic picture and shows us that such a situation is fabricated in order to blacken and overwhelm the family and rob her of some kind of avreola or mystification of value. Family can do no more harm than hypocrisy, false exaggeration, and concealing problems. Therefore, we hope that the government's opinion, which says on the Ombudsman's report, is, I quote, "This is completely unacceptable and even harmful for the further development of the family", I hope only a press error. I welcome the Ombudsman's efforts to commit domestic violence in such a way. We could read in the report how he called ministers, meetings, judges, prosecutors, encouraged them to coordinate, further education, think about what to change in the legislation, organisation and provision of additional funds, and finally organise or prepare expert advice. This is commendable, not building up and criticising more than half of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this report. Perhaps something other than a coalition, which prominent members of public places without real accusations and regrets are physically charged with their children, is not even to be expected. The Special Report also makes it clear that domestic violence is not being dealt with properly. The testimony of the victims or, for example, the convictions and allegations of the victims' relatives at a recent tragic event in Celje, about one of the most brutal murders in Slovenian history, testify to the need to make a difference. It is therefore sad, and in some ways even cynical and humiliating, that the government’s opinion is as it is. It has almost no plans, measures, changes, proposals. It is aware that the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should play a coordinating and coordinating role between individual institutions. And it is certainly not true that the report is bad. On the contrary! Anyone who reads it with a desire for change can find a number of proposals and initiatives in it, and this is particularly addressed in the reports of representatives of the Office for Human Rights and the Office for Equal Opportunities. It is clear from the individual reports that institutions, police, social work centres, health homes, schools and courts feel a lack of professional competence, appropriate legal solutions. And it is precisely in the report that a number of laws should be supplemented, as well as organisational and human resources deficits. And it is here that the state, and on its behalf of the government, should assume its tasks and at the same time be responsible for improving the situation. The government has also not defined the initiative as to whether it is necessary to join the national anti-violence programme in the family. In short, the problem is whether we like it or not. Traditions and disasters are happening behind the walls of houses and apartments. We are all responsible to do everything we can to make them as few as possible. That is why we need to talk about domestic violence and to demand an active and constructive approach from those responsible to reduce it. Or, as they say in the conclusion of their report on violence in the family of students at the Celje High School: "The state should become an example of knowing exactly what is wrong, and it is appropriate to do so." They said it simply, plainly and loudly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u98	Thank you. My colleague, Bojan Kontic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Respectable Ombudsman, colleague and colleague! It is essential that we speak publicly about violence as often as possible. Especially about the so - called covert violence that takes place behind the walls of residential homes or dwellings, when the actual family and home are not a safe haven. I do not agree with the idea that domestic violence is a matter of family and that they should resolve their own differences. Of course, the most we can do is eliminate the causes of violence. Most often, alcohol is the cause of the grave, and many of the reasons are the disagreements that arise as a result of living conditions, unemployment, lack of means of survival, and finally the sense of irresistance from the problems that have arisen. All of this, of course, does not excuse the violence that will continue where it occurred, even if it is usually by periods of kindness and apology, which will be followed again and again by violence, usually by larger proportions. This is not just physical violence, which is somehow the easiest to detect. It's often psychological and verbal violence. It raises the question of how victims, as well as those who do not, follow or monitor this without action, are encouraged to react to the procedures that ultimately lead to a solution: physical separation and, particularly, economic independence. This addiction is often the reason why the victim of violence stays in the family because he does not see another option, and he does not see another way out. Above all, it is important that we regulate the system for regulating or preventing violence by protecting a weaker article. In Velenje, we set up a council to improve the security of citizens. And when we analyzed why individuals who notice individual derogations do not inform the police about this, do not initiate appropriate procedures, we found that the reason is that people are not prepared to talk about them when they detect problems, in a way that they have to say everything about themselves first and then move on to the thing that actually triggered the procedure. At the same time, we note that people are not prepared to participate in these proceedings because they want to avoid any subsequent proceedings. To avoid all procedures that follow, they prefer to close their eyes and ears and ignore and question an event that they would not otherwise have. I agree with the conclusion that all institutions that can and must participate must be linked to the elimination of domestic violence. Possible victims must be informed of the means and means of dealing with their distress. Coming to the social work centre is not easy, nor is it easy to report to the police. Also, recognition in health institutions that they are victims of violence is often reclassified as an accident, there are too many falls and other accidents with a desire not to admit the actual cause of the injuries, and in fact, you find out when they say, "Our house, our family was considered exemplary until it became known." The Special Report of the Ombudsman therefore encouraged debate among those who consider it unilateral. They also recognize that domestic violence is present; therefore the purpose is achieved, and certainly the Ombudsman will not regulate and eliminate violence, but it is right to warn him. Finally: at all points of the agenda, we listen to what the government has not done or has not done, by the current government coalition. It will be, dear fellows and colleagues, that we need to move slowly beyond it. What is changing and in four years, what has changed will be the real question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you. My word is Dr. Mark Pavli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Allow me, Mr ombudsman, to warmly welcome you and also take this opportunity to publicly express my recognition and admiration both for your report on domestic violence, about this, we can say, one of the plagues of the 21st century, as for all of your work so far. Your work so far is - despite the fact that some of you want to be erased - in my opinion it has already left an indelible mark in our lives. With regard to the report, however, allow some good suggestions for further work. In fact, somehow I feel that there is a lack of attention to child sexual abuse. There has been something about it today, but even if we mention it a hundred times, a thousand times, a million times, there is still little attention to it. If I may quote, on page 90, under point 10.6, the first sentence relating to the form of child abuse. Thus it is written: "American authors estimate based on extensive statistical analysis that doctors among children suffering about 70% of the body abuse, 25% of the sexual abuse, and 5% of the growth rate due to malnutrition." This is a force of concern to me, so I do not understand why on page 63, for example, this form of cruel violence is not mentioned; the speed is a printing scrapper. And also on page 89, I am disturbed by the lack of definition of violence against children, which is how it says: "Child violence is defined as an injury deliberately caused to a child by a third person." I am convinced that a significantly better definition is in article 3 of the draft law, which has already been drafted by the word, which states: "Violence in the family is any use of physical, sexual or psychological violence against a family member, regardless of his age." It is true that, especially through the meadow, in North America, we often deal with the extreme approach to such abuses, so some say that a child can sue you if you just look at him side-by-side, but of course this is not the answer that we should not or should pay more attention to this problem. This is a problem that, of course, can leave an indelible consequence on a young person. I found out that in Slovenia the case is the youngest sexually abused person, you won't believe it for nine months. It's been nine months, old girl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr Anton Kokalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you very much. In my name too, a nice greeting to all representatives from the Office of the Ombudsman. Initially, I would like to make only one request up to, I will say, colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly who have the experience of family differently than some do, but some of us have obviously a very positive experience in the family but some of us do not, and I would ask that we at least here verbally refrain from aggression and incitement in the case of some of our Members who are not here at all. Let's go to the report. If I were to summarize one sentence in the introduction that the Ombudsman wrote to this report on the way. One of the areas related to children with whom new professionals began to engage more intensively was the violence experienced by children in their earliest youth, domestic violence. When I started reading this sentence, I expected that the report would cover everything that a child could get from birth there, and I'll say, until the end of primary school. And I expected that the state institution would first sweep before its threshold and will undertake a serious study of how our children are facing violence in kindergarten and elementary school. This is simply not the case in the report; I guess I don't know if it's important, but I think it is. For I am the father of four children, and all went to kindergarten and all went to school. Sometimes they come home a little differently than they do from home, but I would not comment on it now in this sense, but I think that the report, which came up in fact as a summary of some of the contributions of the participants in the professional council organised by the Ombudsman on 19 November 2004, is more a compilation of some lectures, some of the thoughts of professional colleagues, especially experts dealing mainly with the consequences of domestic violence. Among the experts was a minority of representatives of institutions involved in preventive activities and in creating an environment to address the causes of all kinds of violence. In this respect, the expert advice on which the report was drawn up was strongly supported, according to my assessment, by contributions that would have responded to the second part of the title of the Puti report until the solution. Surely there is no reason for such organisations not to exist, I know many, but they have not been invited to this consultation. Nevertheless, the report points to a strong need to strengthen all positive measures to reduce the potential for violence in general, of course in this case it focuses on the family. The following challenges have been identified in this regard for all of us: lack of systematic primary prevention - this seems to me to be a very important conclusion; lack of knowledge and supervision in the field of domestic violence in institutions such as the police, the prosecutor's office and social work centres; lack of funding for work in NGOs, which again seems to me to be a very important conclusion; poor willingness of parents to set limits on children to use any of the violent practices - it is said, if I understand this matter, that parents should not punish their children in a violent way, although this definition may also be highly controversial. When you set a limit, it's always kind of painful. Whether it is violent or not, of course, it is necessary to define a little more precisely, but I agree that we need strong, strong assistance in the current situation here. Inadequate media monitoring of violent content and reduction of stress that causes domestic violence. It follows from the above that the report on family violence is extremely flawed, particularly in the second part, as I have already mentioned, to show solutions in a preventive sense. Therefore, in this context, I agree with the Government, which estimates that the report covers only one segment of the occurrence of violence, so that the family can really be placed in a position of origin of violence, which I hope was not intended and neither is the report. In view of the fact that this report exposed the family as the source of the negative phenomenon, I suggest that the Ombudsman organize a family consultation on the subject as a remedy for negative phenomena in society. This means that we would get a balanced picture of the issue of violence against children, or by eliminating the causes of this violence. In this way, I think that this report would somehow be complemented by the extent to which it could also be dealt with in other areas, and only then do I think that it would be mature for this matter to be passed on to some legislative matter, because at this point I do not actually think it covered the whole as mentioned in the title, but in particular it did not cover the causes, but mainly the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you. And I would like to take the floor with my colleague Majdo Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the previous interlocutor that if such a report were to deal with more than one working body, it would make sense not only to the Commission; especially the internal ministry, the judiciary and the Ministry of Labour, the family. Not only because it is a multi-layered question and a multi-layer search for solutions, but also because it could also get multiple-layer answers. I would be interested at this point in time to know for sure what is the position of the Ministry, which is supposed to be the institution of the law or to represent the government in the resolution of this problem, which the Ombudsman has highlighted in particular - regardless of the fact that I am here in the National Assembly, this question is not liked. What is the position, or in view of this ambiguity and misinterpretation of the opinion given in the Ombudsman's report, which he considers to be only partial or that it is, as it says, a conditional report: or I think, to support solutions as they have been so far; it is said, gradually, according to individual articles, by opening individual laws, as we did last year, when we changed a certain article in the penal code that touched on the persecution of those parents who do not pay maintenance for their children, and we know that we have made these penalties very harsh, and we also know that the courts are somehow still not properly implemented and that they do not use the options they have. It is said that one who does not pay what he should, and has money for what he has, goes to jail. But I don't know if there's any more. I don't think there's any jail time like this. In short, whether the Ministry will propose a family solution after partial segments, it is said that it will deal with those issues affecting individual problems, and, for example, it will touch on the possibility in the health field of how to refer to treatment, how to extend detention when it comes to threats, how to extend the possibility of belonging to or introducing individual family courts, specialised family courts, how to better organise the police in certain cases, and so on. In short, whether it will support the law against the integrated resolution of domestic violence or, as it states, violence in society as a whole. This is said to be whether cartoons are controversial or not, whether they are censored or not, or whether the media content is those who travel to violence or not, and so on, that each segment of our society. And in this case, of course, I am interested in the answer, in this case - I obviously cannot get it today, and I expect to get it at one or the other committee or committee of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u106	Allow me a brief explanation. Today, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry responsible, Mr Jožef Tivadar, v.d. is present. Director-General of the Family Directorate. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 35 cannot participate in the debate. This same matter was also questioned in the hearing of the Rules of Procedure Commission. The proposal, which went to the Rules of Procedure Commission, went in the direction that more candidates could be involved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. from different levels of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting of the National Assembly itself. As you probably know, the Rules of Procedure Commission did not need a two-thirds majority, so this amendment was not enforced. However, if interest or none of the Members and Members present opposes the decision to give the floor, in spite of the Rules of Procedure, to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular because we have very important material before us, I will also allow, exceptionally this time, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, if there is no opposition by any Member or Member. And now we're continuing our session. The following is said by colleague Mikhael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable Ombudsman, distinguished representative of the Ministry, respected colleague and colleague! I must say that I have read exactly the Ombudsman's report on domestic violence. And I must say that I am not most satisfied with the report or that this report seems to me to be lacking. Certainly, in my report, I sought the Ombudsman's personal view of this problem for nothing, but from the Ombudsman's institution, however, a proposal for a systematic approach and a proposal for a systemic solution in the fight against domestic violence and, of course, violence as such. The report covers only domestic violence and, of course, avoids the treatment and increase of violence in schools, institutions, workplaces where women are afraid of losing their jobs, they simply do not hope to have children. Let's not talk about street violence or anything. There is also no speech in the report, as has been said today, about the impact of single mothers who cannot recover legal livelihoods for their children or on their way to court. I think it's also one of the great domestic violence. Therefore, such an approach, based on the report under consideration, does not in any way give a comprehensive view of the actual problem of domestic and social violence. I fully agree with the government's conclusion that when you read this report you really get the feeling that family is the most dangerous city, especially for women and children. However, the values of families representing the base cell of the company are further lost by this report. There is no way that we should keep our eyes closed to the growing violence in the family, but the reasons, of course, must be sought more widely. We must be aware that recent social changes have taken place in our society. I am thinking first and foremost of the crisis of values and, last but not least, of globalisation, which brings about material and social insecurity, which brings about unemployment, which, of course, affects everything and also strongly promotes violence in society. I think that by establishing a world for violence, where experts from different fields and institutions are involved, the right way to approach the fight against violence is. Also, a network of mothers' homes and safe houses, which are quite something after Slovenia, I believe that they would still be needed, offer a great deal of help to mothers and children in case of domestic violence. Let me say that the municipalities in Gorenjska have offered, without delay, assistance for the operation of a safe house in Gorenjska. However, the law on protection against violence, which the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is preparing on the basis of information on the basis of professional positions, will certainly help to limit domestic violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you. I call on my colleague, Boštjan Zagorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I'll try to stick to the points myself, or very narrowly stick to the agenda. I'm sorry. This is a special report by the Ombudsman on domestic violence - The way to a solution. I will therefore comment only on the introduction, for this is the only effort the guardian has put into this report. In the introduction to the Guardians, however, let me be excused for the individual's rights, in my opinion, he wrote that two years ago the National Assembly confirmed the desire to employ new people who would deal with domestic violence and children's rights in the Ombudsman's office. Somewhere in the midst of this, such or other grand intro, we can read that this area is very poorly regulated, that the legal basis is not that the laws are lax and that they are primarily protecting the violent and not the victim. And at the end of this brief introduction, we can see the conclusion that our guardian or policy calls for us to finally come to realize the seriousness of the problem of domestic violence. I am confident, or I believe, as well as probably my fellow Members in the parliamentary group, that this introduction and such findings were written in some strange way so that such findings could have been made by the Ombudsman. I wonder if the policy was not aware two years ago when the National Assembly approved additional assistance to the Ombudsman in solving this problem, a real problem in this area. Wasn't it the Slovenian National Party that introduced amendments to the Criminal Code into the National Assembly, somehow trying to solve problems in the area of domestic violence? He's probably the guardian when he talked about politics and let politics begin to realize that he's thinking about some of his client sympathizers or we know that he's leaning more and more towards one side. Then I advise him not to refer this report to the National Assembly - or not to the report, but to the introduction - but to address it and to pre-think it in a narrow circle, perhaps even at the opening of some voluntary posts. I must say that I was expecting a report that would give us a real state of violence in the family in the Republic of Slovenia, not a set of reports made by other experts. I expected findings, statistics, some directions on how much violence in the family could be reduced, how much of this is actually in Slovenia, not the collected reports, probably from websites, because it's the easiest thing to do, and then we're doing it in the National Assembly. Finally, we can also find out what many of the predecessors have found before me and ask what the former Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Dimovski, has done in this area, which has been burning for some time, and I believe since the beginning of the Slovenian state. The Ombudsman himself, despite his party's sympathy, warns that it was too much for Mr Dimovski to attend meetings on this subject to do anything in this area. The decision before us, which is proposed by the mother’s working body, needs to be supported, is a decision that is impossible or difficult to oppose. In fact, this area needs to be regulated by law and I do not think there will be any problems here, and we will also support the decision in the Slovenian National Party. We wonder what you've been doing so far; I take it that you haven't considered the content of this decision for 12 years. As I said, we will support this decision in the SNS. But only the report ahead of us is simply a tribute to the work of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you. My word, Mrs. Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the special report and the consequences or the proposal for a recommendation prepared by the Commission, we say that we will talk and talk about the topic on the agenda, and I am surprised that, at the end of the day, more or less is coming, that the subject is always referred to as a criticism of the work of the Ombudsman. In doing so, they forget, colleagues and colleagues, that the Ombudsman is not an institution for research into the causes and for finding solutions in a particular area of human rights violations, but rather an authority which must assist the individual or group of individuals deprived of human rights in relation to the State authorities who are actually violating this right. In this case, in fact, the Ombudsman has carried out his task of linking all the problems that have been available to him in this area, as long as he has received reports from individuals, individuals, children, women, men, older people who have suffered domestic violence and who have applied to the Office of the Ombudsman, and at the same time, of course, he has also provided this information or has found that by combining this information it is necessary to ensure that the competent State authorities, the so-called competent ministries and the judiciary, have merged, linked and tried to find reasons for the violence in the family and, of course, the way that these reasons are addressed or that they address the consequences that arise as soon as possible. It is said that this report is not meant as an annual report of the Ombudsman, which is recorded in the Law on the Ombudsman, but as a report on how the State authorities responded and what it proposes to the National Assembly and Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is said that the institution which is most competent to conduct a full study to find the roots of domestic violence and of all other violence to address the problem in an integrated manner and to propose to the National Assembly an appropriate legal and other solution. In fact, the law itself, these debaters have often found out today, will not solve the problem. The problem will only be solved when we have a wide range of measures, especially through the policy of this government and this society in this society, to eliminate or raise the level of tolerance to domestic violence and to violence in society in general. I am convinced that talking about the fact that there is much more violence in the family mainly because the climate in society is such - I think it is somewhat wrong because it is necessary to know that, over the past ten years and even more, the activity of civil society, as well as the activity of the government, the office for equal opportunities, before that the office for gender equality or something like that, has focused on raising the awareness of the whole of society that domestic violence is not acceptable and that it is also necessary to open up. With these actions, with this activity, which reached the last municipality in Slovenia, to the smallest municipality in Slovenia, we have achieved by these actions that victims of violence are no longer ashamed of being victims, but many of them have become capable or capable of becoming victims, have hoped for their suffering and their difficulties to trust those they felt worthy of. As a result, the prevalence of domestic violence has become public, more than it has been in the past centuries. It is said that an idealized family in Christian society 100 or 150 years ago was hiding significantly more violence in the family and there was no knowledge of it. This is a difference until today, when society has found that it is different from opening up the problem of public speaking about it, telling victims that they are not condemned for their entire lives to be victims, that is why today the violence in the family of all kinds is also the non-payment of dependents - which I think is a state, government, this state assembly but took a step forward when the maintenance fund established that this is one of the reasons why we know more openly than we have to talk about the problem so far. And there's something else I'd like to say when we talk about women being the most likely victims or that domestic violence is the most common cause of women's injuries - it's just statistical data. When we gather data on how many times a woman gets injured in her apartment for such or other reasons, we find that the washing machine did not fall on her head just by accident or that she did not fall on the stairs by accident, but that this happened because of violence. So when the statistics start to work, these numbers are also revealed. This does not mean that the family is inherently dangerous. And the one who thus interprets this claim is, of course, maliciously making this claim. And one more thing I would say is that those people who have performed very similar tasks in the previous mandate, as they are now doing in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, have been responsible, are responsible, and will be responsible for bringing this legislation to the National Assembly, in order to adopt the law, and in particular to enforce the law, so that this government and, in particular, this ministry will carry it out as it should be. So we can't move around and talk, although it's true that the fish on the head stinks, that in the end it won't happen, that the current minister will be guilty of not doing what his innermost colleagues should do. So, I think talking about domestic violence is not a taboo anymore, and that's why it's right to act against it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u113	Can I just ask Mrs. Pecan's replica? Otherwise, I was not directly mentioned, but the Christian family was mentioned and as representative of New Slovenia, the Christian-Human Party, I think it is my duty to explain just a few words about this. You spoke exactly about the Christian family. I believe, Mrs. Pechanova. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Would you allow me, Mr. President? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u114	I'm sorry, I don't think you were named or misquoted, so I can't give my word for the replica. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you very much. If you calm down, colleague. I think, given that some civil society institutions have e-mailed us, I don't even know how to list them, which all ask what the government thinks about domestic violence, I would like to remind again, which, of course, has been said several times today, that the government's opinion has been written and that we've all received it, and also those who ask us what the government thinks about it, but if it's not too much, I will read it again. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the report covered only one segment of the occurrence of violence and thus put domestic violence at the forefront of the problem. The report avoided the synergistic treatment of all forms of violence and thus the analysis of the degree of correlation between individual types of violence in society. There are many of us here who are convinced that the family is not the generator of violence, but that it is the victim of this violence, which is generally growing in our society. And if anyone, then surely the churches in Slovenia are one of those institutions, from the Roman Catholic and, of course, also others, who constantly warn about this. I wouldn't talk about it in broad terms, because there was much about it already, but there was only one segment of the phenomenon, and the impact of society on family education would be mentioned, if you'll allow me. I would just like to go back a little bit and mention the debates that have taken place here in this National Assembly and questions to Minister Gabr, what he will do in this direction to reduce violence in our schools. The Minister has consistently responded with some quasi arguments that this is not a major problem and that the situation in our schools, such as it is, is actually good. We ourselves know that this is not the case, and that many schools, especially at the secondary level of vocational education, are now forced to introduce security guards and similar protective mechanisms due to the increase in violence. There will have to be a lot of change in this area in order to take a step towards reducing this, and, of course, it will be necessary to restore authority and then through this, to achieve that violence less in this area of education and, of course, in all other aspects of our society. When we are able to resolve this completely, then I believe that violence in the families themselves will not be as much as it is, because it is practically from the streets today in many ways passes into our families. It is true, however, that before this, it is in some way necessary to determine how much of this violence there is, but not as - if I correctly understood the Ombudsman in the introductory explanation, which he mentioned that about 17,000 children are born in Slovenia annually and that our Slovenian society should not allow several thousand children to live in domestic violence. I think that we are talking about this problem of domestic violence, this phenomenon is not as big as the Ombudsman's. Otherwise, it would be right that, as a representative, as a guardian, he could also do so and begin to see how much it is, in fact, that such reports would then be more professional and would also address the problem we are talking about more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Janc is not here, so Mr Janko Weber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, President. I salute the Ombudsman with my coworkers! With regard to today's point, created precisely because of the Ombudsman's special report on domestic violence and the address of this topic, the Ways to a Solution, I would like to say in the introduction that we can truly express our appreciation in Slovenia for non-governmental organisations that have contributed greatly to the mitigation or mitigation of the consequences of this violence. According to the information we are tracking, it can be found that a network of safe houses is being built, that information offices, centres where they can turn 24 hours a day, try to mitigate the consequences or start to solve the problems they face as soon as possible. This is a truly important role of NGOs in Slovenia and I think that they have not been given enough attention in today's debate, so I welcome them once again in my debate and thank them for the work they have done. The Ombudsman also certainly did a great deal of work when he gathered a wide variety of experts from different fields, so that this material, which is now under discussion in the National Assembly, was produced. And I'm really surprised by the government's position when it's constantly stumbled when it's not the right form, there's no business regulations or anything like that. I think that this is an approach that the government should certainly not afford and should actually be pleased that someone has done this work and that they are trying to find solutions that the real government will later have to implement. However, in the course of the debate in the National Assembly, I think that we can achieve that this application will only accelerate and that the real work that has been done at both the level of NGOs and the Ombudsman will come upon fertile ground. This is certainly a broader problem than the government claims it is not just a narrow area. But also in the summary of experts’ suggestions in this paper, it is very good that we should actually reduce the stress that causes violence and generate it because of its inequalities. And it is these inequalities that I think those we should and will all appear to be talking about in the future at least more, because the fact is that the differences between individual families, between individual status, from year to year are greater and not smaller. The impact, if I may say so, and the interest of capital is too great, therefore the social situation is also changing in a way that creates an ever more favourable environment for the violence we are witnessing in society. In order to reduce poverty, unemployment, racial, sexual and national inequalities, and in particular to ensure good access to health care and education, the real objective of a government with this option must be to reduce poverty, unemployment, racial, sexual and national inequalities. These are the directions that are written in this material. I think they are also extremely lifelike and also decisive whether or not we will succeed in reducing violence in society. So today's debate can, again, be a big step towards the government starting its work in a way that, of course, there will be as little violence in society as possible. If this work is not done in a way that will reduce violence, of course, we will also be able to find, on the basis of today's debate in a year, two, three, four, that it has not done its work well. And certainly today's debate is a good introduction to the fact that we will be able to monitor the work of the government in the coming years, whether it will achieve these objectives or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The fundamental essence of today's debate is somehow forgotten. I would like to point out that it is poverty that is responsible for many family breakdowns and that Slovenian honest working families are also hungry many times when they do not have the money for basic survival. And if the base cell of our society, such as the family, has no basis for survival, then this family also begins to argue. And it is these children of these honest working people, workers and workers, citizens and citizens who cannot be educated because they do not have families or positions. Our society does not create added value, we do not have new jobs, educated children cannot be employed. This segment of the social abyss has not been thought of, talked about, and talked about things of general importance. And, of course, they're important. However, I think that for those laws that we have warned about and are also of a social character, there was no real obedience in this house. I'm referring to the law on Roma communities here. Article 3 made it clear that Roma are exactly the same in front of all other citizens and citizens and must also take care of children themselves. Today, at the age of 13, these children are actually sexually abused, have no adequate social status in society, are underdressed, are in places that are not suitable and worthy of a child in adulthood. In no case have our social services taken care to put such children in a foster care relationship. Just saying what needs to be done is of course not enough. We are saddened by the fact that our Office for Human Rights deals only with these problems in a declarative manner. And I'd like to know when we have a representative here, I'm glad he's listening to me, how many cases have been definitively solved. I am also interested in how much taxpayers' money we have spent on doing nothing, of course nothing: just a reminder of what can be commonly known by statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Friend. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Kangler. Yes, Mr. Miran Potch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Ombudsman, dear colleague and colleague! I understand the Ombudsman's special report on domestic violence as one of the points to the social situation to which the Ombudsman wishes to point out that we would find in the National Assembly all the necessary activities and measures to address these issues. So talking about how we speak today or whether the Guardian has directed us only to domestic violence is, of course, pointless. Yes, he has directed us today only to domestic violence, because it is one of the issues that has been specifically addressed and which, according to him and also my assessment and our assessment, is worth dealing specifically with in the National Assembly. I am aware, and I myself do not feel special joy in dealing with the dark things of our society. This is one of the dark ends of this society. They just exist. It doesn't show any potential, but it's as bad as if we're getting them, running away from them, saying they're not there, and there's not a lot of reasons why they're coming. Indeed, there are many reasons. Those who say they're social, I agree with him. The one who says they're residential, I agree with him. The one who says they're personal with him I agree. The one who will say that it is not only violence in the family against women, but when it comes to men, I also agree with him. The one who says that violence against children is the worst, because they can't defend themselves because they resist the hardest, and I agree with him. But talking about wanting to potentialise some questions that are not there seems extremely inappropriate to me. And it seems to me an extremely inappropriate "defense" position of the government, trying to show and ask why we are dealing only with domestic violence. Because this topic is current because it exists and because, for many reasons, we do not want to prohibit violence, because this cannot be done, nor can it be concluded that there will be no more of it, but we want to find out where everything is in the labour law, in the family, in the social, school and so on, the activities and legislation of the issues that appear to be addressed so that there are gradually fewer such issues that we are dealing with in the family. It's not an attack on anyone, it's not an attack on any job, it's not an attack on any institution. There are different ways to deal with these issues. Across different paths. I agree that it can help, including those who are deeply religious. It can help, but it is not necessarily because there is violence where religious families are concerned. I agree that only wealth means nothing. There are many times in rich people's relationships worse than in those who are more modest, I will not say poor. But all of this needs to be seen, and in this way I also understand that the Ombudsman wanted to encourage us to do so, and I would like this government to see that it is also worth drafting a special law on domestic violence, to address the causes, not to think that the law can eliminate the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say how I see the quality of the special Ombudsman's report on domestic violence. I had the opportunity to participate in several annual reports by the Ombudsman and also to discuss whether a special guardian of children's rights was needed or not. At the time, however, it was said that the Ombudsman’s annual reports depended on the cases that the Ombudsman’s Office received to deal with, but on some of the problems it faced, it could pay particular attention. And he has given such attention to the problem of domestic violence, and since January 2003, when the first consultation of representatives of those institutions responsible for regulating this area has been convened, it has taken a bad year to organise an expert consultation, the result of which is a special report. And what I think is particularly important is that the Ombudsman's introductory reflection ends with the phrase: "I am sure that knowledge collected in this publication will help raise awareness and also lay down legal regulations that will regulate the area of domestic violence in its entirety." Has this accumulated knowledge removed any of the nuisances of the problem called domestic violence? It is possible to read that for some good 20 years we are talking about violence in the family publicly in Slovenia. In other countries, too, the story of public talk of domestic violence is not excessively long. But recently, I read that in Britain they found that 1 in 4 women was beaten and that two people died or were severely injured a week. I take this as an example of a country with a very old democracy, we say. That is why I do not find it difficult to discuss violence in the family even with us, and I do not see this debate as an attack on the Institute of the Family. The report is very logical for me. It goes from looking at chronology to the experience of a woman with a history of violence, to telling a woman with a history of violence. There, in fact, fundamental questions arise as to how we view those who talk publicly about domestic violence. There it is written, and elsewhere, the truth that we should believe that someone who has experience with violence should listen to it and should not be stigmatized and considered in the family environment as a betrayer of some value, which is a general social value, a universal value. I admit that it is probably difficult to talk about this because our expectations about the family are such that this will be a place of safety, of harmonious life, and that the family will also be able to care for those who are weaker. In a safe house, I met over 60 years of age a woman who at just this late age realized that something was wrong if she was beaten to death, that it was not normal. But the fact is that some things in our environment are considered normal, but I would not like to refer to any cheap jokes or cheap singers. And if I go forward with this report, this story of a woman with experience is also violent with the opinion of young people. I don't know if you've noticed. Only three out of 51 respondents believe that domestic violence is not a serious problem. There are few young people who would not even know this fact, that the boundary between education and violence is very difficult to draw and advocate for it, and they also say that mental violence is no less terrifying than physical violence. And then comes the experts' contributions. Those who missed a speech on violence in school, 18 consecutive points of Toneto Vrhovnik Strake talk about dealing with violence in the school environment. Therefore, it is impossible to say that there is no talk about this, and therefore I am only alerting the last 23rd chapter, which has narrowed the findings of the various experts and is divided into two parts. 23 indications of the various problems experienced by experts in practice are summarised there. Then there is a summary of the experts' proposal. That is why I think this report is qualitative: because it grows out of expertise because it grows out of practice because it grows out of personal experience and because all of these contributions come to an end with what needs to be done. I wrote down what it ends with. Where there is talk about what the obligation of whom is: The general obligation for all ministries and other state authorities and authorities in local communities to ensure in their area that they are committed to ensuring such conditions that do not cause, justify or maintain domestic violence." Now I ask myself whether, for the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there is a way to say to the special report of the Ombudsman that violence in the family is not a solution to the fact that it does not help with any position that is so critical about this report that it does not help to at least justify domestic violence. On the Committee on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we had no opportunity to listen to a representative of the government, but we had the opportunity to listen to v.d. to the director of the Directorate for the Family, who had a different position on the systematic regulation of the area of domestic violence than other representatives of the institutions, including the judiciary, also representatives of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, including representatives of the Supreme Court and also representatives of the police. And that is exactly what I would like to point out, in fact, that the police are the only public service available to residents 24 hours and 7 days a week for public health and life protection services. That is why it seemed to me exactly the story of a police representative who advocated the need for a special law on domestic violence was so much more justified, because it also supported, with specific statistics, why it would be necessary, and also with the findings of where all the weaknesses in the current legislation, which require such a comprehensive, legal text, which in itself will not eliminate domestic violence, unless we are prepared to implement these legal provisions in practice. I also did not overlook what was written to say that, say, nurses or doctors do not actually know the statistics on the extent to which the victim resorts to violence. Therefore, I think it is really important to note that there is also a need for a set of urgent tasks that everyone who comes in contact with a victim of violence must do without thinking about what to do, but will immediately know what to do from the set of all these steps. Interestingly, among young people it is not known that the crisis centre is the address to which they can turn. The question is, does everyone always know where to turn? Not to mention any other problems faced by those who would promise that the prohibition of approximation in the police law or any other provision would also allow them to realize what society eventually expects them to hear about their problems and that it would help them to eliminate what is essentially different from any other form of violence in my family when it comes to domestic violence. It means that this is a circle in which people with experience of violence due to irregular conditions, either housing, financial, employment or others, even when their stay in a crisis centre or safe house or in a maternity home is likely to expire, must always be returned and this circle simply does not open. I know the statistics of social work centres or safe houses that talk about how many women with experience are being abused in their path of finding human dignity and dignity, a man worthy of survival, a delusion because they cannot face new problems, and they return to an environment where they face old problems. However, so that these familiar and old problems can end with death, several times has been said today. And there's something else I'd like to point out. We have a safe house in Maribor. We have a maternity home. We also have NGOs working with people who have experience in violence. They don't have it in every environment. When the heads of the safe house, the Maribor safe house, collected contributions from the municipalities to establish a 24-hour duty station for the possibility of reporting a woman with a history of violence, since usually women advertised, not children, for help, there were no municipalities covered by the safe house in Maribor. And I'm embarrassed to tell you how small that amount was. But if you review the statistics, the frequency of domestic violence is higher at the end of the week and higher in the night. Let this be an illustration. The criminal acts reported to the police in the years 2000 and 2001 were recorded at between midnight and 4 a.m., for example, between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m., 743 p.m., from 8 p.m. to midnight 696. Well, and less, of course, from noon to four o'clock and at least four o'clock to eight o'clock in the morning. And if we were to draw any other data, then we would find a sad fact that when I talk about people with a history of violence, no group of people, not by age or by sex, is actually excluded. The truth is, however, that women among victims of domestic violence are far more likely to be involved, so it is also reasonable to resolve this problem, since such awareness and rescue women will be able to take care of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u125	Your Honors are here! At the beginning of today's debate, I think it was mentioned by two debates that there have been even inappropriate requests or wishes for Mr Hanžek to leave this institution. Here. I myself have been one of those who have asked for this, and I still insist that this would be very appropriate for the development of our country and, above all, for the security of the rights of all layers of citizens and citizens. I am one of those who does not believe that verbal violence, incompetence and inefficiency can be rewarded. I believe that the results of the work appear to be different from that of the Ombudsman today. I'm not one of those who works after that procedure, sets up a commission if you don't want to solve the problem, or accept the document if you don't want to solve the problem. But these are the two working formulas used in this mandate by the entire Ombudsman Institute. Today, we have heard or written down a number of observations or qualities that some of us have about that document. Firstly, to thank you for your work so far and how excited they are about the report that came in the form of the Rapporteur on our bench, and secondly, on the quality of this report. I'm sorry, but in my opinion, I would like to point out, in my opinion, that if someone praises the quality of this report, and if someone says that they deserve all the credit, I'm sorry, he didn't read it! The title of this report, I think, is about goals, solutions, new ways. No spirit, no hearing about it. Gentlemen, only those who have very low conscience or have no conscience will be pleased to leave today because this will be accepted. In fact, nothing is going to change. While the three quarters that you are sitting here today in your previous term, you have had the opportunity, in the form of a law, to resolve the matter, which is defined in three or four chapters of this law, so you would only adopt the law that the national party has offered you for admission, which defines penalties, prevents sexual violence against an adult, a weak person, and against young people. No, ladies and gentlemen of the United List and the Liberal Democracy, you have all voted against. On behalf of the parliamentary group, the colleague Žgajnareva cited one argument that you used at the time. It was that the system of punishment would collapse if pedophiles and rapists were punished with maximum punishment, as we suggested. I will make another argument, which was then made by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, led by the United List of Social Democrats. Do you know what the argument was at the time, why the government opposed the bill we offered to receive in the national party? That it would cost too much to take care of the prisoners. That was an argument back then. Mrs Shirca, I believe that you don't read the material at all, so don't even comment on it when you have no idea about things. On the other hand, what is even more critical and, in my opinion, offensive, not only to this national assembly, but to the whole country of the Republic of Slovenia, is that someone who today boasts the authorship or organizational execution of this report does not even react to that law. Today, however, he writes about these problems as to how worrying this is and how it makes sense for them to continue writing their reports and then to join them together and give them to the National Assembly to confirm this and we will all be happy again in our society. This is not the way the legislative branch solves matters. This is the way you can have it, I don't know, in the Club of Liberal Democracy, in the United States List, anyone. The task of the National Assembly is elsewhere. We are enacting laws that will make certain aspirations or prevent unwanted activities and actions in our society that are too much. We agree on that, but not about the way you pass it. That, gentlemen and ladies, you must have a very shallow conscience if that pleases you. And there's another thing. I personally assess, once again, the point I personally assess that, of course, it is true that there is no legal initiative in the hands of the Ombudsman, but not even the pre-trial procedures that are in his hands, i.e. initiatives, the Ombudsman, at least as far as the National Assembly is concerned, have not benefited. According to our assessment, with this kind of work that we are doing on your proposal with the support of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, you are giving even a green light to enrich all negative phenomena in society. What's the result? But politics doesn't care if they accept documents like that. In my opinion, it's a mistake to think like this. But an even bigger mistake is that everyone praises this thinking, so let's accept the document, accept the brochure, let's warn and say yes, that's it, but nothing concrete comes from your kind. That is why at least within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group there has been a tendency, and above all the desire for the Ombudsman's institution to be led by someone who is capable of protecting rights and not only the rights of individual marginal groups, as they are called, but of citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Pavel Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I myself have also decided to speak on this subject, especially on the subject of domestic violence, as a basic cell, we once said to societies, and I would not even have notified myself so much or decided to implement it if, of course, I did not have the Ombudsman's report before me. According to our assessment, even in my opinion, this is just a collection of some writings, free writings, where there is a lack of life, of endless energy, which should be embedded from the Ombudsman in this report, and which could be the basis for the resolution of historically missed opportunities for the maintenance of the family as a breeding cell, as a parent cell of society and as a development cell. In fact, I am also amazed at the dryness of the individual debaters in this Chamber. We talked about the extent to which violence is, how to talk about violence, how difficult it is, how, once violence has become a fact, we no longer have support in the police, or in other law enforcement agencies, let alone in the courts. Who will be given the right, the father, the mother or then the child? Whom should be considered a victim of violence as a priority? So, just nothing. We talked about safe houses, we talked about how hard everything was. But we missed one very important point. And that is, since when do these elements of violence actually occur? They've been showing up since the beginning of World War II, in that, I'm going to say, to some, Ideologically overstretched, to look at the family as the base cell of love. She put it into an element of some consumption, into an element of some ideology, where it is best if the father is a member of some committee and the mother of some AFJ and children will be very pleasantly left to the upbringing of socialist kindergartens and then to primary education in the sense of neosocialism, in the sense of Marxism, where you have never and never seen the word love, whether the father and mother are the ones who create or transfer those values to the family from generation to generation. Even in this report, if you think you talked about love in socialism, I'll tell you you're not. And even in this report, see what we have listed, what is the function of the family: satisfying the sexual needs of men and women, with the exception of swingers. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] ; then to provide reproduction, role by giving birth to offspring. [[...]] Reproductions, applications Is the family a reproduction of children? [[...]] Are we the families of the children's factory? Next, the personality stability of adults, satisfying emotional needs and a sense of security. Furthermore, the socialisation of children and the economic function of the family. That's all you've written in this report is what family is. Where are the values here? Those values that you have neglected for 50 years in families that you have deliberately destroyed, and which also the previous generation, this generation, I will say, have not been able to value, or encourage or warn, even after the independence of Slovenia. So today we probably have a whole bunch of wildlings, including our peers, we have violence in a family where it's the least of the problems for a slapper woman, and it's probably in large cases where violence is from children, like eating everyday bread, because no one ever asks themselves if family life is still the life of a normal original cell, and I'm going to say again, love. Where are the values here? I was personally very confident that with the independence of Slovenia, there will be education in kindergartens, in schools, in adults, in major transformations or in a different sense. Indeed, in a sense, as in most countries in the European Union. See, if you look at the number of families, the number of divorces, the number of violence in the family - Slovenia belongs to the summit itself, along with some post-communist countries. So, hand to heart, we missed the historic opportunity to raise and learn to raise also adults in terms of a family without violence and without problems. When this, I will say, is a terrible gap of these, I will say that they value each other's lives, that they value each other's lives and that they co-create or that they compromise, so I am bitter and now I am very upset, and I very much hold back from saying anything else on this subject, but it seems to me that once we missed those opportunities when the violence in the family started, we started, and we started changing the policies and adopting laws on how we would fix these mistakes. And we've made big mistakes, very big mistakes. We have decided that we will now adopt a law on social protection, then we have adopted some way of creating social assistance through these centres for social assistance and work. Then we invented safe houses, then we invented accessories. We can't propose terminations. We can't because there's such a big family with this violence that there's no turning back. But I want to tell you who did this and how it could be prevented, and it didn't. It's too late to take these things off, now we have to work in the other direction. However, we may also have the opportunity to raise a new family, as they used to be raised, to re-establish a system of education in kindergartens, a system of education in schools, as I said, in terms of communication, understanding of the family, including love, Mr Hanžek, sorry, you can laugh, but the Ombudsman is the first person in this country and wherever there should be love for people to solve problems. But you don't. You're either statistically or ideologically. And I was your ally, and I'm not anymore, because I realized that this function is just like last year's snow. And I'm sorry. I regret that there are no guidelines in this report, no guidelines that would point to the value of a family that should be encouraged, we should be spending money here, not money to save battered women, not to send which children into social protection, not to build safe houses. That's a mistake. Now they must be, once again, because we're in a state of disastrous family relations, because you wrote that that's true. Instead of spending our money, we do not, for Dimovski wrote it this way, save the congregations, even this was negligence. The Ministry of Labour in previous mandates has not advocated just solving problems, no, municipalities, you give. That was the whole point. You didn't take those responsibilities either. And now allow this government to say something on the subject of family values. Value, this is missing here, this is missing in this report and in the concept of family development and, of course, reducing violence as a result. As long as we have such institutions writing, writing and writing and just talking about how to save someone who has already fallen into disaster, this country is lost.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u128	Mr. Rupar, close up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u129	I will, Mr. President. Nothing will be wrong with the ladies and gentlemen if we take a step back if we take a step into rearing those little children and help them shed light on those little brains, what the family actually means is that it's not corning, that it doesn't matter how many partners you have, that it doesn't matter where you rock and swing, but that it's especially important that parents give love to their children, that they will learn it for their generation to move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. As at the time of the discussion, a number of issues addressed to the government have already been raised and the Presidency has expressed its readiness to give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Tivadar, v.d. Director-General of the Family Directorate, if of course no one objects. I ask, does anyone object to Mr Tivadar speaking on behalf of the Ministry? Is that procedural or opposition? Please, Mrs. Zalokareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u131	When this question was raised, it was said that we would be asked and will have the opportunity to say whether we agree. In the light of the rules of procedure, I believe that only the Minister or Secretary of State may represent the positions of the Government at the meetings of the State Assembly. We have not received any explanation today, but there is neither a minister nor a secretary of state here, so I think it is a matter of underestimating the subject of today's agenda as well as the national assembly if the government's views are represented by government representatives who do not play the most important role. As far as the LDS Club is concerned, we are opposed to representing the government's position by inadequate representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you. It's over. The Ministry won't get a word. Is there another procedural issue or another procedural initiative? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give the floor to the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you all for giving your opinions today, whatever. In particular, I thank this, I hope, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and others, who will help prepare a law that will in any way reduce domestic violence. I must repeat what has also been mentioned, by the way, the Ombudsman is only a warning institution that warns society of mistakes. The Ombudsman may not perform the work of any ministry, of any institution. Nevertheless, we have tried to do more than we are told, but of course we are not banned, and we have prepared a special report to encourage debate, today that would lead to some social action, a law, and even more so is a national plan to reduce domestic violence and violence. I must say that the title of this report is Domestic Violence, so to speak of what is not yet in it, I think it makes no sense, because you can read everything more or less in the annual reports of the Ombudsman, where we also process maintenance, including school violence, almost all the things that have been said today. Here we have not presented the whole set, we have come up with one problem that we think is too small and very important. If it's important, I'll just make one argument. The samples that children learn from their early years in the family are almost eternal in their lives. All other institutions can do little to repair them, but not many can. We weren't talking about the cause. If we start talking about what's sooner: egg or chicken, we'll be there again so we don't talk about anything. This has to be cut off somewhere and it has to be cut off in children, on the one hand, but on the other hand, we have come from dealing with the type of violations of child abuse rights against children and this has encouraged us to take a step further from the individual persecution of individual institutions that have done too little to protect children to some systemic solution. Unfortunately, it has taken too long, and I hope that the realization will now take place as soon as possible. You must also accept this report as one piece of the guardian's work. In addition, the report is an annual report on human rights. This report is made up, as you saw at the beginning, in chronology, where it is quite accurate, but briefly written what we have done in recent years. Not only is this report what we did at the Ombudsman's office, but we have had a number of activities, since they first received one third of the government, education ministers, health, home affairs, justice, the Attorney General, the President of the Supreme Court, they have gathered at two meetings in one place at the Ombudsman's office to start to think multidisciplinaryly about the problems of domestic violence, as a multi-faceted approach has been mentioned. Let me say the purpose of this report very briefly once more. We do not imagine that this report can be absolutely complete and complete. I don't think there's an institution in this country that could describe and do everything once and for all and accurately. This report was an incentive to work on. Sexual abuse is described elsewhere in the Ombudsman’s report, and there is only one piece of violence in family violence. The survivors, they could be said to be the violence of the state against those who do not receive the maintenance because it is ineffective in recovery. By the way, I must reject the claim that the Ombudsman has done nothing in this area. The Maintenance Fund was established on the basis of the recommendations and requests of the Ombudsman, not me, my predecessor, but this is also one of the, say, babies of this office. So it's not true we didn't do anything. I'd like to touch a few more things. A comprehensive law, an integrated approach - I think that the requirement for an integrated law that will deal in one place with beatings at the inn, domestic violence, school beatings and so on, is an excuse and a diversion for not doing anything. We are aware that the family is such a special institution, we can say the basic cell or whatever, and so important that it needs special care and special law and special and special methods of reducing and preventing domestic violence and treatment, and everything else. As far as we are aware of the widest possible government that we are not aware of, there is also a chapter in the 2002 report of the Ombudsman - only the title - that I will read - of the Ombudsman proposes a common commitment to non-violent society adopted by the Government, local communities and civil society. There was no answer to that. It is said that two or three years old the Ombudsman’s idea is to resort to violence in society as a whole; this is special, so these are two things. We've been thinking more or less about all this. A multidisciplinary approach - all of which we have done with the aim of a multidisciplinary approach, so I also reject criticism that we have not supported the law on punishment. We stand in the position that a single law that raises penalties will do nothing. It is necessary from prevention to values, as has been said, to a complex approach which the Ombudsman cannot afford, and I am sure that the ministry alone cannot, but the Ministry and Government must encourage institutions. We got a bunch of experts who did this. To return to this report again. In the first part, as you've seen, there's a chronology that tells us what we've been doing in addition to this report. Finally, there is a summary, which is, in fact, a report by the Ombudsman, where, to warn you, we have launched, point 1, a social framework. We have not neglected the social framework in which the family is, I am a sociologist, and we could immediately take away my diploma if I did not realize this connection. But I certainly won't tolerate anything in the family. Very connected, you both have to do it. We started in this social framework. First sentence: In order to reduce domestic violence, broader social changes would be necessary; standards that give or even glorify domestic and social violence should be eliminated. I reject all of this because we've never talked about values, nor norm, nor talked about it. The first sentence is from our short projection text. We mentioned the role of the media, which is often negative. We should reduce the stress that causes violence and generate it because of its inequalities. If it is in the family, in society of less poverty, unemployment, race, sex and nationality, inequality, with good access to health care, education, this reduces this part of the stress in families for which society is responsible. We didn't write about it either. The next item is interinstitutional cooperation. This is essential and fundamental all the time, so my first action was to call the ministers, all the ministers responsible in this area, a year and a half ago, or two and a half years after we agreed on interinstitutional cooperation. The next thing that needs to be changed is legislation, then persecution and justice, we have touched on health issues, social work centres and, of course, also the importance of non-governmental organisations, which, once again, must be made public - probably the most done in this society to prevent and reduce domestic violence. I think I'm almost done, just a second. I think that's enough. I'll just add two more things. The government says, [[I lost a note about it.]] That we have only this network, which operates, of home and safe houses, in this respect I fully agree with Mr Rupar. For me, every tolar that's been given to safe houses is one more proof that this society, the country, whoever it is, has fallen to the test of preventing domestic violence. The whole goal of our work was to reduce the number of safe houses as much as possible, so that we do not reward the abusers by staying in houses, in apartments, and the victims go to safe houses for which the state pays. It's one, literally a perverse story, even though we'll probably never be able to stop them completely. But the excuse that we have safe houses and we have done this for non-violence of domestic violence - I agree, Mr. Rupar, completely with you, is OK. [[...]] Just answer two more questions. It was said why I had to argue in the editorial. I did not dispute, I am convinced that I am obliged to defend the name of the experts who have worked in this area for free, come here and call them quasi experts. For me, as far as I'm concerned, I haven't called, and it's just part of my job that I'm taking. But I certainly have an obligation to defend the experts. I did not polymise, but I simply said that I do not agree with the fact that experts who have actually done much could do so with their left and right hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Ombudsman, Matjaž Hanzku. Since the time for discussion has not yet been fully over, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Let me read: Kumer, Potrata, Pecan, Rupar, Lakhovnik, Orazem, Pece, Zagorac, Kucler - three minutes later. Mr. Kumer, please, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to express my disagreement with the simple and quick judgment of values on the very pressing issue of domestic violence and relations as this basic cell of society. In view of the fact that the previous 50-year system has created conditions or raised conditions that this violence in the family has been culminated in the last 10, 15 years. I have two things to say. If so, then we are the product of this philosophy and ideology and are the first ones to represent this group of violent people in this society. I don't agree with that. Secondly, that this is not eminent to Slovenia and to Slovenia, the best evidence of neighbouring Austria, where they did not have communism, did not have socialism and adopted a special law in 1997 to solve the problems of domestic violence. Secondly, I do not agree with and do not support the starting point, given that we are dealing in society with a whole range of elements and violent acts and areas where we find violence so that we do not address the causes and problems of domestic violence at this time. So we have come far enough, and the climate is sufficiently created in society, so that we can start somewhere with a special roof law, and then, of course, all the other segments will sort themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. Kumar. Mr Zagorac or Mr Pece has the floor. It is as agreed in the previous term that it is not in the order of order that we have entered up the deadlines, but that it is changing from one side to the other. Please, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u137	I'm going to answer, because I don't think it's right for Ambassador Zagorec, because before you read the order, he was in the end. But that's a different story. I would like to touch on the final or final speech of the Ombudsman, that is, Mr Hanžk, when he spoke in his first part about the powers and the lack of jurisdiction of him and his institution. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the powers it has are still excessive, given that it is not already able to take advantage of them and is not able to participate in the pre-legislative procedure in the context of giving the national assembly and government initiatives from matter, which one or the other institution, i.e. the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is considering. Another thing I would like to say in these three minutes is that I am sorry for the fact that actions and talks in this national assembly confirm the right to a low level of conscience or conscience. Look, we have a political party who wanted so badly that a competent ministry could also participate in today's debate. On the other hand, this very political party, the Liberal Democracy, has achieved that the ministry today should not have responded to the dilemmas that have been raised and that the executive branch of authorities should not have been involved in today's debate. If it's not a paradox and if it doesn't confirm the words about your, what to say, duplicity, that I'm going to sound very nice, then I don't know what's a better case. Another issue is when it comes to partial reports by the Ombudsman and this report, which also touches on sexual inviolability in its content. How can we trust the Ombudsman if he does not even know the name of the law, which defines punishments that are at risk of sexual misconduct! We can't play like this. Some seriousness on the part of the Ombudsman is to be expected! Ladies and gentlemen, since this National Assembly is not a children's parliament - and I do not want to underestimate this - so that we can mix each other up on average and speak there in three days. However, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, I must say another disagreement, which I believe has aroused in many of you the desire for someone else to occupy the City of Human Rights. When the Ombudsman made it clear and loudly that it was to reduce financial resources to so-called safe houses. Is that for today? Is such thinking normal today? Ladies and gentlemen, I know you won't expect anything out loud, but I want you to change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, I know that the Rules of Procedure give you the opportunity to arrange for who will lead the meeting of the National Assembly instead of you. Therefore, allow me now that you are the one who is leading, to say my disagreement that this item in the agenda today has led one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, who has publicly advocated the idea that the Ombudsman is an unnecessary institution and must be abolished. This, of course, left clues in the conduct of this meeting. And since you, even when there were insults, did not respond to this, I consider it my duty - and thank you for having done this first. Now, here's the other thing. The famous report or the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the special report also states on page 2 that the Minister responsible for the family has appointed a professional council on violence against women, which continues its activities as an expert consultative body, whose task is to prepare professional bases and so on. Well, I must say that, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, I have also invited this Council of Experts to address this item on the agenda and have not reached the Council of Experts. So that it would not be a creative mistake to think that only the current Minister of Labour has established such a world. This is from the previous period and there has also invited representatives of NGOs to participate, and this is, to the extent that I am able to read, contrary to the first paragraph, that the Ombudsman has invited non-governmental organisations to participate and is considered a weakness. Allow me now, as much time as I have left, to say why I will support the adoption of a special law on the prevention of domestic violence. Because it seems to me that today's debate has shown that we have not defined violence, that we have not defined the family, that there are no yet certain obligations or obligations to inform, that the victim's companion has not yet been determined that there is no whole type of thing concerning social protection, harmonised and properly regulated, that special criminal measures are also needed - and all this is what is saying in the interest that the law on the prevention of domestic violence is necessary. Regardless of what will happen today with the recommendation recommended by the Commission in adopting the National Assembly, I hope that the government, in this case the government, will prepare such a special law and will not hide domestic violence in some very general law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that the paradox is that there are no top government representatives here today, especially the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and this is a paradox, because the content would deserve it. However, with regard to quoting some things, I think we should be correct. When the report was cited, it should be said that the report, in addition to the introduction, also makes clear who are the authors of the individual referenda selected in the report. What has been cited in connection with the family function and then with some ridicule has to be said that this is the authorship of Dr. Janko Kersnik, doctor of medicine at the Jesenica Medical House and assistants to Ksenija Tušek Bunc, doctor of medicine, from the Department of Family Medicine of the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana. Then there was quoted and plucked out of this context some thought in mockery of what the family was supposed to be after this report. Of course, the same authors also say many other things about the family. For example, "the family is a closed value system in which its members meet their needs for support, independence, development and understanding" or further. Interestingly, the same authors say that the family is on the rise scale, while at the same time it is important to note that people with the current way of family life are dissatisfied. In short, I could continue to quote, but I don't think it's right that in the National Assembly we're making fun of people who, in my opinion, have written these papers with all their skill, and then we pull something out and say, you're talking about the sexual needs of men and women, I think, from a medical point of view, they wanted to say this part, too. The third thing I would like to say is that today it has also been said that Mrs Zdenka Cerar has defended the courts in court that crimes against sexual inviolability are difficult to prove and that judges have therefore imposed low penalties. Now, that was one simple statement, I think Mrs Cerareva has never defended the courts, but she said that prosecutors in the courts can very easily prove these crimes. And indeed, crimes against sexual inviolability are very difficult to prove because they are hidden between four walls and the victims are terrified and affected. And it must be said that it is from this point of view that the proposal of the state prosecutor has led to the adoption of a new law on criminal proceedings, so that the statements they make are also made [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] just to complete the sentence - including statements made by witnesses or victims before, and later denied them or, due to fear, said that they did not say so, are now being taken into account in the process. So this novel gave the courts a lot of opportunity and I think it was important, but today it has not been mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u142	Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u143	I'm sorry. I'll just be a little short. Given that [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u144	Yeah, don't let [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u145	She mentioned the Attorney General I was talking about. And I just want to explain [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u146	No, no, no, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u147	That she will not live in ignorance, for here I have a report which [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u148	No, please, please, you don't have the right [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u149	The words of the Attorney General. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u150	to the replica. [[...]] Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u151	The rules of procedure seem to be very lengthy. That's all I want to say very briefly. More than once today, there has been a claim that domestic violence must be dealt with along with all other types of violence occurring in our society. I think that this is wrong because other types of violence can be controlled and punished, we also prevent, we also eliminate, on the basis of other types of legislation, while domestic violence is something completely specific because it is concentrated on only one small group of people, but is not limited to a particular age group, sex or anything else. It is said that domestic violence also breeds new violence, and this needs to be realized. That children who have been and are also inside these, as you say, excerts can be traced - exposed or often witnessed, constant violence in the family, usually passed on to their own family, later established by them. I would also like to translate into everyday Slovenian what has been said before: what should be the functions of the family that she had or have had in the family. Love is one of these functions where it writes: satisfying the emotional needs and feeling of security - this is certainly love - the mutual love and respect within the family, ensuring the reproductive role of the birth of offspring, but this is basic, I will say, the command of the church, not just one church, but all churches, that men and women unite in the sexual act to give birth to offspring, not to scatter seeds into the wind, as I recall from the Bible. Some people know what the Bible says, but you can turn it your way. And here I would say, for sure, that it's not the family's intention to torture each other, abuse, beat, or anything like that. The family was, is, and will certainly be designed primarily to make love to one another, to marry or not to marry [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] They live together and have children. This is the basic goal of each family. Now, if in this family [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u152	Mrs. Pechanova, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u153	Because of the physical movements of individual people, violence occurs, I think it is necessary to look for this across the whole spectrum of society, not just in some socialism, as my colleague said. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u155	Mr President, honourable Members. First of all, I think it should be stressed that speaking about domestic violence is not speaking against the family. The fact is that in this way we help the family best, we are all trying to protect those weakest members of the family. Today, we have all received a letter from NGOs expressing concern about some of the views of government officials who seem to think that talking about domestic violence is in itself bad. If we close the matter by four walls, if we noevically push our heads into the sand, then it is simply not, and the problem is solved. I'm very concerned about that kind of relationship. I think violence in society, domestic violence is a problem. It must be said out loud that this will not happen to you, even to those honourable Members and Members who are now nodding. I don't know what's wrong with that. I am concerned, of course, that today there is neither the Minister nor the Secretary of State for Work, Family and Social Affairs, although this item has the title Special Report on Domestic Violence, the path to solutions. Ways to a solution - very affirmative. This is all we have to do here is talk openly about the issue, discuss the report and try to do something, so find ways to find a solution to reduce domestic violence. I don't think this debate is ideological, it's not about Christian family issues, Christian values, it's not about Muslim family issues, Muslim values or anything like that, which some of you have tried to point out in today's debate. It is simply to make life in this country more durable for those who cannot protect themselves. A few years ago, in Velenj, in the place where I live, a few years old child was subjected to domestic violence. If anyone thinks that if we don't talk about it, there will be fewer cases like this, he's very wrong. The next thing I want to remind you of is the question of safe houses. I think it's very worrisome if safe houses are troubled. Even with safe houses, we've had less violence. Even because of safe houses, a woman or a child was less beaten in this country. And I don't know why it bothers anyone, this nobility again: let's shut them down, shut them down for four walls, and we solved the problem. If that's the way it is, then I'm very, very worried. On conclusion, I would say once again that I am truly sorry that there is no minister or secretary of state today. This may also indicate the relationship of this new government to family violence, to family violence, to this problem in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. It's not exactly right to keep an eye on the absence. Mr. Secretary is sick, sick, has the right to have the flu. That's been said many times. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. I think the one who's been in trouble with safe houses is the guardian of human rights. The paradox you mentioned: the biggest paradox is that after 12 years we don't have a law to regulate domestic violence. And yet, one of my predecessors thought, and in the Slovenian National Party, we know that this is a report on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia; the Attorney General Mrs Zdenka Cerar: "The penalties against sexual inviolability are extremely difficult to prove and judges often impose low sentences for this reason," said Maximilian Lavrinc, LDS. That's the opinion. Please, if you can spend the rest of your time with your colleague or I can talk to you for the rest of my life. We know that, that was her statement, the colleague said nothing more than what the Attorney General said what she thought. I hope and appeal once again to the new government that it will take effect as soon as possible, which I believe we will accept today, that this national assembly will meet with a law that will protect domestic violence. I hope it will - thank you for the laughs on that side, you know best what family means [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u158	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u159	It means a law that regulates or prevents domestic violence. [[...]] I hope that the new government has been doing this with experts, and in doing so it will skip the Ombudsman, who, in my opinion, is not an expert, because he has been drafting such a report for two years, or he has written this introduction for two years, and he has also collected other referendums for about that long. We will also do something in this direction in the Slovenian National Party, and we will re-invest in the procedure for amending the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, and in this case, of course, we will also expect support and faith in the family, as shown today by the gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you very much. First, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would respond to Mrs Pecanova's conviction and her accusation of Christian families. I believe that Mrs Pečanova does not accompany modern thoughts about Christian thoughts about women and men's role in the world. And these women attribute a great role to women and mothers to a special city. Hence, her flat - scale references to Christian families are offensive. I would like to take a look at the report presented below. I was on my own until the last time I read the report, in doubt as to whether I should support it, this publication which the Ombudsman, with three paragraphs on the first page, accompanied on the way. The reality of the situation, as well as the debate, once again shows that all this time there was no comprehensive family policy that could create a more favourable situation for more loving family relations. Above all, there is a lack of positive impulses in all debates for young people who are just forming families. For young girls today, it is not easy when they have to look for a boy to be "in" under the pressure of the general atmosphere among young people in their growing teens and subject themselves to forced sex. Of course, that is not what they call it, but it means an act of modernity, not of conservativeism. A few years later, when these two spouses form a family, we call it justifiable domestic violence. It is true, then, that it is time to return to a balance that will help and overcome extremes and will properly evaluate both a girl and a boy, a woman and a man, a mother as a father, parents, and children when developing a healthy self - image. I will support the publication I have gathered before us, but this does not mean agreeing with all the opinions that are given, and especially not with the one given under point 16, with the title Family, where the author suggests to the government that the family should be defined in such a way that the various forms, including the same-sex communities, are covered. So, as New Slovenia's Member, I expect the government to examine the report, but I expect it to remain critical until certain proposals from the publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mrs. Pecanova reporting to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I would only read very briefly Mrs Kucler's words. I did not speak of a Christian family, nor did I speak of the modern name of a family in Christian communities, such as they are today. That's all I said. As a result, the phenomenon of domestic violence has become more public than it has been in the past centuries, it is said that an idealized family in Christian society 100 or 150 years ago was hiding significantly more violence in the family and not known about it, that is the difference to today. Thank you very much, Mrs. Kucler, for listening to me so carefully that you understand everything wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you. One more word, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u165	I explained something to you, though. Mr Kumer, of course, Austria has adopted appropriate laws to protect family members, certainly much, much from Slovenia and Yugoslavia, because they were then able to speak frankly about the existence of this. However, in today's statistical testimonial criteria Slovenia is very, very much in a higher place than Austria and other countries. That's what I was gonna say, so, that's true. Maybe just this, safe houses. If I used to say that a family is a basic element of education, parents are the ones who tolerate their upbringing if they are well-bred, to their children. Let me say that Mr Lahovnik is a poor example for his child. Well, I know he doesn't understand yet because he's still too small. But I wasn't talking and no one was talking about shutting down safe houses. Thank you, Mr. Hanzek. You understand me correctly. It's too bad money we didn't invest in parenting and kids before. I don't know how politics or education could have figured it out, but now it's too late and how we need it. If your child listened to me and then listened to you, then he'll say that his dad is a bad tutor - because you didn't tell the truth. It's just in the end. Both Mrs Pečanova and Cvetka Zalokar - they both talked about the same content as me, of course they were the emphasis on the concept, but I didn't even read who the authors of it were. I may even agree to some extent, and I do not want to criticize them, I just say what my opinion is, but it is not said that it must be exactly the same as those people, and because of me, if they are experts. I certainly can't agree that family is an important spending unit. As long as the family is treated as a consumer, then, excuse me, this company and Slovenia are assisted in the fight against violence - this assistance is not available. If we still go, it is the basic foundation of our family to take our child on Sundays to spend money in large shopping centres instead of in nature, instead of families being there all Sunday and all day long - forgive us, there is no help and I cannot agree that the family is most important only to consumers. We're a consumer society, but that's wrong. I also do not agree with America because they are a consumer society, but I agree with other countries where children, at least when the family can be together, allowing them to be together to allow them to be raised there, raising parents, if they are well raised, passes on to children who are still waiting for this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. The list of panellists is closed and also time for discussion. We only have three short replicas of announcements, short replicas. Mr. Kumer. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u167	I'm running out of time. I'd like to replicate Mr. Rupar. I have little experience with family life, 30 years old, a little more of us, but I would like to read what is written here in the opinion and position of the government, because you have now said again that in Slovenia there is much more of this than in Austria, etc. Indeed, the government in its position says that the Ombudsman does not provide an overall assessment of how social change, the disappearance or change in the values of an individual, globalisation, social exclusion and so on affect the occurrence of violence. Then you cannot give this value and quantitative assessment. I was very precise earlier: in Austria they passed a law on the prevention of domestic violence in 1997. So not a hundred years ago, not 50 years ago, but bad seven or eight years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr Lahovnik has been appointed or is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Rupar, I owe you an explanation: one of my children is eight weeks old, so that he does not deal with you, but my daughter is four years old and rather looks at cartoons than listens to your performance; she is already reasonable enough to know that she learns more useful from cartoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u170	And a brief replica, Mr. Keeper.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd only give one more answer and take advantage of those few minutes I still have left. Looks like we're on the same side once with Mr. Rupar. As far as I understood him correctly, the Member of the Slovenian National Party misunderstood me. But so that this is not left in public, that I stand up for the withdrawal of money from safe houses - it is not true that I stand up for it. I have to say that money for safe houses, unfortunately, must be, but all of our activities, including our activities today, is to make sure that safe houses are not needed in order to make society better so that the victims do not have to run to safe houses. However, I am not advocating that safe houses should now be taken, but that they do not need to be worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Hanzku. As no amendments have been tabled in the proposal for recommendations, we will vote on the recommendation in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mrs. Zalokar? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u173	I hope, Mr President of Parliament, that I am not invisible and that it is only your mistake. However, please, if you can give me your word for the replica, because I raised my hand early enough and was even a little louder, and I think Mr Rupar mentioned me in his debate. I feel like you're doing me wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u174	Mrs Zalokar, I have not noticed and my help has not noticed that he would have misunderstood you or misquote you. Please, Mr. Rupar, you don't have a word. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Following a proposal from Ambassador Sam Bevk, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša to Sam Bevk's question on the issue of the Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries. Anybody want to explain their voice? The reasons for the vote were: Mrs Širca, Mr Školč and Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u175	As long as we vote on the proposal that I personally support, we will also get more options in the National Assembly than we have before when we faced very flabby or almost no explanation from governments to the problems that were also mentioned yesterday in the question of parliament and also in, in my opinion, an unsatisfying answer. I think that the political objectives of historical needs and creatures need to be clarified more deeply. I think it is also necessary to hear a clear opinion of the government, because, after all, this was limited to one very weak opinion issued in the letters of readers, under such a seemingly insignificant problem. That's why I'm going to support this kind of decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr Školč has the floor to explain. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I will also support the State Assembly's holding a debate on these issues. Mr Bevk proposed a debate that was broader than what had been read before the vote. Mr Bevk spoke about relations with neighbours and about the issue of minority rights in particular. From this point of view, I expect that, in this debate on the government's response, we will also talk about these relations, these historical contexts, these discussions that change the view of our immediate past, and in this context also about the government's actions, which, I will say, change the situation of Slovenia to the visas of these countries, including the visas of the 1964 law, which opens up a new circle of potential beneficiaries to various requirements for the loss of citizenship under this law in 1964, where Mr Janša misspeaks that it is an optante. The questions of the opentants and their assets have been resolved by the Roman agreements, but the questions that this chapter raises are issues that have so far been uncontested between the countries, but which can cause, I say, a new splatter of sharps, and this must be the subject of this debate on our relations with our neighbours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u178	Thank you. The explanation is also given by Mr Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u179	On behalf of the Group of Members. Our Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group does not agree with this mode of discussion, although we fully agree on the problems that need to be discussed and this opportunity was in this week, and it was in the last week. But this is precisely because we discussed this on the Foreign Policy Committee. And the positions of your parliamentary group and Mr Rob, which have gone in a diametric direction, because you wanted to destroy the meeting, not to adopt conclusions on this subject, we find that it is dishonesty, hypocrisy and duality. And in this there is a tendency to create methods of cultural warfare here in Slovenia. Very covert and very refined you're trying to put these things together. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u180	Mr Jerovšek, the explanation, this is not a controversy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u181	This is why we do not support this debate, but we support this debate where it is necessary. Mr Rob also said on that committee that he did not think it would make sense for him to argue that it did not make sense to him. Why? If you don't see sense, then why are you asking for a discussion like this? And I am in favour of the National Assembly discussing such things, just not putting them around the corner, with purely other aspirations. It's actually something else back here. We cannot agree with this in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We have taken very clear conclusions that the Republic of Italy must also publish this historical report to raise public awareness on both sides of the border. But, gentlemen, you wanted to prevent this and now it is very difficult to inherit your argument that this is a matter of some honesty, a Slovenian minority in Austria and Italy. We will be very strict about the rights of the Slovenian minority in Italy and Austria, and in this direction we also work all the time, not the Slovenian minority in Austria and Italy to use these methods of cultural struggle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Once again, who wants to explain their voice? Mr Friend, Mrs Lavtizar Bebler, Mr Rop, Mr Bevk, Yuri, Pecan, I will read the applications. Mr Friend, Mrs Lavtizar Bebler, Mr Rop, Mr Juri, Mr Bevk and Mrs Pecan, Mr Lahovnik. Anyone else? Mr. Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! Even in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this topic requires special attention and a special debate in this Chamber, because we are witnessing, not only did Mr Bevk speak, but he was not the only one asking questions to the government, and I also raised a very specific question to the government, which, I hope to receive an answer, we are witnessing both the pressure of Austria and the pressure of Italy and Croatia on Slovenia and the Slovenian minority; in particular, Italy, which is very fascist in this area, should be very critical in this temple and an apology should also be requested from this country. That is why we will be happy to support this proposal, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will, of course, support this conclusion that this National Assembly will have a broader debate on the problems we have recently faced. It is not only a question of reviewing or attempting to revise the history and translation of the interpretation of international legal acts, which have created both the country and the relations between individual countries, and which have also essentially narrowed the borders between these new countries after World War II, but it is also a matter of reviewing the international legal regulation of these issues, which we would also like to see as a stronger position on the part of our government. It is how these two countries, which we will talk about and we will, after all, respect the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, how we respect the European Charter on Minority and Regional Languages and how we see ourselves now that we have become an equal member of the European Union. Indeed, this will be the first such broader debate, if I know it, after Slovenia has become an equal member of the European Union. As for the conclusions referred to by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, if someone tried to block them at the meeting itself, the closed meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I must say that if anyone helped improve these conclusions, as they were presented, then we were members of the LDS and the United List. Such conclusions as he suggested could not be accepted and could be an example to this national assembly, for they were a real succinct one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr. Rop has the floor. Please, only Mr. Rob has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it is only in this discussion that I understand why the meeting of the International Policy Committee was closed. It was apparently closed so that Mr Jerovšek could mislead the public in order to literally lie and do so today. I warned him twice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u188	Mr. Robb has no replica here, and please respect that he won't be able to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u189	If you don't mind, I'd explain why I said it. [[..]] I will tell you why I support the public treatment of this subject, as proposed by Mr Bevk. Also because, on the Committee on International Policy, I have pointed out twice that the meeting of the International Policy Committee, which is closed, is that Slovenia is the successor of the Austrian State Treaty; that such a meeting should be open so that we should tell the Slovenian public, the international public, that Slovenia is an equal partner in international relations, that Slovenia is an equal partner within the European Union, that we hope that we do not need a closed meeting of the International Policy Committee. I've said it twice. I've said it in particular. For the first time, Mr Jerovšek interpreted it similarly, as he did on the Committee on International Policy, and today again. I truly regret such a relationship. The conclusions proposed by the International Policy Committee were also weak and unprepared. We have tried to correct them and it is therefore appropriate to hold a public debate. Finally, on the International Policy Committee, the Minister was present for a quarter of an hour. Then he went away and left the Members and Members alone to discuss things that were in themselves clear, but we did not take the conclusions that we should have. These are conclusions on where Slovenia is today and how it wants to position itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you, President. First, I attach to my colleague Bebler's meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee. It was not correct what the chairman of the committee said today, because the conclusions were almost unanimously adopted and formed by consensus. Thus, from this title, his findings are unjustifiable at the expense of the United List and the Liberal Democrats. The second reason behind this decision is the situation created by the visit of the Secretary of State for Slovenia in place and around the world, Mr Puksic - a resounding visit to Furlania-Julia landscape, at the end of which the assessments of the two umbrella organisations of the Slovenian National Community were very poor. This adds an argument to the fact that we are talking at a public meeting, in particular about the situation of the Slovenian national community and the attitude of this government towards it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must also say that, at the closed meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I have worked very constructively and supported the conclusions proposed by the Committee. Therefore, the findings are completely unfounded. Why did I propose yesterday to discuss the Prime Minister's response to my question? Just because he wasn't in eight or me in five minutes we couldn't open these issues wide enough. After all, in Italy they have been blocking the implementation of the umbrella protection law for 4 years, in Austria they have been questioning the Austrian State Treaty and our legacy, and our minority problems also exist in neighbouring Croatia, even in Hungary. Of course, we cannot avoid discussing the full response of the Prime Minister, as my colleague Školč said, but yesterday I specifically pointed out that I would like to have a discussion in particular with regard to the issue of the Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries. Of course, me and my colleagues in the Group will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u195	I too will support this decision on the debate proposed by Mr Sam Bevk. I would like to say that, especially as a member from another election unit from Primorska, I feel responsible for the Slovenian national community in Italy, not only there, including Austria, Hungary and Croatia. Why? Because it is precisely the integration of areas that are nationalally mixed, it is a tool for us to demonstrate our openness in the European Union and, above all, our tolerance, which is one of the basic characteristics of the Slovenian people. For this reason, I also believe that it is right to point out in this debate in particular the accusation of our immediate neighbours of how we are a genocide, even though we know that relations from the past are upside down. I think it is right to tell the public publicly, loudly and also internationally what our role is in this European Union and what we expect from our immediate neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I was also surprised that the meeting was closed to the public. I think it is also clear from today's implementation why this has been so - that different political manipulations are then more easily carried out that are detrimental to our national interests. We're all in the same boat at this point, we all have to row in the same direction. I think we can all be concerned about the change in the attitude of some important political actors in Italy to the relationship between Slovenian and Italian relations. We can rightly be concerned that we are denied the legacy of a signatory to the Austrian State Treaty; we can rightly be concerned that Slovenia was not on the winning side of forces in World War II. I really wonder, because these eyewitnesses come from the shadow of Karavank, whether the Slovenian partisans should go to Vienna to make that clear to everyone. In short, I think the claims we are witnessing to them today are absurd that this requires a public hearing; I do not know why some are so afraid of it. I think it is right to speak frankly about this, to face our own opinions. Above all, we are a sovereign member of the European Union. I think that the Slovenian government must act accordingly and react when necessary - when the Slovenian national interests are at risk. If she does not do so, she will have to be assisted by the National Assembly, so of course I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We continue with the end of the 5th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. We are moving on to a decision on the draft decision, which reads as follows: The final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003. Anybody want to explain their voice? Testen, Veršnik, Rugelj, Pike, Starman, Ficko. Let me read your hands up, Testen, Versnik, Rugelj, Pike, Starman, Ficko. Did I let anyone go? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Testen has the floor to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Earlier in the debate, it was said that the non-acceptance of the 2003 budget could make credit ratings worse. This is not in my opinion and also in our opinion. The credit rating can be improved to a greater extent, as it is the awareness of the National Assembly that the exercise of the executive power must only be a sign that the Slovenian State is aware that it must ensure that international principles of fiscal transparency are consistently complied with. As early as 2002, the International Monetary Fund pointed out the irregularities in the disclosure of state assets and the irregularities in the presentation of expenditure on the purchase of military equipment in budgetary spending. This information is also available on the IMF’s website. Thank you very much. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. On my part, the fundamental reasons for refusing to accept the accounts for 2003 are as follows. We have insufficient assurance of the correctness of the tax and non-tax revenues. Another time. The budget expenditure has been shown to be too low for the state's already cashed guarantees and for the acquisition of military equipment, financing under the Basic Development Programmes Act. Third time. After the end of 2003 and after 12 years of the existence of a single country, we do not have a real and fair picture of the property managed by the direct budget users, namely ministries and the central state. Fourth time. Many violations of the Public Procurement Act continue. Fifth. The budgetary programmes do not have specific objectives, criteria for measuring programme achievements and do not allow the evaluation or evaluation of programme inefficiencies because they do not provide basic grounds for saving in the field of public spending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u202	Thank you. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Dear Poles, Members of Parliament. This budget, or final budget account, confirms the old rule that paper transfers everything, and unfortunately our citizens are increasingly having difficulty transferring such budgets. Uneconomically, the unintended use of budget money, which was carried out mainly due to lack of control, the situation in the economy, not to mention, is critical due to excessive public spending. Sometimes we hear that some citizen has brought the country around, and now we are becoming increasingly aware that the country has been dragging our citizens around in the past. Of course I won't confirm such a closing account. I'll let those who carried it out confirm it because it was too expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. That we have not accepted this final account so far, it seems to me that I find it deplorable that it should have been adopted some six months ago. A whole bunch of irregularities have been identified, and I'm not going to list them and waste time. I would focus only on the Court of Auditors, which issued an audit opinion with reservation to the 8th Ministry, received a negative audit opinion of two, plus two. Since no one was responsible for the negative audit opinion, of course, I will vote against it without a bad conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members. I will vote against the 2003 budget for the following reasons. Although I do not think that we can change anything back, I think we can influence future decisions on the use of public finances. I have already said that I think 42.7% of public finances are too high in GDP. In addition, I think that debt is unnecessary and excessive. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u208	Please, only Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u209	The structure of the revenue and expenditure of public finances - I do not agree with it either. On the one hand, I think that there are too many direct taxes in the revenue structure, especially the burden of work, which needs to be reduced in the future. Even in the structure of expenditure, certain reserves should be sought in order to make less use of the system itself, but more for investments, for investments. That is why, of course, I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Ficko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I will, of course, vote against the adoption of the final account. A number of reasons were mentioned today. I will limit myself to two, one very specific, one very general. This very specific one concerns the broadcasting world. Today, because of other things, I have sought out the scope of this world and have found that the world pays its prizes according to its rules of procedure or decision, the act of establishment, if members participate in a meeting of the world, belongs to the full reward, if they do not participate or do not meet, but half of the prize. So the award for the week, and this is also in this stack of accounts. The second general reason is that of the elections. The closing account for 2003 and for a number of others in the previous year was expressed by voters in the autumn in the elections. Allow me, my dear fellow, to respect my constituents so much and not to confirm this final account. It also bothers me to consider the final account that the competent authorities of the previous government, with the exception of one minister, did not participate in today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you. I'm asking, does anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr Cwickl and Mr Brenčič have been reported. Did I let anyone go? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you very much. If we want to talk about the final account and identify ourselves with it, we need to start with the budget first. The Slovenian People's Party was an integral part of the government in 2003 with full responsibility to do good for the country and its people. That is why we have also supported the budget, in black terms, with the reservation that the structural budget cut is poorly set aside, it is simply a public sector over-funding in the budget structure. But that was the case, and today it is still about the same. All three Slovenian People's Party ministers have implemented the budget in accordance with the decision we have taken, in accordance with positive legislation, and we have no reservation that we do not support the final account. In order to make the matter even more excusable for us, it must also be said that the 2003 audit report at the Transport Ministry, led by the Minister of the People's Party, gave a positive opinion. That is to say, there is no reasonable explanation that we do not support the final account and I also think that we will not have any more capital with this as a country if we do not accept it, than if we reject it, or if we accept it, I apologize. The Slovenian People's Party will support the final bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr Squeakl has the floor to explain his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I'll explain my voice. I will support the adoption of the 2003 final budget account for the following reasons. The Court of Auditors, whatever anyone thinks about the Court of Auditors, has submitted a positive balance sheet opinion for 2003 because these balances are made in accordance with all the positive legislation and it is not possible to include basic development programmes or anything else without adopting law in this National Assembly. Mr Prime Minister Janez Janša will be able to come to this National Assembly and say, "In 1994, I thought differently, of course, we will now change this and we will put the fundamental development programmes into the 2005 budget balance, as some Members think now." That is to say, a positive opinion on budget balances. And secondly, an opinion with reservations. I must say that the opinion with reservation is given to the execution of the final account for the following reasons, because there are two ministries, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was then led by Dr Dimitrij Rupel, the only previous ministers you have awarded by being a member of the new government, was inadequately implementing the budget for the financing of minorities in neighbouring Italy and in Austria. Also because he carried out certain activities without invitation to tender and therefore received a negative opinion and, in one barracks, they did things wrong in public tendering, so the Court of Auditors gave an opinion with reservation. However, this final account of the State of the Republic of Slovenia and no financial institution of that country will be willing to lend money, at least not at the same prices, if the State says that it does not recognise its own foundations. At least what will happen, Members and Members of Parliament, that the ratings of the Republic of Slovenia will likely be reduced and the costs for citizens will be increased. You're doing this in the National Assembly today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u216	Mr. Squeakle, please finish. Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 40. (The vote was 43. )(against 40.) I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 has been adopted. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance proposes that the Council also adopt the conclusions set out on pages 29 and 30 of the report. Since there were no amendments to the proposed conclusions, we will vote on the conclusions in the package. Anybody want to explain their voice? Anyone else? A bone. Mrs. Shirca? [[No, no, ……]] A bone. Anyone else? Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u217	I will vote against if all seven proposals in the package are put to the vote because I do not agree with the seventh proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u218	If you wanted an individual conclusion to be eliminated, you should submit an amendment. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. 66 votes against 11. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the consideration of the special report on domestic violence - the way to solutions. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation for a special report on domestic violence - the way to solutions. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mrs Širca and Mr Gulič have been reported for explanations of vote. Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you. Regardless of what we have heard in the long debate today about the opinion of those present and what we have not heard about the opinion of those present, it is said that the government is worth listening to and heeding the Ombudsman's recommendation and also following the decision proposed. Anyone who does not - and shows that the government does not want to understand violence or that violence in the family is understood only as part of another violence and does not intend to follow the recommendation that a special law should be adopted, which, by the way, has already been written, which I have also stressed in implementation today. No matter what, there are facts. And the facts say, at least police statistics show that the most murdered women are victims of domestic violence. Whether we have a report by the Ombudsman on the table or not, statistics will still show that the proportion of women victims of crimes of violence is increasing from year to year. And if there was a 29 % share in 1997 it is already a 60% share in 2001. And if in 1997 the proportion of women, victims of public order and peace violations, was only 28%, it is now 42%. In this respect, the Ombudsman's report must be taken with all serious responsibility, not marginalised in the way it has been repeatedly stressed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u221	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support the Ombudsman's report mainly because today's debate has also shown that this is a very important topic. An important topic for those who, of course, supported the report with or without reservation, but also for those who did not agree that it should be dealt with in such a way and segmented by other violence. Surely, domestic violence, not just in Slovenia, is everywhere in the world, one of the things that is somehow original is fundamental. From here also comes a lot of other violence, if not most. Of course, the family here is not only standing up as the one in which violence occurs, but also the one in which violence is very much concealed. And it is certainly the task, including the National Assembly, to open up families with such debates as today's, so that these matters can be seen. To be important within families, not only Eros, as love, but also Agape and Philia as love. Of course, there will be solutions that can then lead to less domestic violence and, of course, outside it. That's why I'm going to support all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you. So that there is no misunderstanding, we do not vote on the report, but on the recommendation made by the working body. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Tremendous, Koren, Ljublšek. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I invite you to support the recommendation, which is very modest in the word, but if the recommendation comes to fruition, it will bring a lot more in dealing with domestic violence. It is very important that we address this problem in a comprehensive manner and that we are aware that it needs to be addressed at national level, that a specific law on the prevention of domestic violence is needed, as we have said, which is already ready and should only be finalized and sent into legal procedure until the end. Above all, it seems important to me that the government is committed to drawing up an inter-departmental coordinated programme to address this issue and to send such a programme to the National Assembly, so that the National Assembly will have the opportunity to make sure that everything we have talked about and think of by the profession, the affected people and the NGOs, is in fact prepared in this law and in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u224	Mr. Root has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will support these recommendations myself because I believe that every violence in the family is too great and difficult for anyone who experiences it. However, I believe that there will also be a debate on the preparation of the law, because I believe that the law itself will not make much difference, but we will have to get to the roots of what leads to this violence. Today, it has already been mentioned that young people have been exposed since they were young and that this violence is increasing, and I am sure that if we do not do something in this area, there will also be more violence in the family. There will be no more violence, but more and more and we must do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Root. Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. I will support the recommendation because I am aware of the problem of violence, not just in the family, but in all of our society. Violence isn't something we're going to ban today, and tomorrow it's gone. By violence, all of us in society began to return to us in one way or another when we began to break out the traditional Slovenian values on which our nation built and stood for centuries. In our society in recent years, it does not appear that anything would be very wrong if power, influence, complacency, complacency, concealment of abuses and major frauds, violent behaviour and violent communication are an integral part of everyday life. Being honest with us means being naive today. On the other hand, extreme social hardships, unemployment, exclusion and irresistibility have necessarily brought violence to our base cell, that is, the family. We have an obligation here to act immediately, for the sake of the children. According to the data, 10 to 15 thousand of them are unoccupied, and the guards don't say anything about it. I will support the recommendation myself, although I cannot agree with the guardian in any way to put the family in a position of origin of violence. Such a guardian’s attitude is totally unacceptable, but as much violence as there is in the family, there is too much and should not be. It shouldn't be in schools, but we're very careful about that. There's no education in our curriculum. The positive values of the Slovenian people must be restored to the place they are going, and this will be so much easier when we are able to respect, listen, and talk again. I believe that the government will do everything to make a difference in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-22-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Ljubeljska. This brings us to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 77 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 3rd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
